ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of Porta's council that Thordd Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "Be absent in the near future. A letter has also been received from Bjarni Jónsson, 4th. Witchest. "that he won't be able to attend a conference soon. So last night, at General 1st, a deputy of Pirata's art in Southvest. " Sjöfn Sjön Helgadóttir, " and 1st Apostle on the left movement's list of green bids in Norway. "Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir have taken their place at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u2	President. For years, there has been an arrangement for dispensing applications for citizens' rights directed to the Generals that they go through the Foreign Institute, which gathers them together with other information and sends them to the General Assembly. But due to the absence of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland to deliver the data, the General and Education Committee requested their delivery to 51 st. the law of the General Assembly, which states that it is a clear obligation for the government to grant this request by a council committee. Has the Agency now shown the disrespect for the council to state that it will not deliver the Council information and information, according to the order of a minister. So I ask the President to protect the respect of the Allied Icelanders and to follow that his government has a legal obligation to provide information and information to the council that has been asked to refer to the Order of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u3	Madam President. This time, the President's conference board is not about criticism of the government, nor is it even about differences between government and government opposition. It seems here that all the committees agree that this is completely unacceptable. That's why I'm saying something. A woman in whom we wish to be made by the president that she will take the lead in this request by the Foreign Institute of England. It was shocking, of course, that this could not happen before Christmas as usual on a regular year's trip, but we were given a good report for getting the data by February 1 so that we could finish it. In other words, I wish that the council and the president will put forth all effort to ask for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u4	A respectable president. I'd very much like to agree with this recommendation. Here's the senators. This is completely unannounced, and in this case, there has been a significant change in the relations of the Committee on Civil Rights and the Ministry. Whether this is a targeted issue of government and Ministers to take this suit is needed. The Parliamentary Commission and members of Parliament who are working to review data regarding the citizenship rights must have access to all data. It is our right and duty to fulfill the role that we have signed, that is an oath to the Constitution. I think it's extremely shocking, but at the same time it's completely consistent and consistent with the way the current government deals with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u5	Madam President. I am obliged to express my blood on the provision of the Foreign Institute for Civil Rights application to the Generals because I was in the General and Education Committee for the last two terms. Then the Ministry's Office repeatedly tried to change the practice; with good or bad, the procedure should be adjusted so that it would not need to be overreached as many applications for the Generals as it did. Now, at the beginning of this election period, the recruits organized largely a pan-European and educational committee. They were led to believe that during the last terms of a change in procedure, the work being done by the Agency has now been decided to do. I'm here, Madam President, to tell you this is a lie. It's a lie to the Foreign Institute that a global and educational committee agreed to the procedure she proposed here in 2018. We never did. Not one member of the council, whether in charge or opposition at that time, agreed that the Foreign Institute of England would ignore its law on civil rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She says she can't approve it. It's like this, though. [[The president calls.]] What is it, Madam President, other than gross disrespect for the Council? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u6	A respectable president. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was here before me, but this isn't some discussion that's new from the needle. When the government refused to give us these records, they pointed to the very fact that there had been a lot of discussions about this with the former committee and gave the impression that this had been achieved by some form of agreement. On the other hand, it is clear that governments alone have decided how the council should behave. They do this because the council has not accepted their wishes for the arrangement. Of course, it's a great disrespect for the Generals. The Department of Foreign Affairs, in their defense, refers to the Ministry, that this is according to the Ministry's orders. When you address the Ministry, it directs you to the Foreign Institute. This is absolutely unacceptable disrespect to the International Assembly of Iceland, and it is necessary for the president to intervene.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u7	A respectable president. Since the creation of the Danish-Sisland Act on November 30, 1918, Iceland has obtained its approved citizens for an Icelandic citizen's right. With law No. The Allied Council of Iceland has had the opportunity to extend citizens' rights to their citizens, but in Article 4. The law says, by permission of the president: It's a law against citizens' rights. Then a husband's wife and their children will go about by 3. And of the unsettling children of a woman after 1st. Gr., unless the law says otherwise. It may be just out - of - date. But this has almost every year taken advantage of the General for over 100 years. This important tradition is now being abolished, not by the legislature, but by an institution that has repeatedly shown that it ignores the law given by the Council and the general human rights of those under it. [[The president calls.]] This is a perfect opportunity to change the Board of Directors, the Ministry that stops all over the Foreign Institute, and lay down this institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u8	Madam President. I agree with what's been going on here. But we're doing the law here, we're supposed to do it. Six. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights states that the Council is legally entitled to national rights. Prior to giving the application to the General Assembly for Civil Rights, the National Institute of Iceland shall be given the authority given by a police officer at a local dwelling site and also a review of the application by the National Institute of Iceland. That's it. Madam President. It has happened in recent years that the change has been in shape with the application for citizen's rights. I can talk from experience because I was helping people with these applications. In the past, not so many years ago, the applications sent directly to the General Assembly for Civil Rights at the time of the Council. This whole thing is going on through this agency that is passing out applications and will not be granted the request of the general public who are applying for it, does not provide any information on actual candidates. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that now that we have an opinion of this and change this order, we're not getting any better. We're the guys in charge here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u9	President. I just come up to join those who have spoken. What this is about is that it says that the National Institute of Foreign Affairs is that they have orders from the Ministry and Minister, the Minister is responsible for this Ministry, to perform the evidence in a way that they do not respond to the petition of the council and members of the council to obtain the necessary data in order to carry out their legal duties. The Ministry's answer seems to be, "No, we didn't give any orders. Of course, this is a very crazy situation, and this discussion about a meeting board is about us asking the President to enter and speak the council case and help us to ensure that the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland, and that the Ministry is acting for it, if at any time, at the request of the General Assembly, and bring the evidence needed to carry out its duties, that the Agency follows the law so that the Council can perform its legal role. [[The president calls.]] It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u10	A respectable president. Now I have to join my comrades in the opposition of this case. I don't think it's a good idea. There's a law here, and after that we should leave. I have been on the Subcommittee to discuss such matters, i.e. Civil rights, and as we've seen here, there's been an attempt to change the process. This may need to be adjusted, but this does not happen in the Ministry of Justice. This is what happens in the affairs of the council. And that's why it's going to be the highest. Minister of Justice is part of the fact that the Council gets these data to complete its work. Whether the minister wants to follow some conversation about changing the project is just another matter. The law is like this today, and it's time to go. This is completely incorrigibly incredulous... I'm sorry, I was going to say something a little ugly. We cannot be treated this way by the executives. There is nothing to do with this in the legal process and the following work at the General Assembly. So, at the highest. The Minister of Justice will be involved in our obtaining these data. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u11	Madam President. I come here to agree with what has been said here. That's no good, of course. And that we, on the General and Education Committee, who are on the Subcommittee, are waiting for information as long as this circle's space between the Bureau and the Ministry, where each one points to another, is breaking up. I'd like to remind you that the rules were on the website of the Foreign Institute to October 1st. Candidates pay for these applications, which should be referred to the Generals. Therefore, these laws must be followed. It is natural that an institution or a Ministry will one - sided change these rules of action. I'm also going to add to the fact that I'm sure there are many of us who agree that the management has to change. She's not great as she is. But this will not be done by a one - sided decision. It doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u12	President. This is a matter of reasonableness. We'll set up a law here at a council on a very complicated subject, a public rights act. We don't see all the peripheral cases, any circumstances that come from, that can meet the requirements of legitimate and reasonable application for citizen's rights. Therefore, this emergency system is passed by the council: But this situation, is it appropriate for the person who applies, although they do not fit into the system as it is installed? And to ask the council about this, as we noted earlier, the city pays $25,000. However, the Senate does not receive the applications. What kind of bullshit is that? It's like the highest. The secretary of finance spoke of last night in Kashlight, we have laws that will only be followed. Although that was the case, it was just as valid a law. We are having the right to seek out the language that we have given to this law in order to try to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u13	A respectable president. A foreign agency operates under the law established by the General Assembly. If we don't have the law and accept the procedure, we'll hear it at the highest level. Minister of Justice, Jón Gunnarsson, to act. He has a management and surveillance duty to the Foreign Institute. I'm glad to hear left-green senators agree with this, of course, and would like to hear the same sort of presentation from the forward party members as the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u14	A respectable president. I'm not going to get involved in a lot of talk about things that are obvious. Of course, the council has a right to receive data that is legally valid. On the other hand, I'm going to draw attention to another of this general case, which I feel is a great lack of being accepted into this discussion here, which is, of course, that it is completely unnatural how much the citizen's rights rate is conducted by the Council of State. It gives us reason to look at the law for ourselves. If the legislature of the legislative legislature is required by the legislature of the legislature in Iceland, the law is to be changed, not to be revised here at the council on the issues that have received a negative payment by the Court on the laws established by the General Assembly itself, that all the refusals need to come to the council because the council intend to review why things have not been paid. In some cases, we have been talking about in another hundred citizens' rights, with a law perfectly abnormal, because the intervention of the legislature over national rights must always be an exception. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u15	At this point in the discussion, the president will make it known that it will promote a conversation between the Council and the Executive Director on this matter as discussed here, the communications between the National Institute of Iceland and the World Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u16	Madam President. We've got a bill on citizens' rights. On the one hand, it has a administrative decision in the Foreign Institute and on the other, by law. Those applicants who post their resignations to the Generals do so because they do not meet the criteria for granting citizen's rights by a administrative decision. For this reason there may be many reasons; lack of national identification, lack of reading ability, not being able to read and therefore go through the Icelandic exam, those who have lost their citizenship but who have failed to meet conditions for living, etc. This is an emergency at the hands of the Allied Council. It is necessary and should not be changed. That's about 25 applications a year, and I don't think we're too good to do that. [[The president calls.]] I propose that the Council changes the arrangement for this condition, advertisements for applications, published ads that candidates waiting between hope and fear send their applications directly to the Generals for this information. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u17	Madam President. V.E.G. A financial minister said that there was an abnormal situation, and then I thought we would agree suddenly because there is an abnormal world situation. There's never been more people on the run. This is one of the main reasons why no more people have ever had to go directly to the General Assembly for Civil Rights to the narrow conditions that law on foreigners is because refugees do not necessarily have their birth certificate with them when they flee war and conflict and come to Iceland. But, no, I guess it wasn't the approach at the top. Rather, how could one bus as much as possible to the U.S. National Institute of Iceland, which has shown this in its work on these matters that it cannot be trusted? It's just that simple. In the name of a good team, we agreed to postpone citizenship until the New Year's Eve by Christmas. What do we get in return from the Foreign Institute? That she's still going to pull her feet. She collects $25,000. of whom the candidate is. [[The president calls.]] Another hundred people applied for Christmas. [[The president calls.]] It is 3 million that the Icelandic state had of people entitled to pay them nod from the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]] If the Minister is going to join the General for a team, he's going to get right to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u18	A respectable president. This is part of a bigger problem, which is that the Foreign Institute at times seems to act like some kind of state in the state. An example of this is when the Court's right of international protection is violated and even deliberately, as the Commission of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly had to point out. What has been the response of the European Commission to that effect, i.e. how the Minister of Foreign Affairs has handled the management and surveillance obligations to the foreign administration in Iceland? Nobody really does. It's just that way. Here is another example of this: the Agency behaves as some kind of state, somehow thinking that they reject the laws and rules and procedures of the country, and that it is legal. I think this, like so many other things, must be a reminder that this system needs to be revised from scratch and the laws and rules of the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u19	Madam President. I have to say, as I mentioned earlier, that the U.S. National Institute of Iceland is to betray the trust of the Generals where she promised before the New Year's Day convention to bring these data to the council. Therefore, once again, I say, the master of the jury will be involved, obviously, that the evidence will bring it back. Happily, there are many who wish to become Icelandic citizens. We're supposed to celebrate. And as we have also seen here, changed conditions in the world are not without reason that people are applying for land permit or civil rights. We need to do even better than we have done, and it is very important that the minister of justice is able to act effectively and intervene in this matter and that he does so even now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u20	The president wants to draw attention to the fact that the non-prepared period of inquiry can last longer than the Senate allows for up to six queries to come in. As answers are: Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Department of Foreign and Development Ministers of Social Affairs and Employment Ministers and Foreign Affairs, Business and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u21	A respectable president. The design of the fishing policy of the government classes over the past four years is shown in a higher payment on the owners of the marine courts, much higher than they paid for the government in hunting expenses. Then, in fact, there is another film these days that affects the share of little boat sailors. Let us also bear in mind that the Kingdom will then provide all the services associated with the development of the Merro, the guards and the Fish Room. The code system, well marked, was at its time important, and it was an essential step for economic and sustainable fishing. Would the restoration want to overthrow the system? No, but we want to change, definitely, because the system needs an update for the nation, which in its case, is totally disproportionate about the privacy of the resource. We need a set of resources in a constitution that underscores the unprovable right of the nation's rights with temporary agreements, not persistent, undefined rights, as the governments would like. We need a market route on fishing roads as much as 90% of the people would like to do in order to ensure its share. The people do not trust this axis of the government to estimate the price of hunting because this is nothing but their axis. We know that a High Vessel Minister is about to appoint a committee. All right. We don't know how she's going to be organized. All we know is that there is one constant, and SFS is definitely on the committee. But what is the minister's opinion? After the 2016 election, she was not a noncongent member of a tripolitic committee, which she was in for her own election, and she is now only falling over me by the heavens. So I would like to ask, first of all, Will a minister take advantage of a market route on a fishing road? Second, will she take advantage of temporary contracts, such as her approach to the Parapolitic Controversy in 2017? And third, what's the Minister's opinion on the system? When it comes to the fishing of the nation's resources, where will she use changes in behalf of the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I've been in the office of the seafaring and agricultural ministers, future food ministers, seven weeks and years. A senator was in that office a few years ago for several months. That is correct, which is expressed in the word. The senator, the one listed here on a committee intended to review the arrangement, the fishing system, and provide suggestions for improvement. I didn't have time to do it at the time, but the viewpoints I held out at that table are the viewpoints I still think of and will do, including. attitudes that did not go very high at the table in the Committee, which is the requirement for resource requirements in the constitution. That was my position then, and it is still important that this law be in the basic administration of the state of England, so that it is absolutely clear on what it rests. My expectations are that we can agree on certain changes that specifically depend on increasing the transparency of the marine business, and especially the largest of our corporations, because the compression that has taken place is not fair. It is not righteous, and it is not in harmony with society's expectations of how this sector should be placed. We also need to assess the results of sectoral and coastal fishing. We need to see if the arrangement that had actually established in the history of the left green in the ocean - eutrophication department has really supported the economy in the region.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u23	A respectable president. With all due respect, it doesn't matter how long a minister is in the government, he always has an opinion on the case. It is important that we learn what is the highest opinion. Ministers are on it. And a good sign of transparency, I'm asking the Minister to look at the bill given to the restoration and others through transparency in the sea exits and the demand for scattered property and more. There's no such thing. Other than that, it seems only to me to be about some sort of subspecies, to some extent, for the government to hold together, because the premise for righteous changes is exactly the categories of government by no means. A senator and secretary of the left green in spite of the minister's excellent plans for any change. We only saw this the last time we discussed the resource rules in a constitution during the last terms. When discussing the fishing arrangements, the system was not allowed to be altered and the system was more complicated and unconcerned. Then, in terms of the good report on the property ties of the Icelandic industry, these unprecedented forms of the government's cover-up game. [[The president calls.]] So I'm just saying, why don't we put our people first when we look at the changes in the fishing system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u24	A respectable president. I've never been particularly concerned with the fact that the market is the way to solve all problems. That's probably what we think, me and what. In Icelandic politics, a senator who keeps right - handedly thinking that marketing solutions are usually the right way. [[Up front.]] I think it's very important that we are primarily guided by the overall interest in society, and not only the settlements of the country, but also the environmental issues. The sustainable use of the resources and international interests of Iceland in terms of the oceans, whether of the environment, the innovation or the foreign policy, are very important factors and will become the basis of my decisions in this Ministry. I trust I have a good wish from what I wish. A senator and chairman of the Relations on that project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u25	Madam President. It's a decision of the highest order. In many parts of the country, a ocean - fishing minister for cutting down the cod warrants of a beach fishing boat by 15% during a summer's arrival has understandably led to disappointment. In some way, when a person has to be restricted, he suffers from those who have the least room to cope with it. We know that the Coastal Fishing System, the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and then the seafaring minister, Jón Bjarnason's son, has set in motion to counteract sea fishing compression and have been a success of community development. Coastal fishing over the summer has guaranteed the development of hundreds of small boats that have been left in dozens of TVs all over the country. Let us not forget that one of the objectives of fishing management is to protect the entire country's population. Coastal fishermen in certain areas now focus on unemployment during the summer. It's just that there's a lot of resources that could run out before they reach their sites, just like the system's built up. Both are unfair and unreasonable. So it seems that the pointy left greener in the northwestern district has publicly expressed itself on this decision and said that it needs to be corrected. This decision has also been concluded in a group of members of the Left Green in Skavegur. So I ask the highest. A marine minister, whether to make adjustments in the rules for the disposition of the Coastal Guard to revise this decision and to be more reasonable in how it affects the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u26	A respectable president. The opening point in our system is always that we do not exceed the scientific advice of the Institute for Research. It's the stinger we want to cut ourselves and the end point we want to put off, the one who is there in decision making. When it comes to counseling the Agency's Institute of Geological Research, in the summer, I'll be the minister of the jury, having to make a decision about the maximum level of cod on that basis. They had already made other decisions, so I come to make the decisions that still existed on the table. Then the maximum power in cod decreased by 13% and because I lay down scientific advice, this arrangement had to be changed. It was not possible to change the arrangement into shell and shrimp improvements, nor was it possible to say goodbye to the graffiti where they were distributed on a ship at the beginning of the fishing year in September. What remained was the factors that were decided to suffer from impairment, one of which was the coastal fishing and the groundfarmer. Here I am faced with having to do this in order to fall under the Red Sea, but at the same time, it is good to think that the exchange markets in several other species are going to take place in the weeks and months and so hopefully, and so hopefully, it will probably create space to add to the beach fishing pool because, like previous ministers in my office, who have come from my left movement a green offer, are expected to have plenty of coastal fishing activity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u27	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. She put it as if one choice had been to cut down the thirst warrants of those who suffer the impairment. I'm going to allow myself to disagree because little boatmen can handle the impairments best, and that even comes from them. Whether or not the rules are available or not. We have one pot, and many chambers, and the cod is a path west and north for the land in the spring and summer. Isn't it possible to get to the top? Will a minister seriously consider changing the rules so that when it comes to chambers in the north or north or east parts of the country, there will not be any improvement in summer and its sources? In this, there is no fairness. There is no regional policy in this. There must be a way to find solutions to what may be available and to ensure reasonable intervention in the next summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u28	A respectable president. To be said at the outset, it was an unfortunate word for me to talk about putting up with a child. It was not my meaning at all but much more that I was faced with having to wear it where it was over my head, since it wasn't already made decisions that could not be undone. Thus, a reduction of 15% and 20% of the agricultural population in agriculture and rural areas, respectively, was observed. The markets that are yet to occur will hopefully be able to add to the coastal fishing pool so that the final result will be less than this 15% change. Of course, it is very difficult to determine what is usually needed to get one. And when we're talking about this part of the system, it's fact that in recent years we've also had to stop fishing before the season was over because we're under the roof where Vero's advisers put us. However, in line with a government contract and surely a huge need, I intend to examine in detail how this part of the fishing system is being used in the interests of jobs and settlements in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u29	Madam President. During the last Thursday, I asked the highest degree of a public report by a health minister. Ministers on different approachs on cross-border screening and within the country. Then I asked if there was a possibility that many people, likely in the fourth thousand, might be in solitary confinement. By screening tourists on the border, it was found that a large proportion of identified individuals did not have active infections. Numbers indicate that this was true of about one quarter of those diagnosed in the border. Other figures suggest that within the country this percentage could be closer to one third. The screening within the country has not made a distinction between active and inactive infections but has put everyone under the same hat that has been passed on to all diagnosed persons in isolation. I asked the highest. The minister of why this scientific approach would have been applied, not within the country, but only on the border. In reply, the highest. Ministers in that 200 staff at the Land Hospital were in solitary confinement and unable to do their job. Of these, there are probably 50 to 70 people under house arrest who are unjustly infected, the proportion of old ones being infected by the same group as on the border. When I'm at the highest. In view of this, I assumed that on Friday, a health minister would identify the staff of the hospital who are in solitary confinement. It comes as a surprise, then, that there are still 200 staff of the Land Hospital in solitary confinement based on information on the Land Hospital's website just in this case, on the fifth day after the minister said that he would look for information and explain it. V.E.G. So, Minister, I have to ask, hasn't this been examined in the five days? Could it be that there are still 45,000 people in isolation without active infection? Could it still be that 50 to 70 staff of the Land Hospital are in solitary confinement because of old inactivity, employees who could not infect others even if they wanted to? V.E.G. Minister, can this be?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry, and we had this conversation here in the report to the health secretary on the status and outlook of the epidemic. Hv. A senator brought up effective and passive transmission numbers and differences between national and national numbers. I haven't got it confirmed, so I say it here and now. But thus, if you get sick and are screened by Covid-19 you will go to solitary and graduate, if you are asymptomatic, within seven days. I suppose that's why these 200 employees are in isolation. But I haven't had any confirmed figures of it yet. A senator comes out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u31	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It's just that I can't believe that it's not been examined in any of these five days. Keep in mind that the National Hospital is in an emergency because of my design. The private sector is being picked up from here to the private sector to save cases in corners, to hire rescue teams to sit across and through the streets, and possibly 50 to 70 staff of the Land Hospital in isolation by an old, passive infection. And this is not even examined. It's just unbelievable. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister: Is he going to approach this in the same way and not even let it be known if it can be true that 50 to 70 staff of the Land Hospital are in an inactive house arrest? I just can't believe it, as the situation is now, with the Hospital in an emergency range, and with people from the private sector, from now on, from the city. My second question is, will be the highest. Minister to have this checked out?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u32	V.E.G. President. Here's where it puts it. A senator argues that there may be a quarter of the contaminating virus that reveals on the border and applies it here to those in isolation, and then to the 200 nonstop workers at the Land Hospital. This theory has not been challenged or confirmed, that's what I said here in my first answer. However, this does not change the fact that we have had a very varied operation with the land hospital to cope with design, which has been very successful. [[Up front.]] So it cannot be associated with the fact that we have not been able to deal with the situation at the hospital. It is so that we can cope with the extra burden of caring for those who are Covid infected in the hospital. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u33	A respectable president. I have a request similar to this one about the miniboat system or the beach fishing. It has to do with the Minister's decision on the Regulation change since December 23, where he reduced cod warrants for coastal fishing about 1,500 tons. I think it's time to review the campaign in the northwestern state. The only thing that had been offered in that district was to promote the coastal fishing, to make good for the coastal fishing. It was really the only thing on the table there. About 1,900 voters chose them and got to hear it now, and that is a fact now, that the first act was at the highest. A sea - fishing minister is cutting down clearances to shore fishing about 1,500 tons. It's gonna be a lot for the beach fishing. I just can't believe it. I can't believe it yet. It's a clean, smart betrayal of voters in the Northwestern district, just let's be clear about it, and it's also an illusion. The problem is to tell voters in the election campaign last fall that they intend to promote coastal fishing on Iceland's shores, the betrayal of regulations, to make it absolutely clear. Coastal fishing has proved to be very effective, although small, in the scattered sea. These are highly environmentally friendly fishing and have prevented compression and overcome compression as high as possible. A seafaring minister commented on here just before it was important to prevent it. They have ensured and prevented a wide variety of water exports. It has also been an opportunity for young people to start fishing. The question is, a lot of the world's greatest. On December 23 of this year, was the minister of ocean correcting the cutoff of cod warrants for a beach fishing that the minister decided by a decree change of December 23 and a total of 1,500 tons?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Just so we keep the facts in place, this year's distribution is an average of over ten years. It's wrong to talk about some change of direction here. As a result, cod fishing was reduced by over 40,000 tons. That's a fact. And to put it all together and put it in context, the last 12 years have been 3.4% of codfish catchers averaged out to shore fishing. This year the proportion is 3.8%. The general limit of labour rights affects everyone, affects the whole system. It is not proper to argue that the beaches are being cut down in particular. It is a fishing counsel in my cod, and much less so. A respectable president. However, there is a higher proportion of beach fishing than average in the last 12 years, and that is a fact. We had hoped that the market had given more in recent years than expected, so we had to respond to the situation the way it looks. But it is proper to maintain that markets in several other species will take place, as has been previously attributed, and this will likely give room for improvement in the coastal fishing pool. But to argue that a change in policy was made and to argue that this is a lower proportion to coastal fishing than previously was simply wrong. And I'm waiting. A senator is sticking to facts in his inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u35	A respectable president. I'll stick to the facts. The fact is, the highest order change. On December 23, the early minister reduced cod warrants to about 1,500 tons. That's a fact, 1,500 tons. Last night, the Senator of the Left Green in the Northwestern District said that he was expecting this decision to be corrected. The question is, Will a minister correct this decision or not? It's a yes or no question, pretty much. Let's just talk about the fish stocks. Coastal fishing with Icelanders do not threaten fish stocks. If we look at the relative views behind the problem of beach fishing, we should be at a moderate point in telling us that they should be truly free. That's what this is about. They don't threaten fish stocks. And to talk about some general decrease or claim that these 1,500 tons of fish will save Iceland's fish stocks is only funny. Everybody knows that. [[The president calls.]] And another thing about this exchange of furs, it's one of the biggest cocks I've ever had. [[The president calls.]] It divided 35,000 tons of hairy for 3,000 tons of cod. [[The president calls.]] That's at home with the competitive authorities, and I hope that investigation will begin soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u36	A respectable president. Tonn of cod is a ton of cod, no matter where it is given, and no matter what system it is provided. That's it. I will not compromise as a minister of the seafood industry on the basis of scientific advice on the use of fish stocks. That's what I'm going to do, because it's a prerequisite for higher trades to rise above heads, both for coastal fishing and for other people in the seaside. To me, it's very simple: what's good for fish stocks is good for Iceland. What's good for fish is good for society. I, however, completely agree with the basic reasons for setting up the coastal fishing system in my time. It was thought of giving those who do not have the means to experiment in the fishing and to increase innovation. The industry has always been under the same law as other fish in Iceland, and so it is that fish stocks will be used responsibly. As a result, I will continue to exist as well as to support employment in scattered areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u37	President. In 2021, there was a license to catch 10,000 tons of cod in the coastal fishing system, some 750 tons less than that given in 2020, but it had been increasing from year to year. However, for this year, the capacity of the coastal fishing system is to be moved down to that as it was in 2016, a 20% reduction actually from 2020. Last year, on August 20, fishing for the decline of the year before the last year, coastal fishing will be completed on July 21st of this year. Then, more than a month of a four - month fishing season disappears. The situation in the fishing road is very strange. According to the law, a maximum resources section is set up that no enterprise or linked party may cross. Yet it does. The nation's income of the sea resources is, on average, 500 million a year at expense, while the profit of marine commodities has been about 40 billion per year over the past decade. If aquifers are looked at, it is about 9 billion a year, 18 times the profit of the nation. Above all, the UN Human Rights Committee concludes that the current distribution of fishing warrants violates 26 degrees. International Convention on Civil and Political Rights on Equal Opportunities for All People So my questions to ministers are very simple. On the one hand: Wouldn't it be a choice to assign the resources that some companies have beyond legal authority to shore fishing instead? Why can we give these companies that they don't have the right to get? However, is it, in view of the minister's response, the Minister's intention to put the change in the enteric system in this terms? Are they just salted because of the collective groups? And then it's just a violation of the human rights system that's headed for the VG?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. The question and the brief answer are no, of course. Actually, I don't quite understand why. A senator when he goes here a lot and says I'm going to put down all the changes, etc. Now, I'd like to refer to the fact that I've been speaking very clearly that there's a need to make changes in the system. I have made it very clear that there is a key element that needs to be placed in the context of a social agreement with the resource, in terms of the economic situation of the article, and especially on conflict days. It's important. However, we need to examine how we treat these matters in relation to the countries around us, what the system has done, and what has not worked. That's what I'm supposed to do, and what I've become involved in doing by settling in the office of a marine eco-efficiency minister, laying the basis for more than one factor in increasing the transparency of companies in marine areas and especially among the largest companies. That's what we have to do. We must maximise our potential for further success and for greater social reconciliation on the basis of this article. I know that there are, as I say, optimistic predictions that there is something that can be done, but I know that the Council has handled complex projects, to form in terms of pandemics and economics in the time of crisis. It's one of the cornerstones of Icelandic employment and currency institutions, so it's very important that we attempt to achieve a better sync than we ever could. [[The president calls.]] I expect that. A senator realized where I'm coming from in my approach to that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u39	President. No, that was a good answer. I welcome that answer as the highest. I'm gonna give you a seafaring minister here. But the reason I ask is exactly the team of colleagues, that's just the way it is. We know exactly that the cryonics don't allow such talk to go into Congress. It's been that way for years, always, and if the VG doesn't want to be a quota group, I look forward to seeing a bill at the highest level. Secretary of the sea. This could, for example. had a case similar to that of the pregnancy crisis that came in here at council and votes were paid across the government and across classes; a case adopted by the Council was a major part of that matter despite government cooperation. We need more cases to finish these big cases, which some categories simply hold hostage, with their smaller parts, just because they're in the government. We need to get rid of such unscrupulous practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u40	A respectable president. I don't know what else I have to add but that I assure you. There is no particular concern for the left movement for the concept of the cry system. I want to agree with that as well. One senator says, I think that we could all approach things more often, so we wouldn't be too preoccupied with things that are written in more things or smaller than the arrival of a government. I think that we could often work things out successfully so that the decision of Congress could actually reflect currents and policies in the community debate, but nothing necessarily predates a definite result of a government conference. So I'm in the prince's mood, or the principle, a respectable president, completely agree with that approach. [[Up front.]] I think it's an important reminder, as earlier was being discussed with the President, for all of us, every day to maintain that ministers are only represented by the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u41	A respectable president. I want to be like the rest of my fellow council members to the highest level of questions. Marine and agricultural ministers and wishes to make a success of their work. A great deal of work was put in the coastal, transnational, professional committee during the last term, led by the left green, to change the system to justice, to equality, and to the safety of sailors, to provide additional resources, and to ensure 48 days. All that was left was to ensure flexibility in the 5.3% system and ensure 48 days to the coastal seas, which are one of the most environmentally friendly fishing teams, with hand tools. The UN speaks of this year being a year of sustainableity and what is more sustainable than hand fishing on Iceland's coasts? Last year, in a coastal fishing game, more than 11,000 tons were caught and wiped out on August 18. Today, there are only 8,500 tons to be expected to run out in mid - July. Then I don't think that there will be much change for the best-fishing boats with the greatest fishing in the North and East. Then there will be an appeal to change the system that has been established during the last terms to the former prospects and to replace the resources, as a cloth and a plate, into areas of the land. It's not good, and it'd detune the system. I challenge it to the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers looking all the ways to ensure coastal fishing this summer. I will submit a bill that measures the possibility of reassigning resources from this system, 5.3%, to this year to ensure coastal fishing. This is possible, and it is within the bounds of a fictitious policy that the Oceanographic Institute depends on in the distribution of resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We are still in the same area as I have been here in previous answers. I agree that sustainability is a fundamental concept and ideologies of resource utilisation. No matter what resources are involved. Self-sustaining is always about the fact that we take on more scientific advice. We cannot do so at times or at times, but we need to face the fact that all hunting of the land must be under this law and that a sea emissary, no matter where he or she comes from, cannot choose when scientific counseling is taking place and when it is not. I just want to mention this because it is now only a short time since I was standing here and then in a different role and position, and I strongly proposed that science, research, and the best possible knowledge of the times was always the basis for decision making. I haven't changed my mind, and it's not and will never be sustainable to hunt beyond counseling. That's a basic thought. Fishing in harmony with counseling is a basis for us to increase fishing later because it supports the growth of our institutions. But I'd like to say, too, because of what. A senator here gives the main theme of environmental management and is, in fact, this environmental theme, and because we are often talking about energy exchange in our community and our climate targets, it is very important that the marine road is in order to achieve the aims of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This, in fact, is a requirement for us to reach the goal of the fishing route and to take part in the large community work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. What I'm doing here and on my case doesn't have to go against the scientific counseling of the National Institute of Research. There are ways and we know it, people in this room, members of the council in this room, that sources have been transferred between fishing years, and they have not been considered contrary to scientific advice. Superficial types have been doing this and have been allowed to do it repeatedly, and by species transfer is being done between years of age. Preservations can be transferred from year to year to ensure coastal fishing. Will is all it takes. And for further reviews and reports, the employment committee had a cool assessment of the cohesion of coastal fishing during the last available term, a very good assessment by the Based Office. It is not always necessary to make constant reports about the same things but to make good use of the work that has been done. It has been shown that coastal fishing has provided a number of major employment and management services in the coastal areas of the country. [[The president calls.]] There was a country in 51 different townsmates last year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the encouragement to me in my office and other members of the council who have taken up the matter of beach fishing. I can see that in the discussion that has been in the question period, it's a matter that affects us a lot, just because there is a matter of justice at the very heart. It is on the basis of discussing that we are giving more people an opportunity to share in the construction and building up the settlements of the land. That's the main thought, that's the main approach. This was important in its time, in 2009, and will remain important. It cannot be overlooked, however, that the fishing council has not been lower for cod seven or eight years, until today, and it has a powerful effect, that's just a fact. I accept encouragement from whom. The senator, in effect, looks to the summarys and reports made here and lies because my heart is beating there and I want to work on it. [[The president calls.]] However, there is still absolutely no question that the Marine Council is the basis for my decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u45	A respectable president. Government support measures to reduce the economic impact of the pandemic have no equal advantage in Iceland. Support is clearly shown, including At 527 billion bucks. lay down the state funds for the last two years and the budgets that account for 186 billion. leaning this year. The Hall shows beyond any doubt that we have done more than less to support homes and businesses, as we said we were going to do everything from the beginning. Intimidation, however, is not a cause for rejoicing. Of course, the real standard for the results of the operation is the community. Despite economic difficulties, the provision of people's income has increased, and commercial resources have never been greater, especially in those earners of income. The number of jobs has increased rapidly, and failures are no more than expected during the usual year. In contrast to what has happened in many other places, the epidemic has not led to an increase in income production in the economy of one of the largest income balances in the developed world. There have been few things in history, with the resulting lower pay load in the country, and in moderation the inflation has been maintained. In particular, the next step is to maintain that stability. The effect of the Covid arrangements on state funds, except for 215 billion dollars. between 2020 and 2021. More than 75 billion have been offered government insurance and tax returns. About 50 billion bucks. has gone to the tourist service, of which direct support is available for the restaurant sector about 11 billion dollars. We expect nearly 2 billion dollars. This is now being added in the first few months of the year, to the levels of restaurants that are being discussed here at the General Assembly, and to the close - ups that have been approved by the government. It may then be estimated that the cost of extension of the general employment industry now being offered for the same period could be up to 2 billion. about 500 million. K. the month before December, January, and March. Business operations have been varied and have taken into account the need for society. So went 28 billion in sharebacks, and already nearly 10 billion have been included in a number of recruitment grants. At the most, over 8,600 business relationships were thus supported by government funds. Today, the situation is much different, unemployment has remained below 5% in the past three months, and demand for employment has increased dramatically. In addition, the budget has paid about 25 billion in income stocks, stock markets, and closure grants to some 3,500 companies. These funding have especially been used in addition to those who were unable to perform various personal services in the early stages of the epidemic, whether by physical therapy, hair salons, or exercise stations. In 2020 the support efforts of the State Fund played a key role in the failure of the contractions, and the ability to resist was as great as it was in 2021. It is a challenge to note how national expenditures in Iceland were slightly combined in international comparison and the quality of private consumption. At the same time, strong economic benefits have resulted in normal reductions in the application of the resources. In the opinion of Sighvatsson Sighölton, former assistant bank manager, of the government's economic initiatives, it is reasonable to conclude that the government's support measures in homes and businesses have succeeded in making good and a small reduction in national spending indicate that their support has not been large, as it says. The views of international food companies, OECD and the World Bank payoffs are the same. The importance of Iceland's good status for the epidemic has been specifically highlighted in these estimates. Thus, the result was based on a solid basis for responsible economic management over the past few years. The present challenge is to trust the foundation again so that we can cope with the unexpected events of the future. How well it goes is principally up to us. It is important that we do not expose the fire of inflation and economic instability with the cry of unremarkable action now, when the situation is anything but at the beginning of the pandemic. In other words, it is more and more important not to be overly busy, just as it was originally important to do quite enough. In view of the limitations of the specific activities and effects of the current wave these weeks, I feel absolutely justified in continuing to act on specific and temporary support. So we've presented the continuation of local pay and special support to caterers, as I've been here, but this operation has suffered great restrictions on opening time and number of guests. Also, close-up grants will remain loyal to the person who has been made to lock up his activities, and this morning I introduced to the government to provide a bill for the continuation of the general employment industry. This will help those who need support for a certain period of time and not to the extent of upset stability. However, further overall support without comparable revenue would be little more than to raise inflation and thus increase. As the efficiency of the economy grows again, financial wealth must be built and the growth of public debt has to be stopped. This is essential for us to meet future challenges. The most important economic action now involves creating soils for further growth in the economy. The worldwide epidemic has been a precious reminder of the importance of the wide variety of economic foundations, and we should continue to press ahead. During the past few years, innovation and thinking industry have grown rapidly and can truly be said to be a fourth support for the Icelandic economy. There and elsewhere, especially in the traditional branches, are opportunities for further growth in the years to come. In this spirit, we do not only add more money to important issues, such as health and welfare issues in the budgets of the year, but we also add large sums of money to further research and development costs to build for the future, the creation of valuable jobs in the coming years and decades. A respectable president. We have a good story to tell in the economy last year, despite extreme uncertainty, especially at the beginning of the epidemic. We have not been so sure that in the past few weeks, we have only been seeing new variants, and we have just come to the conclusion that the rate and impact of new viral strains are. Today, the health minister is presenting changes to the treatment protocols. This shows how warm the environment is, and in view of all of this, I'd like to say that we've done an extremely successful economic level of action in line with the situation at a time. Despite all of this, bright eyes can be seen for the years to come, despite this tremendous battle, because we have gained a solid foundation for the powerful resistance of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u46	Madam President. It's right next to the highest. Minister that we have undergone major counter-importation operations, and we in the United States have largely supported and paid for, even taken action. The cutback route of history back to 2009 or 2008, I think. But to some extent, there is a better situation here today because researchers also did not foresee what consumer behavior would be like. But let's not minimize the operation. One minister rightly stated that there is need to be a problem in what action is being carried out and which is not. He put it, I think, so not to overdo and meant not to fantasize and inflation if I get it right. I think you're absolutely right. As a result, I would like to ask if the highest. One minister believes that the expansion of the work, which may cost about 8 billion dollars, may be subject to such unnecessary stimulation to jobs that do not require and unnecessary consumption of the public, whether it would have been closer to using this money to ease with the real problems and even to those people and groups who are in real trouble to increase the likelihood that all are in the best place when we finish this struggle and to maintain some sort of healthy balance between these services. Should we have spent that money differently?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u47	A respectable president. I'll be happy to report that putting these measures together has been a bit of a challenge. Even though we've been going through this since November, when we were laying out the final budget for the coming years, it's only today that I make the latest suggestions. What's going on here is that we saw a tremendous decrease in demand for most resources as we passed on in 2021, and we realized that the need for most of the counsel would be removed, and it would be good if we were to live with the length of time. Then the winds turn. We have a new variant, and it becomes necessary to go back to a time of opening. The first obvious reaction was to say: Those who are seen on the meeting limit in particular, we will begin by supporting them. So, there's the ideas of the caterer's special support. Thereafter, we followed up on the closing strengths, and shortly thereafter we saw the need to distribute public pay of the first part of the year to the latter part of the year, as it has been determined. We've really just been looking at the practical data right up to this day. What we saw in the last place is that it has just hit the seas, especially the maps, during the first weeks of this year. I'm trying to answer it. A senator by saying: At the outset, I felt that we should have specific actions for those who were most in need than the motion now to extend the general penances show that there is an additional need for a general broad support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u48	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister did not answer my question. He says that the demand for decommissionment has been reduced and that there is a need for support for the food, culture, and art sector that is most difficult to deal with these endpoints. I agree with that. But I'm asking if it would have been wise right now just before the New Year's Eve to make an extended attack on the total cost of 8 billion jobs. Would it have been possible to use money to support those who were in even greater trouble? That's what I'm asking you about. And I'd also like to discuss it only if now that we're sailing out of this, we all know that in a crisis, there may be situations where compression is inevitable in various areas. Of course, it can be quite good to some degree, but it can become too much. I want to know if it's the highest. A minister is concerned that there may be a high level of employment compression, whether the ownership is limited, whether the most valuable jobs are moving from the small and here to the urban area, whether or not we'll be stuck with a more moderate, uniform, and perhaps poor tourism, so I'll mention it as an example, or how he can support it. And I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister has had some analysis of how the trend is within the individual paragraphs and what the results have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u49	A respectable president. It was after I watched last night's national game that I thought it would be nice to have everybody working, but it wasn't that good. Of course, all our jobs were worth the taxes we had. I'll take it this way. A senator is talking about the recruitment grant, support to hire people of unemployment, etc. Isn't that what it's like? A senator meant? [[Up front.]] No, all right. Of course, if this is the case with all of us, we would make adjustments toward the end of the last assembly, where we would extend to a large extent the rules of reimbursement, even though we would not take everything on hand, such as the U.S.A. Remuneration for auto repairs and such. But to a large extent, we extend our own housing improvements and continue with more than 60% of our remunerations until this year. Thus, that effort will continue until the autumn. Some of it goes down in the middle of the year, the rest lives on in September. It has also been asked whether we should have these general support measures for recruitment. There I have believed that the current job situation and the demand for employment do not require such action. But all the work-remuneration process on the merit tax has proved to be fine. There is no question that with the large amount of money decided to spend on the effort toward the end of the year, there is a growing demand in the community. There's no question about that. I think we've gone both ways, i.e. to respond to a plea for some extension of the campaign, while not allowing it to continue for the whole year and no longer apply. It is good to remember that after this special Covid campaign Everybody wins their course, 60% of them will receive their pay in many cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u50	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for a clear description of the inside of the pipe. I share the belief with many here that there have been many successes with them and with support systems in difficult times that we have observed and faced. No doubt the so - called stability contributions of several hundred billion, perhaps 600, during the past months were much better, and the situation was better handled and better handled by those unexpected events. I know the news is coming, not just from what it is to do for the restaurant sector and the hotel sector, but for them the dark people of the living sector, the cultural sector especially, the people behind the stage, are not directly involved in transport or surprises. Now I'm talking about the musicians, the lightmen, the sound and systems, and all this that makes possible, this biggest growth point in the world of industry, the living sector in this department of culture. I believe that some of these people, some of these companies, do not have direct access to the solutions that have been announced. I'd like to ask the minister if he would be able to stand by making solutions that would fit the kind of company.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u51	A respectable president. It may be the preferred plan for extending the general resources for response levels of resistance. It is an option that ran out at the end of November, and we are discussing this here with the council a proposal to extend it so that the date from November 1 does not fall down but can be applied for strength by December, January, February, and March. In the boxing process, a very large number of monotonous people attended a small business. It is an element of measures that are mainly aimed at small companies, as the maximum concentration per month is about 2 million and the experience has shown that it can be useful to people of the species of what is currently known. A senator mentions. However, it will always be difficult to express itself in general because it is so different whether people are working as employees in the business or if they have their own business, etc. It will also be important that we put some 400 million people in the culture sector through the various financial resources in it, which will then increase our activity in that sector. No doubt this will come to those who base their goods on the fact that there is something going on, that there are some things going on. That's where I think we have at least one. Two measures that can lighten up and support all who are active in stage arts in a wide sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u52	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I suspect that there are more serious problems that conflict with the class I was referring to before but that the hope for gigs will be solved over the next few weeks and months. It's the forgotten class, it's the dark people who didn't fit into creative branches and not exactly into the others. Perhaps some of these people had been exposed to priorities, pay expenses, and other expenditures, e.g. By means of tax returns, men are completely out of control, and many are in a bad way. But I'm just gonna stay on bright notes, 'cause there are better days ahead, and I've already declared the collapses of the advantages we've had, the ways of freedom and responsibility that have been weighed against us. You're a fun person, and being unable to meet people and lift up and enjoy culture, art, and all that society has given us has been very difficult. I would like to use this opportunity, even though it is not directly within the subject, to look forward slightly, on this council winter, and ask, with regard to the worst in the community, whether there is any basis for starting the actual preparations of what has been published many times, calling the global review of the social security system in the interest of the worst place in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u53	A respectable president. So I take this question just right away, which came out at the end of an answer, I had just a conversation with a social minister this morning that he's about to start his job and we were talking about a short time that we'd be taking it up in a formal field at the Minister's Committee. So it's a social minister who's gonna start the job, and I assume they're about to put a lot of power into it right away. But it is true that during the pandemic, we have survived much, and this has especially been the case when they are affected and their prospects are limited to social gatherings. It is not just a loss of income in the culture and in other areas of employment that we should be looking at, of course, it is both economic and social friendships, the economic products of the households, the enterprises and the social friendships that must be considered. We have the best we can do to keep a close eye on it. Of course, we have made large amounts of donations into mental health matters during this epidemic, and that adds up to this year. But yes, we hope to anticipate the end of this pandemic. Let's hope so, and I'm going to at least... to let me be optimistic about that. I am delighted to learn that the health minister is now able to present some vision for the next weeks and months that opens the way back to normal life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u54	President. Actions have succeeded, they are not large gaps, but gaps were. Artists had just a few holes, sports, hobbies, cab drivers, things went wrong. We do well to consider them in order to take action regarding them in the near future. V.E.G. However, a minister says that stopping the growth of public debt is the greatest task in the future. This is certainly an important job, but I want to draw special attention to the fact that at the beginning of the epidemic, the goal was to grow out of the problem, not just to stop a debt collection but to grow out of the problem, because we certainly have to pay our debts as well. It is not enough to stop the debt. When I hear a ◯ growing out of the problem, I understand in that the growth of government policy makes money out of debt. The excess growth is rather than normal if only the automatic fluctuations and the apparent reactions were implemented. The problem, however, is that we have never had an explanation of what government policy really makes room to grow out of the problem. I'm calling here for it. I hope we can see the end of this epidemic. Also, it is time for the government to explain the actions of the government to pay off the debts we have set up to meet the cost of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u55	A respectable president. It is the policy of not going to flat surgery in public affairs but to defend good public service. It is the goal of going to an investment campaign despite a sliding effort. It is a policy that has long since been based on maintaining a low government debt, so if necessary, we could have access to the financial markets we have benefited from. It is a policy based on putting money into innovation, research, and development; we believe that the money is well spent, that it will return well. It is a policy based on not going to taxes, rather than considering whether it would be wise to lose weight with those to whom we need to keep alive. It's a policy that has shown up in the fact that we've given huge sums of money, such as I used to trace, many tens of billions, in direct support measures to our companies. These are some of the main points of our course. On the part of the supply bank, it was made clear that we could carry a more profound intervention, but, fortunately, we did not need to do so. I would be very concerned about the situation in the countries where it has been done too much because we see the inflation rates rise very much. Inflation is to undermine the standard of low income groups, and we should be glad that such things have not been needed here. The policy I want to take the lead in the future is to make ends meet, believe that, in the economy, companies and ideas will exist. If governments contribute to creating a competitive environment, much power will be released from the people in the country. This is what we see happening right now, in view of economic growth rates looking forward to improving and increasing economic growth will help us to stop our debt ratios. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u56	President. At the beginning of the epidemic, in the first action of the government, there were 1.5 billion new creations, 3 billion market campaigns for tourism. In our government position, this was now rather insignificant if it was to be enough to grow out of the problem and set it up to 9 billion for innovation. This showed that there was a full need and opportunities to make use of it for new opportunities. Although the government did not fully listen to it, it increased the amount from 1.5 billion to a more than 3 billion in the first phase. But we now see that some of the principal government action plans, e.g. to innovation, which is in the form of the maximum reimbursement. Minister spoke of in his transmission address, a red flag by the Skatti. That is not a good way to encourage innovation; it is even used to cheat on taxes. We in the smaller part suggested all other ways to promote innovation. I hear exactly what's best. Minister says, but I'd like to see how these measures pay up these dozens - we're sure to have hundreds of billions of dollars that we have to pay back - and how long this operation of the government pays it back. I would like to see the government submit to the council: see, here are our actions. We'll pay it back in 30 years. Fine. Is that in ten years? I don't know. These are answers that the Senate needs to know, in effect, how to handle the money of the public in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u57	A respectable president. The existing administrative groups have already shown this in a financial program, and now, the last part of financial policy, how to stop debt collections in the years ahead. It may well be. A senator also believes that it is important that we respond to the ratios of money left over as well as the debt collection after 28 years. I think it's just a discussion that'll have to take some other time. Now we have a bleeding open wound in our government business, which appears in an enormous degree. I've spent that huge angle because we're at the same time with a plan on how we end our debt collection. Now it's going to be a test, including ... witha financial plan for spring and funding for the next few years, whether or not they'll be able to work here in the council to keep this thing going, because today two schools are working on how to get out of this crisis. Another school says this tail doesn't matter, it can only add 100 and 200 billion at any time and then find out about it later, it won't explode into inflation. The other school, and it's the school I think it's much wiser to follow, with credible practical plans for the way a person ends, how he stops his tilting, how the initial equations are restored, and how we try to promote economic growth so that the debt ratios will stop getting worse. The good news for us is that even though our ratios are very fine in international comparison, we are especially on the quarter of a crown, with a considerable weight of interest. However, the real level of government interest is not high, so it can be said that in our irresponsible debt, we have really had negative growths. Nevertheless, it is a burden that rusts out and moves us to make room for other upbuilding matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u58	A respectable president. Somehow you're facing it now, at least the question is, Have we not reached the destination of the epidemic? That it is possible to consider that there is a different type of disease prevention, as well as the subsequent economic events. I, like many other citizens, listened attentively to the Supreme Court. Yesterday's Kast Light Minister was talking about the limitations placed on the last one. I thought it was the highest. That's where the minister's checking out. He reasoned that the arrangements that were then taken to make for ten people to attend - that it would not be corrected at all yet. The criteria behind the decision included: Predicts how the epidemic would develop and what the effect would be on the hospital. There is no question that we are far behind the most optimistic predictions in hospital and then inquisitors in intensive care that tell us that we are on a completely different basis today than they are. V.E.G. A minister spoke up that there was no longer a legal basis for having those impairments. He considered it his duty to point to it at the government table, but then we at the same time have a health minister's opinion that there is no point in presenting an expositation plan until first Friday, and then a psychiatrist's position that it doesn't need to be done until sometime next week, I think it's February 3 that's discussed in that context. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, because all the economic activities are involved: Is it his understanding that this has become so that it is not supported by law and constitution as well? Is it that way? The government is now in the next few days until next week, if the reduction plan sounds like breaking the law on those enterprises which have a severely impaired function, as is now the case compared to the limitations that were last presented? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Very much. Ministers support the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u59	A respectable president. I believe that it is crucial that each time we are in a position to make decisions that reduce the individual or professional rights of people and provide the basis for how many people can get together, etc. In the case referred to here, this was very clear. We can read about it in the surgeon's memoir that it was on certain grounds, with a set projection under which this decision was made. That's why I don't think it can be debated that the underlying factors are smiling, which requires response. I feel that the treatment laws given at the General Assembly are very clear about this, and I'm glad we did the job of sealing that law code. Actually, I think we should have gone further. When we look back now and look at the treatment laws, these relationships, and decisions, I believe that we should have been doing quite a little further than talking between the government and the council. I believe, after all that has happened, that in the midst of a severe trial in the Constitution, there should be more discussion in the council. The best chance of the proposals being submitted to the council for release, e.g. That there would be a pact proposal, which would be taken care of in one debate and one vote. But about this matter that is asked for specifically, and is it wondered if I feel that this is the case where the law remains, the minister responded today? He made major compromises on the rules that have been in force. He did so by risking disease from those who have been exposed to disease outside the home. There is nothing to say but that there is a reaction to the information we now have. [[The president calls.]] Then, in the same week, it is later announced to take further steps. So I believe the Minister has responded. Then there is always a matter of opinion in the order of things to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u60	Madam President. Interesting. I welcome what's said about communicating with the council. I have found that when we have been discussing these great arrangements, which are deeply weighed not only on the state funds but also on the people and businesses of the country. I agree that it is reasonable to believe that it is simply the council to confirm the decisions made. Still, I felt that the question was not entirely answered because the Minister's statement was so clear in Castlight yesterday. We're at the point where we're breaking the law. That we are breaking laws on companies and business owners, who are in business and unable to care for the person who is going through the current limitations, requires the responsibility that we will right away remove the restrictions. Wait three days. Waiting until next week is really bad. The differences clearly between the Independence Party and the VG and the State's advance in terms of these issues cannot be ended by the fact that the situation lies with companies and people in the country, and they have to wait while some controversy is being paid, when the Ministry's opinion of legal matters is established. I'd like him to respond a little bit better. In many of the cases, the results on the aseptic environment mentioned today do not alter the position of these enterprises, they are left behind these measures taken in the past and no longer have any basis to stay in force. Then I wanted to ask just what the medical minister and hospital director's report said that the hospital has been given room to offer extra work contributions for the next four weeks and that this procedure will most likely increase the care of 20 to 30.30%. [[The president calls.]] Why has this not been done in such an efficient way earlier in the pandemic? [[The president calls.]] And if that had been done, is it not absolutely monotonous that there could have been more careful in all limitations and thus saved the few crowns, few billions, for the government's funds? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u61	A respectable president. I feel that the health - care system is normal, and in fact, we have special funds for it in the past. All I can say is that this has not been arranged for. But it is better that the health minister recognizes this because I am not in all detail about how this came about. But I really support it, and I think it's normal. With the law, it's just my opinion. I think I've been pretty clear about the fact that when there's a complete preconceivation of decisions that force the job or the freedom of the people to act, they have to react, and eventually they have to be the Minister's assessment, and I have to say he's coming here with a pretty big card today to deal with the disease prevention. When you look at these issues, of course, you have to approach them in a whole way. We have many limitations, they appear in isolation, and we have meeting restrictions that reach private but also job drivers and certain types of activity. With me there has been an increasing belief that in all these matters, we have turned things upside down a bit. You have to remember what the law is doing. They assume that all such restrictions are absolute relief bread. Therefore, the law says that as soon as conditions are no longer available to bind things, whether by job or by meeting individuals, they should be removed immediately. This is what I'm drawing attention to. Similarly, regarding the decision-making process, I feel that over time, I have developed a little understanding that these decisions are made by a psychiatrist, but the law does not say at all. The law says that he has only the disease prevention line to the minister and the minister should be looking wide above the stage, and then it is my opinion that the minister should come and have that conversation here at the council and settle the matter there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u62	Madam President. Speak to the highest. Ministers and previous declarations raise some questions. V.E.G. One minister noted that in terms of individual income, inequities were not increased. However, the situation of the enterprises has been growing steadily in this epidemic, and this was already a major concern before the epidemic began. This government has given its entire career new directions, new regulations, new schemes that have sullied the competitiveness of companies, affected the less and more. Today, the situation of the largest corporations, international companies, who rely on the globalization, has become ever stronger. Their owners have doubled their possessions while those trying to keep small companies on a fleet have had even greater protection. What will this government do, if anything, to bring about the rightness of the less competitive corporations, which, of course, give most jobs? It is not apparent that it was proposed in the Government Constitution, on the contrary, from the highest level. Ministers are streaming to things that are designed to make the business of these enterprises even more difficult. V.E.G. A minister mentioned that the environment was quick and that it was difficult to predict what was coming. In fact, he has stated that he himself wanted to see a better view of the future from his own government. Now we've seen changes in preventative measures. They were suddenly tightened a few days after being cleared without any figures showing why. Then they're back now, but just a bit, on the day of the population of infected people. Is the government merely making decisions based on the community discussion with business media rather than on some prospect of the future, as it were, the highest. Minister called in?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u63	A respectable president. I'm going to say, about the position of small enterprises in general, that I think it's remarkable what we've been able to defend. It appeared to us, for example. in that corporate bankruptcy through this epidemic is not beyond what can be expected on a regular year's visit. This is despite a global crisis. That's an amazing fact. We also see the distribution of government support measures that extend greatly to smaller operators. The client's grants, the revenues have a maximum monthly budget that makes it clear to everyone that it's a sub-sized resource for smaller companies and even monotonous. What has been done to support larger companies - if I mention here what is originally called a bridge loan and have developed into extra loans, it is the resources that have benefited a small number of companies. But it often happens, when such a deep economic climate becomes severe, I don't talk about in the trade like the travel service that's been hit, and it's just right by the water. A senator, from that point of view, comes up with a different picture. It is not unknown in the history that it leads to greater efficiency, all the ways to unite, and that reduces competition. There's a reason to keep an eye on this. But this may not be all a setback, since there were indications that there would be an extraordinary number of people for the pandemic, who would be active in tourism without adequate survival. What we hear from today's big business banks, however, is that the situation does not reflect a pandemic, which tells me that the government's support measures have paid off. We don't understand. We're at a minimum today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u64	Madam President. The support measures have been important, and it was extremely important that the State was equipped to take such action at the time of the epidemic. But this did not happen automatically, for special action. However, I feel that there is a lack of arrangements to cope with the rest of my life. Despite the highest. In his speech, then, a minister makes it clear that it is important to consider the debt of the state's wealth and increase in income, as shown by the government. As the epidemic was expected to lift barriers and that economic growth would increase considerably, however, this government assumes that the government will continue to compromise. It has reached, in particular, the time of this pandemic, to increase the number of official positions by 9,000, but at the same time to reduce the levels in the private sector by the same number. In other words, this government has more than others, whether in view of the total budget, which, of course, is not completely defined by the future epidemic, or by the increase in public employees and the decrease in the number of employees in the private sector. In what way will the government reverse this trend? We don't have the answers to that. Only then with legitimate measures to make ten man's limit to how many people can get together, even if it's an important project, I ask the highest level of questions. Minister: When a government meeting is complete, how many people are attending that meeting? I realize that the government considers it to be on important projects, but there are a lot of people working on important projects and the highest. A minister has now wondered, " Is it legal to limit such things? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u65	A respectable president. All I want to do is establish a headcount for the government. The Ministry of finance published the December 15 issue of this trend. What had been discussed was that the number of government officials had increased by 9,000. But when we study the data, if we just count the heads, it's not 9,000, it's 7,300. As we look deeper and ask ourselves, " Are these 7,300 full - time servants? ' Well, that's not the case, but it's 4,800 years, which is now about 4,800. Half the number in the discussion. And then when we look at that number, 4,800, and ask how many of the people working in the state against the locals, it turns out that more is involved. So the increase is not that great in the state. If we look at the last ten years, the number of annual jobs in the state has increased by 11.5%, which I now have to say, but the number of people living at the same time has been 16%, so, in this context, government workers have decreased as a percentage of the population. It doesn't change that I think it's high numbers, and I've been using things that should be to reduce the amount of people I need. I present here in particular the permanence of public service. Then, too, we must keep that in mind, as it were. In fact, a senator came in and said that there have been a number of jobs lost in the private sector, which is really just the nature of this epidemic and not a specialist phenomenon. The big question was, Should we go to disclosures on government employees, and we decided not to do so, which would say not take a flat cut in a crisis? However, in many parts of the world, jobs have been temporarily lost in the private sector, but, fortunately, we have seen the private sector being re-registered. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u66	Madam President. It's an interesting discussion that's been conducted here today. I'm just gonna say about what's ahead and I don't think it can be reduced to some extent by public employees, but we also have to increase them considerably, including. in the health sector. That is what we are facing. Of course, the government is paying for that service anyway, so indirectly they are public members. I have to say, I am happy today that we have come here after making good decisions over the years, based on experience and better - acquainted ones. I think it was a good decision at the time to take the same course. ... sowe'rehere today. But I may have wanted to roll it up with the highest. Minister, because he spoke well of what has been done and of what kind of strength and of such things have been available, an old proposal rises up. The Commission has been calling on what was used after failure to deal with the debt issues of SMEs, and, as we remember, it was new by a lot, named Bone Course. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he feels about them, and if they are appropriate, because I heard what he said, not about a general route, but rather specific ways as we've been doing. However, there is some creativeity to evaluate which company can meet relevant criteria and they are drawn into the table to decide if this is an appropriate way or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u67	A respectable president. I believe that circumstances vary considerably in the way the Bone Course was chosen. First of all, it had something to do with how we established the founding of new banks, the Lands Bank, and the Bank of Iceland and, in fact, Arion's banks. But there was even. were to indicate that the demands of the companies in the country had been put on a very low menu into the banks, which, in fact, appeared to us in the reevaluation of banks' assets as a great profit, and therefore there would be room in the newly founded banks to get closer to companies without the need for them to take on a major blow. This is what I think was one of the reasons why this route was gone and this led to some kind of common criteria that were actually part of the Bone Course, common criteria on how men could get their debt status corrected in the financial system. I don't fully understand when you refer to this decision on how it lived today except for, yes, I have had a meeting where it explains to me that men believe that this time of the pandemic will be the debt to the financial companies that will be difficult for the relevant company to deal with. But to me it's going to be a total test in a conversation with the financial companies themselves first, how it's playing. Here, for example, it may be called after the arrival of the State as some sort of large brother who looks over the shoulder of the banks and looks deep into their eyes and says: "Listen, do more than little, otherwise there will be consequences. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm inclined to believe that the market will have to figure it out. [[The president calls.]] A business with a viable future must be understood in this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u68	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'm pretty much in agreement with him, and I thought it was a little special to read about this approach being pulled out of my hat right now. Indeed, there is a debt. At this morning's employment committee meeting, the tourism was just a recent report for 2020, and actually up to 2021, and they're following it just for the next week. It also stated that there are very few companies, such as the Minister has driven here, who have disappeared but were probably someone in a difficult position for Covid, who will then have to weigh and assess now. I don't think it's something we should put on, at least not as our first choice. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister did not fantasize the flames of inflation. When we've been talking about the actions we've been working on, that they're falling to the point that inflation doesn't start because of course it's -- well, I don't think I've lived in a time where interest has been as low as it turns out. Of course, you are concerned about growing inflation and rising prices and imports and other things that we see right now just get out of control. Rearers are reporting that ahead are extremely high levels of growth, including In groceries and stuff like that. Of course, it's a matter of concern, since there are bargains and other things ahead, that it might be difficult for us to keep the inflation low. So what is it we need? Of course, I realize that we can't take endless expenses so that the spell won't become too high, but what is more important to the minister that we need to take place so that we don't lose the inflation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u69	A respectable president. What may be the identifying mark of the current economic situation is that we have seen a measure of vigorous activity in most areas. It is mainly in the tourism service that we still see the lack of considerable numbers on the previous well - to - do. We have seen a significant amount of private energy. The Christmas store was, I think, in many cases beyond the company's expectations, and this week we've just heard about the country's involvement in the banking system. As I traced before, it seems to me that there's a very low divorce in the banking system. There is nothing in the financial system that tells us that there is a crisis, so it is very important that the government fund is not too busy with action or that it leads to the law of action that is about to increase the level of tension in the economy. It's mostly and especially since men are still hurting, and this is what we're looking for. They're focused on people we know have suffered a great degree of impairment. Our resources say that there is a requirement for entry into the decision that a person has suffered a massive loss of income, etc. But if we were to start adding a lot of alcohol at the same time as the late bat grows, then we're offering back the risk that there will be an additional inflation for the government's sake. That is what we need to be careful of. Then, somehow, we need to get a good beat with the labour market so that all of them will be responsible for controlling their inflation and preventing the introduction of foreign inflation into the pay raise that is not available in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u70	Madam President. We're here discussing economic measures for Covid, but I'd still like to begin by celebrating the declaration of a financial minister who earlier announced that the Council would continue to play a more extensive role in the discussions and decisions for the treatment of disease. That's something many here at the council have long spoken for. I hope, in the end, there is a wide agreement on this in a review of pathological law, i.e. the need for confirmation of either the entire council or the members of the Parliament. That is so much more natural than the Ministership that the epidemic has been made because as soon as we have to listen to specialists, we have to remember that our government is simply so that the responsibility for the limitations of the Constitution rights can never lie anywhere else than for democratic elected agents. Now we're discussing the economic precautions, and I want to thank you very much. A financial minister for an excellent tour earlier, though the joke of the handball game and the work might have been lost. Of course, it is. The secretary of finance would have made everything crazy here, and the economics looked quite different. If unemployment were more, there would have been more bankruptcy, the provision of the people would be lower, and the status of the state's funds would be worse. Of course it is. However, this does not justify or excuse the damage done here at the beginning of the epidemic by slowness and fine response. It is simply a matter of fact that in the spring of 2020, the Iceland government moved much slower and did much less to defend people and businesses than the governments of neighboring countries. It could simply be observed in real times. Of course, it must have contributed to a much higher unemployment rate in Iceland in 2020 than in any other OECD state. Of course, it is worth considering that while the state's responsibility for loans and general management grants were pumped out to millions of European companies, it took months to set up such resources in Iceland. It was simply so that many of the first deliberations that were presented were not already active. In the beginning, it may have been the most successful part - improvement route, thanks to a transnational cooperation in the council when the bill speech that came from the Ministry of Social Affairs was extended, and the part - help process was converted into a major saving network for the job. What happened then, in the summer of 2020? Yes, at that time, all the conditions of the process of decomposition were expanded, thus reducing the effectiveness of the part-change process. Of course, the result was that a much lower percentage of labour workers in Iceland were in part 2020 than in other Western European countries. We can see that, for example. In terms of the two-fold increase in overall unemployment costs compared to the country's sum of expenses while these proportions were typically in the developed OECD countries. In the summer of 2020, companies were actually directly involved in the partial improvement process. What replaced it? [[The president calls.]] Yes, what the government did was introduce to me just an amazing phenomenon that I'm not sure is a parallel in our part of the world, which is the source of enlightenment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We will continue this discussion afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u71	Madam President. I'm going to say, in general, I think we can be reasonably comfortable with what we see. At the beginning of the 21st century, there probably would have been no reason for us to wonder that we would experience two of the more dramatic events that we now look back on, from 2008 on to that amazing pandemic. I just want to give the government that she did her best, and for my part, I trust the highest. Secretary of finance is very well kept in mind the financial affairs of the state of the United States. I think he has both education, experience, ability, and knowledge. Of course, outside circumstances, despite adversity, opposition, have been ours, and are incredibly practical. We are very lucky to live with the resources here. That's where the human species may be the largest resource. We've had a lot of luck to invest in education, to invest in health systems, and to all the important things that create, let's say our modern welfare community. There are probably not many communities in the world that have come closer to the ideal world than the Icelandic community, although there is, of course, no irreprehensibly like other forms of human society. If there was something that I would suggest that we rely on them, it would preferably be that, under no circumstances, one institution or one company in the country could keep everyone in some sort of hostage or an ongoing tension. Then I mean our blessed Land Hospital, which, of course, has been doing her best, excellent staff, and all that, and additional contributions have arrived until now, but he is always on the verge of causing the project. I have sometimes thought of 1918, the Spanish flu, the cold winter, and all of this. Fortunately, we are in a much better position to face such a situation today than we were then, yet it is a matter of government how you give one hospital the major task that is faced in a pandemic. I know ways to make sure that there is no need for one hospital to be placed in such a position that he is unable to handle the missions and that he is repeatedly in the emergency range. But in view of what I was looking at, in view of what I said earlier, here came an unexpected boom, late back from the collapse, which was the 600 billion, stability, or what it was, mainly from the people of the bank. Similarly, there are external circumstances that enable us to look to the bright future as a Icelandic society. Then I'll say, "I hope this epidemic is behind us." Hopefully, we can start acting the way we did before the epidemic. Even if you can expect some three, four days of cold and even cough or some side effects, I want to see what is most critical about this end. Of course, there is always a connection between the budget and what is being done and what must be done. For my part, I say there are two very important tasks for us that would give to our nation and our children and grandchildren, our descendants, a better society than we did in the economic, environmental, and mainly spiritual and psychological sense. That's what I mentioned before, and the Minister has confirmed that it has already been followed by many years of promise, and it's an overall review of the social security system that hopefully washes off us the national harm that's greatest in my eyes than many others, leaving as much of the community at poverty levels in one of the richest societies in the world. I welcome the news today that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Secretary of finance has agreed to initiate that process. May it succeed and succeed, making the best of it, the first thing to deal with. The other thing I don't want my children and my grandchildren and their descendants to live with for another 25, 50, 75, or 100 years, or whatever that will be is this persistent debate over one of our many resources. This well-proved World Camp, which we watch on Sundays, of course, differing aspects of the way they do, is a very good example of the successful production of a state TV on something that we can all be concerned about. It has been so long since the foxes were cut off, and the deal took place on the island over who would come and who would get, and who should and all of this. It will be undiminished forever unless we have the strength, the strength, and the courage to accept views. I hope that what a sea chief said earlier, she would be ready for that discussion. I believe the social security system can work out fairly quickly and effectively. The rest is much more complicated. It is the continental river, to the source of the resource, the whole nation's share, but, in fact, a small number of families share. We need strength to sit down at the table. I know that a lot of available companies rely on them to do more. I have no particular predictions about what it's supposed to be like. I'll just say, and ask the secretary of finance to participate in the discussion with us in this pantheon, the General, that we will come to a more successful conclusion for the future of the people of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u72	V.E.G. President. I allow me to state that none of us expected that two years after the Korean virus took possession of the land, we would still be in the time of great control, meeting boundaries, and economic rescue operations. But there's the situation, so we don't have much more to do than keep our heads and finish our assignment. I have previously said that as a nation, we may look back in time and be relatively content with the measures taken in this country, whether they have been economic or inaccessible. Economic measures have been successful. There are many people's words, including those. from tourism and cultural articles, many say that government resources have made a big difference. Now that we have hoped to see the end of this epidemic, it's important that we don't twist it too early. The wealth of money has been pumped out of the state's budget, but at some point it has to be stopped, so much of it is not normal in the long run. Then we expect employment to be able to take full force to create valuables here for the whole community as it should. A significant step was taken last week when the Council agreed to accept the continuation of public pay until the fall, and it was also important when the secretary of finance recommended for the bill on the basis of the Agency's grant to the caterers of restaurants that have had to be restricted during opening hours. As mentioned above, it is important that a group of companies be added to a group of hotels and hotels that have liquor licenses and run restaurants along with their hotel business. There is a good walk in the economy, with the exception of travel services. However, the fact that not all operators have weathered the storm in spite of the vigorous resistance of the government and the good will of many is not to be drawn up. This was clear from the beginning of the economic operations, and no false hope was given in this regard. Sadly, young companies with small funds and some who have been unable to cope with warfare and the reduction of exchange of disease prevention measures have had to give up. It's bigger than tears, and I really hurt with them. Indeed, life is not always fair, and much in this world that we humans cannot cope with despite much of our abilities. I know myself, being brought up in a family company, where everyone sleeps on one of the lives and soul to keep the dream going, that the company will not only be some landmark, or some house where some activity takes place, and people come to work by the old habit, or a company is scrutinizing because some old-headed male is sitting on the door, listening to nothing but doing his own pound. When a business falls apart, it puts grief on many, causing many to be confused and anxious. It can be a blow for communities and spread far and wide. Some never carry their bars again for bankruptcy. As the epidemic grows older, so is propaganda, which has been successful in extending a helping hand as I have described, but unfortunately not being able to catch everyone. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it is vital that we do not stay here with a burdensome restriction for longer than it is absolutely necessary to do so. [[The president calls.]] You see, there are many other things besides crown virus that threaten people's health and well - being and the burden of their health. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. [[The president calls.]] It is long time to look beyond such factors with greater weight. [[President (Jsisket.): The president asks the speakers to respect the session.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u73	President. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the objective of the government has been to react in the same way. During the past two years, the government has placed on the various restrictions in one or another and has proposed various counter measures. It is a long list of: budgets, sufficiency, lock-up grants, reimbursements, tax reimbursement, tax reimbursement, payment of property savings, payment loans, contracts, recruitment grants, start jobs, income dropbacks, travel costs, remuneration costs, investment initiatives, loss of hostilities, market costs, company-based financial reforms, income-related unemployment benefits and study campaigns for jobseekers. I'm sure I'm forgetting something, but this is the art, like the government puts him on his website for action and measures. In addition to dealing with the consequences of the epidemic, it was also a government policy to grow out of the epidemic. I thought it was a good policy, but the government owed us more than just saying the word, growing out of the problem. The government owes us an explanation of how they're going to do this because the first policy of this government was set aside for maintenance action. The current policy assumes that the collection due to the outbreak will be completed by 2026. I guess it'll be sooner, simply because we kept predicting the economic growth and overreading. While this is in harmony with official financial protection guidelines, it does not alter the government's obligation to explain the consequences of government policy. I specifically mention this because it is not enough for governments to rely on just a careful estimate of the future to give a better conclusion than was expected. You see, that's the situation we have today. We are simply in a better position because economic forecasts fail, not because of the government's actions, as many have been delayed. Yet, not everything is bad, the government has supported many of the government's proposals to act against the epidemic. But would there have been better results? That's a big question. Now, however, it is time for the government to explain the rest to the council and to the nation. It is expected that annual production will be about 31.74% lower than expected for the epidemic, and it is good to remember that this projection was expected to be cautious. The same is true of current predictions. My projection is that we will reach the 3◯4% by the end of the year 2022, which also means that the earlier forecasts were expected to be similar. Thus, that is a rather poor standard of government policy. What governments need to explain, if the goal is to increase from the epidemic, is how government policy increases by 3◯4% above those forecasts. At the present time, there is no explanation. There is no explanation of what the situation would have been without the pandemic and how the government's addition to that situation will create circumstances for us to deal with the problem. As it looks from my point of view, the government is just going to keep the sea and hope it's gonna work out. In order to be clear, I think everything is going to be okay, but it's not the same as going to grow out of the problem, there's two different things. The whole epidemic has been on its own without responding even to it. It has caused all kinds of fluctuations and unforeseen occurrences. The preferred goal has been to grow out of the problem, but it has only been empty. The government has not even tried to explain, rather than anything else, that Congress and nation are repeatedly left in the air by means of any means of disease prevention and no explanation of how to function. At the same time, members of Congress, executives, and various ministers talk to one another about their actions. Hence, there is reason to doubt that there really is something that the real map of growth. I think it's just empty words. Of course, the government will never admit it, but it can prove it wrong by showing the plan black in white. And it is the direct obligation of the government, so I don't ask for much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u74	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Financial and economic ministers for bringing us a report on economic measures for the code, but then I prefer to call it. It is my sincere hope and faith, as well as it is likely for everyone in this room, that the fog will be relieved, and we will step out of this epidemic with the rising sun. We have been living in economic delicate times over the last two years, yet we still stand remarkably strong in comparison with many other nations. We are seeing global success. The focus on protecting the economy, its main focus, home and business, along with maintaining the economy through the epidemic, has been effective. We did the right thing. It's like the highest. In fact, a minister brought up the support efforts of the State Fund to contribute greatly to the failure of the contractions in 2020. Without them, last year we wouldn't have made our flight. Then we watch that unemployment is far less than expected, something of great value. It appears that the disease prevention measures will be relieved and major operations are under way this morning, but until the full reduction is achieved, we are once again working on resources to get companies out of the last surf section. We're a strong nation. The tenet and endurance have sustained us through the centuries, and we're a little bit like the Icelandic handball team. We don't give up, though it's against the blue. Therefore, in the months to come, we are going to make a powerful resistance. As soon as the virus spreads, this will result in a powerful economy soon again. Iceland and the United States have every opportunity to get going fast. We have an enormously manned, powerful company, a beautiful land rich in resources, as well as power for innovation. The objective has always been to protect the health of the nation, the core of society, the protection of people and businesses, and the strong resistance to Icelandic employment. We now see that these goals have been largely accomplished. There's no default. So we can look forward with a positive attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u75	A respectable president. From the beginning of the epidemic and the epidemic, we have emphasized the simple but important fact that economic and pathological measures will remain constant, that they must indicate concomitantly, that the damage to the economy and the population in the country will be improved, and that people can know what to expect and when to expect, as soon as disease measures are introduced. We have talked about the importance of foreseeing to the extent that it has been slow and some course that is looking for longer than two and three weeks. I think we can now say, after two years of this epidemic, that this is the government's business. During those two years, there has truly been uncertainty over the epidemic itself, but there is no doubt that there will be damage when governments make the money - loss campaigns. And sometimes it is as if they lack understanding of the mechanism of employment in this respect, what it makes people live for months and years in complete uncertainty about survival. The government has repeatedly used the same disease prevention measures that now have knowledge of the economic actions involved. I mentioned the other day, and I'm going to mention it again, that in an interview in the middle of the last summer, Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir, the vice president of the Independence Party, since policy work has started within the government on a vision of the future in response to the pandemic and the government was going to give him two or three weeks on that assignment and introduce a plan on how to live with Covid for the longer term. But then there was nothing more. Had the government followed those words, working people, homes, and businesses in the country would be in a slightly more comfortable position and in a little more certainty. That may be in the case of some school policy. This may lead to some policy on disease prevention and the type of economic action that will follow. That would be for a vision. A long - term policy of action would have been a strong and important game, but the government never introduced the vision it proclaimed. I'm going to admit that I was very happy when I heard it. Today, the health minister describes the arrival of the government's lift program on Friday. It's an important and positive step that I support my whole mind, which I think the public will do too. Of course, the fact that with these decompositions, these costly economic actions will be unnecessary, of course. President. I'd like to review the environment that society, employment, homes, and businesses live in, and briefly cross the timelines from summer to summer. We remember that on June 26, all meeting restrictions were canceled in Iceland. A month later, they were reinvented. On September 3, new rules were introduced. Other rules were presented on September 15. Extinctions went into effect on October 20th. On November 5, restrictions were intensified. On November 12 it was again hardened. This uncertainty increases difficulties, and you see how close the changing of the rules is. One is a strong rule, but staying in this uncertainty about what will take place greatly increases the problems people face. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that all this time, from June to December, the council was not active. The government remained unsupervised because the government chose autumn elections and then took eight or ten weeks, or whatever, to form a new government. The Congress was not active all that time, and on December 21, meeting boundaries were expanded, and a new year began, thus continuing. The January 15 was even more hardened, and this is the reality that we are living in today. All this time, the people of the country have not been able to look beyond the past two to three weeks, forward to the next memo, and the government has been able to offer people a new burdensome rule, certainly in behalf of important interests that people are going to work after, even at midnight the next day, but taking weeks and even months to build suggestions on how to meet the loss of people and companies. The company is left in the position of expecting a support they do not know who is or when will not be accepted. There is no way to try to keep business going in such an environment. Thus, government practices in this respect have directly added to the problems. Only briefly on action: The delay of due days is steps but small steps and does not provide much support. It seems, for example. All caterers agree on that. Tax calculations are good for some operators, but they are far less useful to others. The restaurants with a short business history are in the middle of nowhere. The contribution subsidies were the best used at the beginning of the epidemic in order to support the working life and the staff of the people who were forced to cut their sails. I think the government has to look forward to supporting the employers who have worked hard to maintain a recruitment relationship, e.g. with a concentration which was the percentage of pay paid. [[The president calls.]] But I'm going to finish my words by saying I'm going to put high hopes in the skirmish plan that's supposed to be on Friday. I hope it will be clear what steps you take and when, that there will be a timetable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u76	Madam President. As we have often seen, since the beginning of the epidemic, we have the clear policy of supporting the public and the job life to reduce the impact of the epidemic as much as possible. That was a good decision, for this policy has yielded good results with good economic interest rates and less unemployment. The general economy is and has always been guided by our struggle with these challenges that we face. Supporting people's means of living and protecting their welfare systems is the best decision you can make in a difficult year's journey. In this respect, all major international institutions - whether financial or welfare - are taking place. You see, we've had a good time dealing with this pandemic, including Because a political decision was originally made to listen to experts and scientists based on evidence and experience. The Icelandic health system actually passed the test, was prepared to deal with the epidemic with the government's support and responsible response. There's been plans here, and we've applied the advice, as I said, to our most skilled specialists in every step, and that's a big part of us because we're out of this epidemic. We have been able to use the financial resources needed to support the economy and the resources of households and businesses in the pandemic. This support has paid off in a more powerful and challenging economy. Business conditions have improved rapidly, and prospects for the future are brighter. Although there is still considerable uncertainty about the progress of the epidemic, thanks to national solidarity and the understanding of the government's purpose to limit the damage. The task now is to rebuild the economy and the financial grants with support to a more varied and more intensive employment life, an increase in public investments in green projects, research and innovation and creative branches. The government will continue to protect public services and stress that the tax system finances the consumption, the level of income in society, and support our goals in climate. It will continue to be a high priority to trust housing with sufficient structure and social measures for income groups, disabled people, and older people. During the ultimatum that had just reached its completion, we were able to gain extensive tax reforms. We reduced individual income taxes, resulting in an increase of 23 billion households. That's what matters. Of course, this was done primarily in an effort to reduce the burden of their income. As I said, the restoration of the economy and the state's financial affairs following the pandemic is of utmost importance and the restoration of the state funds and the long-term sustainability of the state's funds, as the law on public finance says we need to do it. That is why we need to keep on using our power of reason. Our mission is to contribute constantly to the level of prices, and we must maintain growth. This is very important, especially if your home has become permanent. We must continue to take the important steps we have taken so far. Despite this tremendous emissions from a wealth of state that has put oxygen on the job, of course, it puts the state's budget on an enormous scale to a particular time, but we assume that we will be on the right side of zero within a short period of time. Indeed, it is a future mouse and must see how it works because, of course, we are dealing with something we do not know how to behave. As we know, there is little that we can predict and spit in advance when it comes to this epidemic, but we are here because it has been a wise government for the economics of the time of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u77	Madam President. As I mentioned here only in contrast, there is considerable concern that in this epidemic, there has still been an increasing imbalance between small enterprises and larger ones. My company's competitiveness status in Iceland and, in fact, more and more continues, and the epidemic has added to it. Large international companies that specialize in network transactions and posts have grown, their value has increased, large fast - food chains have benefited from the situation while those who are trying to run small family stores have lost. This is followed by the policy of this government, or the combination of it during the last term, which was all more and less to the failure of the competitive position, to weaken their situation with the constantly new rules, burdensome rules, which the big companies can easily deal with, even with whole divisions to do so, but the little companies will be less. The situation has become that Iceland can hardly start a business, let a good idea come true, except to employ experts just to deal with the system. What we see in the Government Constitution is the continuation of the same; continued burdensome rules and regulations that will still overcome the competitiveness of the less competitive. This is a major concern because new resources and new jobs become the main focus of my companies. When this is in relation to the situation we are facing today, where there is a need to increase the value in Iceland and to save money, pay off federal debt, like the highest degree. Secretary of finance mentioned earlier, this trend is very opposed, i.e. Our opportunities to expand our jobs, to increase their value. It is therefore of concern that in the two years since the epidemic began to make a significant contribution to the politics of this country and the government's activities, it has shown no vision of how it intends to promote the wealth of the country and strengthen my firm position. It's, in fact, on the contrary, as I mentioned earlier, just being added to this misbehavior. That's a lot of concern. I also briefly discussed the issue here that at the same time the government has stretched out the booth, expanded it. V.E.G. In fact, a financial minister at his time mentioned that the epidemic was not a concern because land production had increased much more. As a result, the booth would not have grown in proportion to national production. But when she suddenly withdrew, the booth became bigger than ever, no matter what standard you look at. We have now seen in the government's financial programme up to the next year that even if economic growth is expected as a result of the epidemic and increasing commercial activities, the state's payoff will be expected to continue. Thus, these two years have not been used by the government in any way to prepare the measures that governments must take in these circumstances to gain the previous paid debt, and to increase their wealth. V.E.G. A minister has criticized his own government for lack of vision about how to deal with this epidemic, the lack of some scenarios that could give the economy, especially the smaller ones, some idea of what was to be expected. This is a very normal criticism. Ministers of their own government, end by the day of the change in disease prevention and the approach to companies for support, and others seem to be very random and may be made up of more general talk in the community than are available at any given time. Now we heard this day, in the day when a multitude of infectious ones was assessed, that there should be some reduction, but not for ten people a number of restrictions. And I reiterate, Madam President, asking for the highest degree. The minister did not answer earlier: How many people are already serving a government meeting at their meetings?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u78	Madam President. A news report in the News magazine that the chimney had blown off the minister's base was just moments earlier. I now assume that it has been a deep fault, but the event may well reflect the controversy that has taken place between individual categories of the government during the last few months of the disease prevention procedures. What I thought was the most significant thing in this discussion was conversation. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson at the highest. A minister of finance that I feel deserves just attention. There were more than two. A senator who was watching it at Kashslight was poured out at the highest level. A minister of sudden law - abiding matters, and he doubted the improvement in the condition of his current disease prevention procedures. There must be an interesting situation for the companies who are currently in what is most severe of the crisis and who give them the expected expectations of support or even demand because of the highest degree. Of course, a financial minister is not just anyone in the community. Maybe I don't want to take that deep in the year as much as the highest. Minister, of course, I'm glad to hear that there is room to be lifted. I just remind you that it has to be done with a measure of caution. These steps must take into account the continued control of the health system and the continued protection of the most vulnerable groups. V.E.G. Of course, the secretary of finance, previously claiming that inequities had not increased in society, referred to averages that speak only half of the truth. According to an Oxfam aid report, the wealthier and poorer and poorer people in this country, in an investigation of the workforce, are also evidence that large groups are at a lower financial rate now than they were a year ago and that feelings of distress have increased. This applies, e.g. especially for low-payers, immigrants, single parents, and children. This must be one of the government's main projects. Although we may be able to get out of biohazard operations, we need to make sure that everyone is in a good place when we go into our normal life. This is also true of professional instability. In particular, we need to consider the companies that have been affected by this terrible, boring virus.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u79	President. At the beginning of the epidemic, it was clear that the government was going to focus on economic and economic matters, not on individuals and families. I immediately described this concern in the spring of 2020, and I pointed out that a large proportion of the budget that the government had used for economic response to the epidemic had taken up the state of corporate exponents, which are just as crazy now being carried out in the rearview mirror, paying companies to resign. Now, President, is an opportunity to see how the government's economic actions have affected and learn from them. The ASI report from June last year, on the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, shows that the negative effects of the government's actions are increased by the lower income groups, and at the same time, the rich have the opportunity to increase their wealth as a result of increase in stock markets and housing prices. The crisis has greatly increased the situation between groups and classes. Some of the most difficult and worst - paying jobs have become more difficult because of preventative measures and risk of infection. More often than not the necessary services and management services, and the ASI report specifically refers to staff of play-schools and dormitories, clerks, and cleaning staff. However, those who bear the highest burden of the crisis are those who have lost their jobs, and those who are most likely to be responsible for the challenges of the epidemic are low earners. However, when a number of unemployed people reached historical levels in the epidemic, the government did not decide to increase support for this group, except for the minor extension of income - related funds, there was no option of raising the warring unemployment benefits, since financial ministers thought it was a failure, as he put it. Only after the relentless criticism of the government's opposition, the labor movement, and the government's interests, and increased unemployment rates. President. There's a fact that the government has put its entire budget on saving companies, mostly large companies, rather than helping individuals and families. 10 billion at the maintenance concentration, 2.8 billion at the final concentration, 11.3 billion at the income drop point of 2.1 billion for the travel, 12 billion to pay for data. It's all corporate. Less than 13 billion were reimbursed by a valuable tax so that creditors could renew their kitchen and baths. It's exactly the kind of operation, Mr. President, which encourages inequities. At the same time, artists and dictators have lost a lot of money without the government's count of help. Young people are particularly depressed by their job opportunities and find it more difficult to get a job that is appropriate than before. This is a serious situation, Mr. President. Over half of the unemployed persons refused health care during a six - month period last year. There is some evidence that one of the largest results of the epidemic's Covid-19 is an enormous increase in the amount of inequities. [[The president calls.]] What we must face now is that the government's actions promoted them rather than slow it down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u80	Madam President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Financial and economic secretary for the oral report on the economic measures for Covid-19. I think it was a good idea to have this discussion. I'd like to start by saying that I feel that the original policy, that priorities in life and health, have been extremely successful, and are important. We only see the numbers on this, which, fortunately, numbers of deaths in Iceland have been much lower than in many countries around us. How important it is when going through a pandemic that it succeeds in a more diseased view! We have listened to the most skilled experts, and their advice has worked when it comes to controlling the disease. We need to endure to the end in doing so and in dealing with situations that arise in the community when the virus changes. I really hope we're going to the final stop, but when it comes to a virus, we don't really know exactly what happens next, and that's why we need to keep listening to our most skilled experts in that subject. It's done us good so far. But to cope with the viral epidemic, the economic arrangements have been extremely important, and I felt that they were the highest. Economic and economic authorities are making it clear in their report that the economic measures have been largely successful here in Iceland. All the numbers and reports so far show it. One of the things I think many people are feeling very clearly on their own is the figures on unemployment. Happily, we have managed to prevent the worst predictions of unemployment from becoming much in the long run. That's even. Because right measures have been taken. We need to continue our economic activities to the end and, as foretold, I think it is important that they now be directed especially to those who are affected by the most economic impact of what hopefully the pandemic is. At the same time, I feel that it was important that we have supported the various social systems that ensure the well - being and help people to feel better. This is so as to have a bearing on how we deal with the consequences of the epidemic. That's one of those things that makes society into a good society. That is why we need to finish this right to the end and continue to do so in public interest, well - being, and corruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u81	A respectable president. How beneficial it has been to have that exchange today! We are on another milestone in this pandemic, i.e. We are getting information that this new virus variant that has taken over the land is acting differently than we have so far. We decided initially to be careful, but today it was announced that we were going to take a big step, to reduce the use of contaminants as a strategy to deal with the virus, and that is a major breakthrough. But here on this discussion is the economic actions that are such as a reflection of the disease - control strategy and the economic consequences of the pandemic. I hear there's a little difference in whether or not we had any other options. It is also a question of whether some were more productive than others. I'd like to think that we've had an enormous involvement in business partners who have very few employees. If we look at this proportional, it is the enterprises that have one or five most prominent employees, which are considered by a number of companies or operators who have used their resources. Then there is another way to consider this in order to measure it solely according to the amount of money. If we just look at who was using government resources, a great deal of the small business that tells me that we've just reached them. Another way to examine this picture and ask yourself how successful it is to examine the financial situation. We made that clear to the homes' very poor in their time after the financial collapse of how much neglect homes were in the financial system. Actually, it was just a historical misapprehension. It was a terrible situation, and after all the usual scales, we could actually have said that the financial system itself was in total trouble. But there was so much special in those circumstances. It all was going to be worked out. Years later, we went into debt correction to hit the carpenter's head on it. But today, there's a whole different picture. This is no time to see in financial accounts or financial bills that there has been a great global crisis. On the contrary, there are a lot of endogenousities, poor divorces, and there is growth in loans. This is what I mean when I say that in many places the economy is very vigorous. In a commercial store in Iceland, e.g. Just be fine. But there are certain areas of society that are hurting and that we've been having a bit of a conversation today, and we're in the mountains when we introduce new resources or extensions of older resources. At the same time, we will discuss how we provide the end of the epidemic. Hopefully, now that we continue to receive positive news, we are quick to do so. There are reports from Denmark that there are about to be a very rapid recovery, and comparable reports are coming from another source. Hopefully, we'll be able to see our hopes for a good fight for the companies, the operators, and the families and the number of jobs in the country so that we can start looking into the future with the virus behind us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u82	Madam President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the management and monitoring committee for proposals for the resolution of the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Commission. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but I'm going to tap on a big one and try to draw out the main points of it and point another into the written text. It rests here on my fundamental case and on the stand of the senators who will sign this committee's opinion. This resolution is submitted in accordance with the 3rd case. 1.mg. 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It says that a number of advisers and their names should be decided by means of a presidency decision, as suggested by the prime minister. Prior to the issue of the president's decision, the proposal for the General Assembly shall be submitted in the form of a synonym, which is already under discussion and payment at the council. This arrangement ensures that the proposal will formally and open up a discussion at the General Assembly where the elected representatives of the nation will have the opportunity to discuss in a material way the changes made by prime minister on their individual occasions to the highest administration of the government. So, according to this, following the previous conference at the council Hall to the Commission and Commission, who sent the case out for review, they got some reports and a number of visitors at the Committee to discuss the matter. There were various viewpoints that were tore up, and there were indications. For them, we try to include an article in this committee study a greater part of the management and monitoring committee. To sum the matter up briefly, it could be said that not a lot of comments were made to the Senate itself, i.e. for the proposed change in the number and intensity of Council of Iceland's Council of Management rather than in terms of the expected transfer of affairs between recruitments. The reviews and reviews of the Committee were designed to make comments on the expected transfer of several topics to a new Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs. It even came there. ... worried that high school affairs had not been properly understood in the synopsis arrangement and were concerned about high school students who are over 18 years of age, as well as those who are working and working in school. We, in the majority of the administration and monitoring committees, would like to state that the changes proposed by the establishment of the New Education and Children's Ministry are consistent with the increase in the government's focus on the affairs of children. However, the entire subject of high school is moving toward the new Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs. We're stipulation to the importance of high school, and to insist on the minister of education and childhood to ensure strong consultations and cooperation with high school. There are also toying views with and against the transfer of advisory and diagnostics to the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs. It stated that there was no argument for moving her away from the Department of Social Affairs, where much knowledge of the seminary was built. However, to the Commission it came to the opinion that in view of the emphasis that had been placed on successful children of the new Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, it would be normal for the advisory and diagnostic centres, which are primarily the services of children with severe developmental difficulties and their families to move to the Ministry. The majority agree with the view that it is right to move to the Ministry of Education and Children's Analysis to the Ministry of Education and Development, but we are required to be careful that the knowledge and experience that has been built up in the Ministry of Social Affairs for Social Affairs will not be lost in that move. The members of the Commission discussed some matters. We feel that it is important to bear in mind that it is the prime minister's decision to make the Council's orders, and he has the means to advise him of his Ministry. This includes the responsibility to ensure that the Council's organization is in such a way that it will fulfill its obligations and be in the best position to implement any governmental policies at any time. Well, that's really what it is. The prime minister is stressing the contribution of a case in which issues are being divided. We, in the majority of our countries, suggest that all the changes in business affect workers and changes often lead to uncertainty about jobs and how the future is. However, by working hard on this project, it is possible to achieve the objective of the government for counseling, but of course also to consider the status of the staff. The Commission's discussion revealed nothing more than the fact that it would be done. I felt that this was very clear in our dealings with the situation. A few comments gave the view that changing would be physically similar to government issues and institutions at different departments. For example, it was called the transfer of university institutions from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the University, Industrial, and Neothesis of the Ministry of Culture and Business, on the other hand. The institutions would have made a lot of teamwork, and a great deal of cooperation would be between them. In general, in view of the greater part, the success and efficiency of the implementation of administrative matters is not the basis for one thing in general. On the contrary, the invisible walls of founded civilization may survive between office members of the Ministry, just as between recruitment practices. In view of the greater part, it is more important that the Council performs active cooperation and cooperation. Is that particularly important in such a small administrative system as the Icelandic one? In our opinion, it is urgent that the vast changes involved in the Parliamentary arrangement are being used to further cooperation, consultation and cooperation across the Ministry to ensure that the knowledge and the human resources of the Council are fully new. And in fact, the discussion of the subject within the committee showed that there can be evidence that a matter can be held at home in more than one place. It's a little bit different from what view is being considered at any given moment. But good conversation and cooperation are crucial to success. As I said here at the outset, the commission received a series of accounts that included a variety of viewpoints. I think it's important, like I've figured out, to swerve these views, then they've come to a guide and see where the indications are, to make sure that the information needs to flow specifically, because that's probably the best way for the changes to work, and, of course, it must be up. As shown in a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, the increase in recruitment is from ten to twelve, and the change in their vows is a final factor in a major change in Iceland's Management Board. Two new departments are created by reorganization of issues, and there is a change in the promises of others to the beat of new challenges and the transfer of governments to or from them. This will require a more powerful task management. So we believe that since the project is important, the committee is being kept more informed on the course of events and is being given a localized report. We suggest that it will be no later than May 1, where there will be a review of the progress of the changes, the challenges that have come up, and how they will be met. This is important to do, I think, because I think it is important that every government can maneuver the management board so that it can achieve its aims in the work. However, since this is a great change, it is important that we get information about just the challenges involved in this important and important work. In the greater part, we suggest that the proposal be accepted. Under this heading, the publications, along with the one listed here, giddy. Senator Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. a member of the committee for a clear opinion. I'd like to talk only about some of the changes proposed in the order of recruitment and their tasks, which I didn't think were too good for me to see if the committee had examined. However, a report by this council concluded that the Department of Social Affairs and Work will handle the affairs of immigrants and refugees and will also accept services for applicants on international protection from the Ministry of Justice. I think we all agree that this is a good transfer of work between recruitment companies, where it has much more to do with the Ministry of Social Affairs than with the Ministry of Justice. But unfortunately, the last paragraph of this Ministry report states: The Ministry of Justice will continue to provide legal assistance and standard administration in handing out applications for international protection and patents in this country. Today, there was a strong criticism of the Ministry of Justice and the Foreignist Organization that they were not doing what was right in this case. I'd like to know if the committee discussed the suggestion to transfer all of this to the Department of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u84	Madam President. As a result of illness, I did not sit at all the committee meetings while discussing the matter, so I must give this warning about what I say here, but, of course, read all the comments on the subject. I think I trust myself, though, to say that it has not been discussed with the group of lawsuits as a whole to the Department of Social Affairs and Employment Services. But of course, it is important that the government of the management department, whether it is the trustees and refugees of this country, or only the general administration of the foreign citizens or foreign people who come here, should be at one hand. What is being done here is moving the ministry out of that department, and it has been criticized for a long time that service to that person is in their hands as if it were a permit or a different kind of license. Of course, saying that the Ministry of Justice that handles this case is important, is doing its work and conforming to the laws set up in the General Assembly and that all that is well cared for is well handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u85	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's daughter for that answer. What I was trying to say before was that the Ministry now has the job of handling applications and the agency that handles that service on the behalf of the Ministry has shown that they do not respect the law or human rights of the people they are applying for. Therefore, I feel seriously that such changes would not be considered within the committee. But I'd like to ask you why. The head of the committee is about something else. The Senate arrangement did not show the cost, how much this would cost. You've heard figures as high as 4503/4,500 million. K. and these changes will cost. I don't see any financial information on the committee, so I'd like to ask why. The executive whether the committee has received an updated cost assessment or whether we are here making changes with an unpublished check to the Board of Directors to proceed with this. Whether the coin to which this should go should be used should not be used in something better, as e.g. Adding to mental health or support to refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-reflecting, of course, that the Ministry of Justice is to enforce the will of the council and the laws set here in regard to its handling of the matters appointed by an institution. As for the expense arms, the committee examined it. The figures set out with the bill are the figures that apply to it, the number of budgets being increased by two. On the other hand, the number of lawsuits is moving in between, and the funds will be moved with them. However, the cost analysis involved with the synonym is the current cost analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the discussion of history, but at the same time, I want to say that I feel pity when I listen to the senator's role in justifying such a clean and complete political operation and trying to put it in a professional costume. It seems to be as good a tool as possible. A senator has got his hands and has done quite well. Nevertheless, I realize that the situation is not large in the left green and forward groups, but it is being expanded. But we have a third group of government members, which included... ... ina campaign under the slogans, please turn away. The first actions are so growing, increasing the expenses of the state's budget on hundreds of millions of dollars, without dwindling, and without, in my opinion, the original professional specimens, to the core why they want to go this way. I have repeatedly emphasized that every time the government, the government, and the members of the Parliament must have a measure of opportunity to change the Council of Government, both according to the political policy being developed, including. in a government covenant, but also to look around the environment and change. But I don't think the exit point needs to be increasing the recruitment force just to increase the number of them, just to pet the advance team on the back. The advance team needed the fourth minister because he won his election, so we'll just talk right out. I would have liked to see some changes being meant for, but that is why I would have been able to do them by reducing my schedule. My concerns touch it even. that I believe that the removal of the administration of our Iceland, which is a means of security, also to the public, involves the general security of the community. It is a security issue that the management board works for the citizens and companies of the country. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm afraid of with these changes, even though there's some good things in there, like I'm gonna come up with a second answer. [[The president calls.]] Thanks to the government, who, however, took advantage of time, there are some changes that will improve. [[The president calls.]] But, overall, this is a matter of thought and thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u88	President wants to direct it to what? Congress officials say they have a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u89	Madam President. I don't think there's any need to feel sorry for me... because I'm speaking for this Congress resolution of the government. I simply believe that it should be the job of governments to put lines on how to change affairs within the Council of Government at one time. In fact, I think that, in fact, every government should be able to divide these matters as it feels best every time. A number of years ago, it was agreed that this was being done in the form of a synonym, so I'm standing here and making a recommendation for a committee party. Of course, it is such, Madam President, that when changes are made, they can be reasoned with and against them. Therefore, here in my speech, I tried to swerve different viewpoints presented to the committee. When changes are being made, it is obvious to me that they need to be observed to produce the results. I believe this is a good suggestion for a discussion that should be approved, but it is in part dependent on the political vision of each and every one of us, and even each class, would choose to set these matters up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u90	Madam President. So we're going to underline it again: The government of the time can change the system. This government, by independent category, forwards, and left greens, has decided to increase the number of schemers, increase government spending, and not necessarily in a very transparent way. But this is their food, and the first step of the government, to increase the expenses of the state fund. I'm warning you, if I've understood why. A senator is correct, that after every election, there will be a revolution in the entire board of directors, whenever a new government comes to work. I warn that there will always be, like this time, only three ministers, the heads of the packs--is that chance? I ask - who will stay and who will then be remembered for whom the konsum of a particular person is best. Shall we put this one and this one together? Some people like peppermint best, while others take the caramel or the marzipan. It's been something like that. We need space to adapt our administration to our present, environment, employment, homes, and families in our country. But as soon as I say so, we also have to have a degree of stability and delinquency, and we're going to have to have a company in business. If the government groups had foretold elections: We're going to increase the budget by one, and we're going to increase the government spending by at least 500 million. K.? I'm just asking. None of the board of directors would have dared say that before the election. But this is reality. Of course, there will be some of these changes, except what, after one of the longest political discussions in history. I mention changes in the interests of foreigners, in the interests of employment and in the interests of culture. Unless what? But I think it's a bad start for the government to start over the number of stewards, to have the political specimen first, and to have the professional come later, all because there's one company in the government that called for more ministers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And then there's a puzzle around it. I don't think it's a good way to work, much less raise expenses for hundreds of millions. [[The president calls.]] Scramble away, they said.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u91	Madam President. I believe it. I'm counting on it. A senator has read the report with the original motion, which gives the highest view. Governments have it in their power to change their plans. It explains why these developments are believed to be useful in the highest political objective. The government will cooperate. I find it normal and not really strange that a government that has already worked together for four years sees how it can be more effective by changing counseling and even more than a government which... [[Why not reduce the number?]] The goal must always be to achieve the best of government's goals. This is a suggestion to do so in this way. I think it'll turn out great. I believe that the way this is suggested is to achieve the proposed political objective, of course, that the management management should be in harmony with it. That is exactly what they're doing with this synopsis proposal. Usually, there are more ways to go, but this is to achieve the priorities of the government, and that is important. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate that I hope this case is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u92	Madam President. I weigh the 1st reduction in part of the European Commission and monitoring committee for proposals for the resolution of the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Board of Management Board. The proposal has been made by the highest level. Prime Minister regarding visitors and envelopes to the Committee on the matter. Yet, I refer to the committee's opinion of the majority of the section on the threshing floor. 349. As the World of Congress knows, in 2011, just over ten years ago, there was a new law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland that had the goal of strengthening the Council of Government, including by reducing the amount of resources and increasing the number of them. This was done to promote the administration, to strengthen professional management and to increase expertise in the language of the Council and make it work better together. The key was a thorough report entitled The Samhent Administration, which had been provided to the then prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, at the end of 2010. The hard work that had been done on that committee was based on the suggestions and changes in the law and then some of the agreements that followed. There is no question about the fact that it is in the power of a prime minister who is part of the Management Board's division of projects and order of scheme and, of course, in cooperation with the directors of the board's administrative organisations at any given time. The government is in control of this case, and there's no doubt about it. It was concluded that the requirement for independence party and forwarding in terms of the Constitution and the payment of the Council for over a decade ago was followed by a political arrangement like the highest level. The prime minister moved, so that the council could discuss the matter on its own. So we've discussed the case here, and we've had a discussion on the subject. Board of Directors and Control Committee. The committee discussed a number of matters, and we received comments and comments on both the items that were satisfied with the case and also on the subject of success, or the opinion that government matters were actually wrong, or that they did not agree as best they thought. These indications are explained, and they can be read in the reviews and, of course, account for the majority of the Committee to some extent in its members. I believe that this is the responsibility of those who support the government, i.e. The members of the three members of the board, giving this matter their support so that it will pass through with the engine power of the greater part, so to speak. I have all sorts of opinions about what is being done, but in itself I do not make material comments on what is suggested because I simply believe that it is the responsibility of the greater part to handle this project and make it a part of it, making it a point that it is wrong and that industry is in order. There were some things I didn't think very well. I'll just give you one example, i.e. Iceland lab. Iceland Office is still under the Ministry of State, but there is still to be a new Ministry, which is actually like the Department of Iceland because it is culture, tourism, and so forth, at the highest level. The Minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir is in charge. So there are some freedoms that end up in this project that may have been a matter of political activity or some balance of power in the board, I don't know. Yet, this is one example of this project. What matters to me is that within the board's work professional, good management with expertise and expertise, where there's a place to fit in, where it's being taken care of that the services of citizens are entirely decent and in accordance with the administrative and translucency and so on, and that the Council is some kind of stuck in the way that it operates rather than just how we operate the political bitch in this country. Of course, all modern employment sites need to be flexible, and the mobility of workers must be readily available. Of course, everyone's salary and rights have to be taken care of, and I'm just assuming that it's done and done. But we still face this issue in some way and face the fact that Iceland's Management Board is not one workplace, that's a number of workplaces. To me, it should be one place to work. Iceland's management board should be on one social security number, even though it was divided into many departments, and put together by units self-sustained in the sense that they had specific administrative issues on their own. If the European Commission wanted, or new governments, some sort of lawsuits could be moved without having to be turned upside down, as if something had to be done now, with two new schemes and a great number of problems between advisers, even so that the Ministry of Education and Culture, soon to be sent out in the new board of directors. Many of these are excellent proposals, I think, but it's still a huge root. This is a great source of knowledge that has gathered together, and the human resources of the Board of Management, which can be broken. There's a chance there's a gap. There is a chance that something will be forgotten. There is a danger that when there is a particular matter between schemes that if the specialist was not in full - time service in that issue, there will be something left. There are all kinds of these kinds of possibilities in this position because our management is small, we are small, we are few, and we often have to pollinate pretty thin. Many become genetic artists, just as members of the council will inevitably become members of the administration, or they may have large groups of cases on their own, since it is always the same man who meets one of the 10◯20 foreign experts who handles issues in other advisers or in collaborators. But that's how it is, and I'd like to first mention that I think it's important to these changes that the special knowledge of government officials and staff advisers is not going to court and that it is to be taken care of in transport matters is done in a way that would not be cut off or otherwise in the service of those groups. The reason that I initially mention the changes and new laws on the Council and the report that led to them to the development of 2010-2010 is primarily the thought that it was so clear in these changes. It was, of course, after the collapse, and it was quite clear that there were various kinds of issues and procedures in the Council of Government that had failed and that had to be added. I think it hasn't changed much in the past ten years. There's a lot of big litigation to worry about. We know, for example. that both health and social matters have to work together, and it may be helpful to some extent to the new superintendent that more cases are being held together than has been done in that area. Why do we do this? We'll do it, even if we do it. Because the Management Board, the Ministry, has to have the ball volume to protect public interests. We all know how special interests, especially sectorals, have been going through history at the Board of Directors. We know how the interests of stakeholders have been directed to write regulations, even the elements, and that they have been lost and blown, I'd like to say. It may be easier to do so when you have a small department that may not have a high - volume amount, whether it is called High Priests or Department of Agriculture, on the other hand. We all know these examples. We know the story. That is why there is strength in its size. I'm worried that we're going off that track for over a decade after we changed the other way. But as I said before; it's the responsibility of the greater part, it's the responsibility of the executives, and I'm not going to take that responsibility for them. It was well established in the Committee on the Council's Conspiracy, and many mentioned this, both outside and inside the council, that, despite some extent of its insignificance, there have still been quite high walls built there. It's kind of strange to see how these silos, as they are sometimes called, we can call them sauerkrauts, are on poles when they should tear them down and let people work across the Ministry. I know there's more about teamwork, I know there's more cooperation between recruitment and, of course, there are ministers in certain litigation groups. But the big task is to break down these walls and create a work environment and an administrative environment where you can cross the line because you will improve the coverage and you will improve the service, you may even improve, and hopefully, the effectiveness of the advisers at the same time. As we have seen, there was a sharpness. The Commission will agree to ask the Minister for a state report on the induction of changes no later than May 1. We all agree that it is the responsibility of the Committee to follow these changes and to make sure that the induction - although I know that it is starting to be prepared, it will formally be requested after this proposal has been adopted and a new President's decision has been issued. It is good then to be able to see whether the transition process will turn up, whether everything really works out as it has to be done so that the board of directors or government officials do not work out. Madam President. I think I'm going to make this work about that committee opinion that I'm alone signing this time. But I think it's important that we consider the intervening process of these changes and that we think about what they are for. I'm not trying to minimize the ideas that are being developed here, but I think that all people will see that politically they are very useful in three categories of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u93	Madam President. I hereby represent the opinion of a secondary part of the Commission and monitoring committee in this consideration of this case, a concierge of the changed order of employment at the Iceland Board of Directorates. There are four of us at this minority party, i.e. I, Sigmar Guðmundsson, Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Kristirdótir Gónsdótir, Ásldur Lóa Þórsdóttir, and then an officer of the Committee, Bergþór Ólason. This issue has been attributed to the treatment of many members of the Committee since Christmas and has been called to the Committee, calling for reviews, and many have been received. I want to use this opportunity to thank the people who helped in the work as well as the members of the board. This was accomplished in a great way of life, and practical wisdom was being done on a global scale. Since then, of course, there are many opinions about what this is supposed to look like. This is a huge case, and what I'm going to do in this passage of mine is to go over and tear down the main four of our opinions. We are not considered to speak specifically about whether this particular institution belongs to this Ministry rather than to anyone else or whether this project should be here and not there. Rather, each of us in our discourses can be a key difference in how humans feel, since we all come from very different categories. Then I'm going to cross the main lines of this whole thing. It's a big deal. It's not a thing that's missing. We're here discussing how the Board of Government itself should look for the next four years. It's not a national matter at any given time. How important it is for everyone to succeed! We agree with the memory of the section that, of course, the administrative sector, the government itself, and the majority of its activities at the council will be responsible for what it looks like in the end. This leads to our own failure because we do not necessarily agree with all that is being suggested, that we cannot support the matter. But how important it is to be successful, and we view the red thread as being through both the Parliament's counsel, through the reviews, and by the members of the committee, you see it very well, that although this case is very professionally dressed, it is primarily political. This is based primarily on the fact that a certain outcome is being dealt with, as is often done after the election. There, the percentages of members within the government changed, so it had to be followed when it came to appoint a minister and divide tasks between the classes. There is therefore no doubt in our mind that first and last, this case is based on politics, power ratios, and the need to react to election ends rather than the fact that there has been some analysis or something specific about how things were best planned. There is a lot of talk about such positive changes, but there is no one alone on the committee, as they may be able to understand. We are going to confess to the government at any given time a considerable amount of space to shape the Commission's ideas about the policy they have to follow, but it does not work properly, and it actually falls on the first test when we find out how all of this is decided. It's okay to go over it just because it was done on the committee. They were trying to reveal exactly how all of this developed in this way. Of course, it's only a specific conversation between the directors of the administrations. That's what happens. This is how it is drawn up and when the Ministry itself, the Board of Directors, the experts, and others who may be able to contribute, and at that point, are reassigned. That immediately makes it very strong that this is not necessarily based on any particular professional basis. Of course, we're used to it in Iceland that governments are often formed this way, but it was very interesting to observe on the one hand the formation of governments in Iceland and Germany, in terms of this particular process. It's just that the Board of Directors is entrusted with an enormous amount of knowledge, both specialized knowledge and knowledge of change management and so forth, and there was nothing in the work of the Committee that convinced us that these objects were activated correctly when they were drawing up these changes. Many of the comments that can be read support our evaluations as well as comments made by the visitors at the committee meetings. Then the change in policy that is taking place, and we only wanted to include in this committee's program. A policy was developed, and I thought that men had agreed so well on that, especially in one of the administration parties, VG, that what had been learned from the collapse, like a dog. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddottir came in earlier, if the Ministry were too shredded to fail. The government was so scattered, they were so weak that they worked against us when it was important that everyone would stand together and row in the same direction in the leading of a collapse and even in its controversies as well. The lesson there was stronger, larger, and stronger units. The conclusion now in the reign of this government, and then I'm not only talking about this terms that are just a new age, but also the last, is that it's going in the opposite direction. There is always a growing number of stewards and stewards. We feel that we are working against the thought that came so clear to us after a collapse, that it is good to have the strength of our unity. Thus, much more knowledge can be developed, not to mention what was mentioned earlier, that, of course, it also provides a stronger resistance to the pursuit of special interests. We may not be aware of this least from our professional resources. In this regard, it has often been said that special interests will be fully paid for the costs of public interest. So that's one of the things we wanted to do in this committee of ours. Also missing are all the analyses of why these things are put in place and not to someone else. There is a vague statement on the fact that the purpose is this, but the way that the objective is not specifically guarded or reasoned is not in the Senate itself, nor did it appear on the committee. As I said earlier, there are many words that people can make some political decisions about how things are supposed to look, but it's never harmful, no matter how they want to draw up the Council of Government from political interests, to promote professional employment. It is possible to do well, and it would have been possible to do better in this matter. In recent years, there has been very little debate over the tendency to increase in the number of people who have fallen into what was said after a crash. This is unfortunate, and we make such comments in our committees. This is determined by the three presidents of the board, and then this dissipates and the expertise enters late stages, which, of course, is not good. It was found at the work of the Committee, as well as in the comments called after a number of parties and institutions are concerned that projects are not being sufficiently developed to ensure that knowledge is included in these ideas of a new workchange. This was often mentioned and made comments on this and concerns, and it was not easy to learn that it was often based on the experience of people who have long served in the administrative capacity and who know cases in time and may have been up to more than one, even more than two or three governments. There is something that we discussed on the committee and a man was found, and we agree on it, there is no particular answer to how to ensure that knowledge and often funds can be used to handle work between advisers. The word "messenger " was to form a form of conversation, and I think it is a term that conveys the concern that humans are concerned about. So it was promised that it would be guaranteed, but there was no plan on how it would be done. It may be that there is a greater need for consultation, conversation, greater access to experts and stakeholders. We also refer to the comments of BHM, which refer to the use of expert knowledge, as well as to the fact that the knowledge of the management board has not been new in preparing changes in the order of counsel. This may then require a break in the service when a person is not careful to allow expertise to shift to the rhythms of this new system. Another lower part of the management and monitoring committee is also concerned about the development of education levels proclaimed by the government and, in the opinion of my share, the foretold educational arrangement involves a relapse in the view of education in general. Education is primarily a matter of well - being, knowledge, progress, and happiness of a nation, but the priorities of the government are more than about economic goals and that education serves a career. It's not going to be torn apart. It is not enough to think only about the economic goals in this regard. There is some purpose in this, and it is, of course, the building of knowledge, the making of progress, and the general welfare of society. So it's all gonna have to hang out. Then we'll face up to the concerns that have been put on the staff position during these changes. It is a bit shocking to hear that now, many weeks and months after all of this is decided, people in the board are still unsure of what happens to them and whether all their rights, duties, and tasks are guaranteed and how they should be cared for for for for for longer periods of time. That's not good. You can totally agree with what happened to you. A senator who once took a majority opinion from the commission, of course, that of all the challenges they may face, and may follow them in inconveniences and even some uncertainty, but it does not take any of those who make the decisions or machines to make sure that these issues and changes are made so that people do not have to be directly afraid of their positions or live in an uncertain state for weeks. Clearly, there was a considerable lack of consultation and direct information. I'm not saying anything, or we, that this is a matter of long-term operation, but these are things that must be OK. There was every reason to say a good deal about it. A smaller part of the management and monitoring committee considers it to be the way the government wants to go in this Senate resolution, and it stands and falls by it. It's the highest. Governments drawing this up. I'm sure we'd have done this differently, and I'm sure four of us don't agree on exactly how things should be done, but I'm stressing that this is precisely why governments at any given time have to stand by the decisions they make. She has the power to do this under the cover of her council, and she will be responsible, too. We are glad that there is only one member of the Committee to follow these changes. We feel that this is important to us. We're talking a lot about ideas now, how people see things, and we don't exactly know how these things all will develop. But keeping a point on this, watching it through the season, calling for information and information from the council and from the government on how things have worked out. It is extremely important, and clicks match the role of a board of administration and surveillance committee within the Generals. The major conclusion is that this is a major change in the state's highest administration, and it is taken into a narrow group. The decision is far more political than professional. There is nothing in itself that forbids it, but there is no need to have many words about the more professional things man operates and adapts, especially when it comes to such large and important objects, the better products and the better work will be done within the board and the management management is more efficient and better in connection with it. So, as we regard it, we are not going to support this synopsis, as it shows. As I mentioned at the outset, the four of us who stand for this opinion will definitely come up here in talks and be more aware of how we feel about a particular procedure in this, i.e. Whether this institution should be subject to this Ministry, this project here or elsewhere. There are all kinds of opinions about it. But these are the main lines of what we want to follow through with our minor aluminium.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u94	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson over what he shares with us as well. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir for what she shared with us, I'm sure you'll find out. But I'm gonna share with you guys some kind of insider information. I don't need to complain about the receptors I've been given in my business to make the music sector, STEF, FTT, striven, UTOON and the Union of Icelandic artists. I'm going to inform you that this view has been very widespread in the creative fields that it was not a creative article in order to be part of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Why not? In the past 20 years, we've experienced it repeatedly, or at least since I've known it, and the Ministers of Education, including Illugi of Gunnarsson and others, have admitted that at the challenging educational and cultural services, the Minister of Education and Culture has, in fact, been 10% of time and energy gone into cultural affairs, the rest goes to the huge Ministry of Education and Culture. Ergo: The culture has been a small 10% drop in a huge school Department of Education, and in terms of their development, the least of which is the question of the question, and its magnitude in the economy, it was bound to be unacceptable. About that, at least Two Education and Culture Ministers agree with us at the scene of creative articles. We asked that this be replaced. We wanted a full-time cultural minister. This may be a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u95	Madam President. Yes, I've heard this discussion in terms of culture, and it can be overcome in other departments. We have noticed that the last miseries have been complained that agriculture is not being done high enough in the last few years, and so on. So I just answer briefly, I can totally agree with it. A member of this body will also admit that I feel that governments at any given time may have allowed time to evaluate how they want to handle matters. I think it's always such that all groups, whether they're cultural or professional or any other people, are always concerned that their seminars are not getting enough oxygen inside the Board of Directors. I can totally say that I don't think there's anything wrong with dividing up the Ministry of Culture and Education. It's been called after that for a long time, and then we just have to see how it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u96	Madam President. I thank the senator for his input. I'm going to share with you another story of a related field I was in after I left the scene of music and creative articles, as a formal chairman or leader. I have been an associate development project in health - related tourism, in FHG, a company in hotels and sleepless services, and, frankly, faced a new employment support, suddenly and at a high rate, the largest Icelandic employment industry, the tourism service. This was the case at the Department of Employment, where a very successful worker was with the Department of Employment, the innovation, the energy, and all the rest, and then we were added to the court, that we felt that we wanted to have a watchman in the traveling industry of 15% a job, ◯fulltime◯, eight days of the week, but we actually had an employee in some 20% job in the travel sector. Happily, a minister in charge could play an amazing role, actually doing amazingly much in a short period of time, and thereafter the Ministry of Justice was lifted off, after which it was called. We believed that such a splicing branch that made up up up up to 70 billion incomes during 2018 to the public was better off, and we have faith that this is the right time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u97	A respectable president. Perhaps just to catch up on what I mentioned earlier and in the context of this discussion, I would like to quote the text from the report that follows this synonym: The current employment services and creative sectors, which have become increasingly important to the European Economic and Business Life, are being brought together by the current Ministry of Culture and Business. Clearly, traveling and cultural sectors enjoy mutual benefits of success and much of their interests combined. Thus, Icelandic cultural events, such as musical and movie holidays, have been the appeal of tourists for years. Similarly, creative articles benefit from larger markets that accompany the growth of tourists and increasing demand for Icelandic art and culture. The intervening effects of these groups of subjects are clearly high and necessary to be equipped with a framework in which policies and government support contribute to both sectors at the same time. Such texts can in themselves be put together for anything. This is just some logical support in my opinion of this conversation that we were talking about earlier and as a result of its origin because the Board of Directors was divided in a certain way because of the election process. Of course, there is a possibility that the former minister of education would like to continue with culture. That's where business's at, too. In return, do the banks and the poems really work together? We can go on and on and on about these things, but I read this text up just to stress that all the promises that are being mentioned in these things, and I don't doubt that a good will is behind me, are supported by some sort of phrase, and a adder of words that sound beautifully beautiful on paper, but tell us nothing more about it in itself how things should be done. That is, in fact, what we may be a bit critical of our committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u98	A respectable president. I'm one of the people who sign the majority opinion of the management and monitoring committee in this important and major matter. For my part, these changes are beneficial and well thought - thought - out, though I understand well and appreciate that, of course, the matter is that people have many opinions, even 63 opinions, in this room if each one was asked. But in general, I feel that these changes are well thought - thought - out and that they are, in effect, motivated by a luxury position that does not always happen here in our political environment, that there are the same categories as the same individuals who continue to cooperate in a new terms period. In a state of government change after election, changes can be made based on the experiences of the past, which I think are for good, and you don't often have the opportunity. I can well understand the thought of whether it's normal that there are three people, in this case the heads of the classes, who sit down there and make this decision in some sort of void, it sounds to me that they're trying to explain that here, in some way, it's abnormal. I don't think so, and I'm gonna let myself say that in the real world, considering how politics create this system we live in today, it's as good as the only window that can be used to make some real changes. The reason I want to mention this is that changes such as these are one of the most important executives in the European Commission in order to follow their political emphasis. To me, it's not something that's a problem or not a good thing. Of course, the government is political, and although it may need to protect its activities from all professional grounds, as it happens, it is the role of those in it who have democratic authority to lay political emphasis. At the same time, they have the responsibility to arrange for the system to be properly designed to make it a reality. Of the changes now being made, I believe that the personal importance of building properly on climate issues of various kinds has been seen in the case of the government that most of us are going to have a climate crisis, these are the activities of today and tomorrow. I think it was extremely important to take the energy and the environment and put them under the same hat. That's what I'm saying, because I think it's a big deal that instead of constantly setting it up as opposites, it should be viewed as a cohesion and a equilibrium between innovation and protection. I think it's by that interaction and the conversation that we have a chance to take success with both these views at the table and, as I say, they're under the same hat. I think it's a very successful change - I can't tell if it's gonna work, but I think it's well planned and it's exciting, and I'm looking forward to seeing what's gonna happen. Another big change that I think is also the absolute key to taking the innovation and putting it so powerfully through science, research, and industry. We are simply meeting the call of the fourth industrial revolution on what is required of us to take hold of it. I think that was very good work. Similarly, I am very excited to see how that Ministry will play out that position to highlight the greatest opportunities we have in this series and is simply the future necessary for us to continue to grow and thrive. Another thing I'd like to mention, which may have been less likely, is that I believe that moving housing and activities along with organizational matters into what is called the Ministry of Residents is an extremely important step. I don't think many people have noticed that the length of planning and building matters has been a measure of dissatisfaction. There are all the levels of society under and different institutions that need to talk, and I think it will help, to shorten the waiting list, shortening channels, reduce the costs of that, to start with having these cases within the same Ministry, which I think is also very exciting. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, otherwise reviewed what happened to the committee, and I want to use this opportunity to thank the committee for her good cooperation in this matter. There's a difference of opinion about change. That's what it says. But, hey. But for my part, it was not the conclusion that there was absolutely no doubt about it, that it wasn't well thought enough, because I don't understand it any different than if such a thing had come up, then it would have been all willing to look at it and react. There are situations in this situation that pointed out that it may not be appropriate to move to another location, and this was simply a failure. So all I've seen in this matter is that it's trying to create a government tool that can best meet the political challenges of this government and the future, in the most reasonable way possible. To tell them, of course, you can show understanding that not everyone agrees on this, but I think it's simply a very important government. I'm glad to hear that the representatives of the less part of the Committee, both of them. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson and Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir, state clearly that there's no one to say that this court isn't lying there. I think it's good to make it clear that we're clear. Of course, there is need for careful action, and of course there are different viewpoints that need to be listened to, and of course, they need to be treated if they are not heading in the right direction. Therefore, I especially rejoice that there was a convergence on the committee that we would receive a local standard report, I think that it is said, from the prime minister after about three months with the first vision of these changes being going on, whether there is anywhere to point out defects in their service to the people of the country, and about the work the government should take place. I think it's very sensible, and it'll be useful. Other than that, think that this matter was being done with as much fine as possible, and perhaps all right to stress that it is a prime minister who is responsible and, of course, had the support and consultations of his Ministry. I am optimistic about the benefits of these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u99	President. I appreciate the honest presentation that political issues are involved, that the prime minister is responsible for presenting the changes, and the emphasis on follow-up of the case. I have experience with the law on public finance, where I'm on a financial committee, and this may be considered tricky. For example, the secretary's annual reports are completely ignorant. The reason they are useless is that the goal is inaccurately inaccurate. There is no cost assessment, benefits analysis, etc. so that we may know whether the funds we contribute are really due according to the government's policies. Because this is not available, any of the annual reports can be made in the secretary's annual reports. You can give everyone a hard time because the goals set out for failure to achieve, they are properly said to be run out, and they are changed so that other criteria are used when it is not possible to show that the previous one has worked - if it was usually possible that they could produce results. We know very well in our discussion of financial laws, that they have simply been poor. When it comes to the synonym that it is intended to break the invisible walls of civilization and the rest of it says that it is more important that within the Board of Directors, active cooperation and cooperation rather than that these invisible walls are the problem, I think it is of great interest that the problem is not to be explained at first, so that we can determine whether the problem has been solved. We need to be told what the problem is, which invisible walls to break down.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u100	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Although he went through many fields, I think I understand the question, i.e. that there is a problem with the task is not completely clear, so we can determine whether or not the task will succeed. Yes, it's just the question of what our work is. I can totally say that these annual reports may be just one good device. In the time of the last government, in the last terms, it was, for example, the At all times, it was publicly stated when the terms of a government covenant were fulfilled and how they progressed over the years. There is one device that can be used. This hall is certainly one tool that can be used to keep members of the council and to advise whether the promises and goals that are set out at the beginning of the terms of the term are being fulfilled. Regarding what is called a set of strains - within the administrative system, there is a general reference to silos - I was during the last term in the Council of Control. I don't know if this makes any difference to me because I come from there, it might well be, but I kind of thought that there would be a need to expand the conversation between counseling and raising a little bit, rooting, taking jobs from one person and moving another to create a broader knowledge between different schemes. Hv. A senator refers to the report, and I understand that as such, it is what is being meant. It is a well - known theme of the Council that this has to be fixed, and this case is an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u101	President. There are surely more efficient ways to do things. All I ask for on this side is that when you talk about cost, it explains what's saved in return. There's no such thing in this, there's not even an effort to explain what the benefits of these changes are. It's said that this will make things more efficient. I have no idea how. So three months later or a year later, I can't evaluate whether things have been more efficient or not. I may not expect to have a neutral analysis of whether or not anything has worked. Suppose, though, that diagnosis is in place, and the conclusion is that things are not working exactly. Does this mean that we will have another council proposal to resume our change? That's what you'd think. But I don't suppose that's because I know this government only because it's difficult to admit that it was wrong. This refers to the implementation of tasks. For example, human rights and human rights will be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Presidency. Follow-up of laws and regulations is moving from the Ministry of Presidency to the Ministry of Justice, synergistic effects, etc. Thereafter, innovation is being moved to the university, industrial, and innovation departments because a clear policy must be developed across a number of halls. It is actually the same argument as it is being used to present human rights to the Ministry of Presidency. I think it's really interesting. The same evidence is used for bringing two different categories of cases into two different departments, since it involves many departments. These are the details I'm trying to understand. Yes, I understand the reasons, but they're not accurate enough to answer the question of who will get better after all. [[The president calls.]] I come from a budget board and I'm interested in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u102	Madam President. Thank you very much for this question. I welcome all members of Congress who are concerned about government funds and that the government, as is often called, is critical of their work and see what it spends. Thank you so much for that. But I'm still going to let me ask myself, " What's a get - together? ' What is it coming into the plus after this sort of change? In answer to that earlier, there was a reason. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon's fine illustration of how his clients suffered in a ministry where there were many lawsuits, they felt as if they were lost even on chapters. That's not unique. What does it mean to wait for the planning of a home and all its associated items to be reduced to the citizens of the country, for the companies of the country? What is the basis for this? What is the basis for the future for the taking in innovation, for us to continue to prepare one of the largest economic foundations? And I could keep going. In my mind, Madam President, you can't claim, as I've heard in my discussions today, that the department is always better. I can't stand here and claim the opposite. But this cannot be said. This change is in harmony with the political emphasis on the government to meet today's challenges, and I think it's well thought and done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u103	A respectable president. I've been watching this conversation today, and as we have seen, this is a huge case and a variety of opinions about what's just normal. It is very important that we accept the discussion and communicate effectively. We live in a time of rapid technological changes that involve new opportunities and challenges. Thus, it is important that the management system have the flexibility needed to meet them. With these changes in the order of recruitment at Iceland's Management Board, we are looking to the future and to the events ahead. The government deal is progressive in my opinion and filled with progress for Icelandic society. The changes discussed are tailored including: that the Treaty and will simplify the carrying out of many important projects that are being carried out there. In this context, I would especially like to mention the challenges that lie ahead in housing. Putting all the housing services under the same hat in the new superintendent is an important tool that gives additional and more perspective and increases effectiveness in that category. I have high hopes that big steps can be taken for improvement in housing during the country's election season, especially when it comes to promoting a suitable supply of property in cooperation with rural society. You see, organizational matters are closely related to local government, and it is a real pleasure to see these classes of languages in the same Ministry. In the new superintendent of infrastructure, there are strong cohesive impacts on society's infrastructure, such as transport, housing, planning, community affairs, rural governments, and humanitarian activities. I think that linking it together in the same ministry is very sensible, I think. Also, I think it's a positive step to combine children's affairs with learning and youth. This will add to the perspective of the group and will help integrate services for successful children. This is the core of all the services to children at one place, and they give the media a higher degree of power in the management system. Finally, I'd like to state that I believe a huge opportunity lies in the new college, industry, and innovation. It will solve innovation's energy through increased cooperation between industry at university and science and will achieve more valuable jobs and strengthen the nation's competitiveness. Increased cooperation with these parties will promote a powerful circuit economy. These are changes to break down these so-called and multi-numbered silos, extra cooperation, synergistic effects, and efficiency in the whole system. These are changes to meet the challenges ahead and bring about our ambitious government covenants. I agree with what has been presented here in the past on the importance of making a locality in how the changes take place within a few months, weigh and weigh them. We must also remember that there is no small part in stone, but we must be ready to evaluate the situation and to review if necessary. So I have full faith that these changes will produce results. I have full faith that these changes will produce the desired results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u104	Madam President. I think a little bit of a big deal is what I'm talking about. A senator spoke of the ministry that I am most concerned about in terms of the affairs of the disabled. Those who are disabled will go to the Department of Internal Affairs, but the children's language at the Ministry of Children's Education and Education. Then you ask yourself, " Wait, meddle in service, success bill, success of children? ' Where is all this? Where are the successful disabled? There's no record of what I think is the most delicate group in Iceland, one of them at all. It's not well thought up. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me about the situation of the disabled?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u105	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir for the counter-sponsion. I view housing, whether of the disabled or of others, as one matter should be in one place. I think it's important. There have been many suggestions on how to improve this, and I think it is a great improvement to have it under the same department. It would have been strange for children to talk about it because of what they're talking about. A senator made this matter clear to disabled children, especially when we're doing all the work with children in the same place. I think it's very important that any service related to children be in the same place. I have full faith that this will work, that this will result in our success, and if not that we are ready to revise these things if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u106	President. Now I take into account the review of the Development Fund on this subject. It shows that they are deeply concerned about this and that the State's legislatures and diagnostics go to the Children's and Education Ministers. They want their government's advisory and diagnostic centres to expand and they're heading toward that direction, so it's gonna blow for them at Development Help. If you think of knowledge, harmony in service, and all that, I feel as if these are some kind of answers that are just being examined afterwards and that this is not well thought of for this delicate group. It's not the same as the academics as all these lawsuits, it's a very special service, and it's very important to merge in it. So I'm not entirely convinced. I'd also like to know how to measure the results of this, what scales will be used and the baseline value, or if something is being done like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u107	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Senator Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir for her later stand. This is an enormous, important and emotional and must be done really well. I can totally understand this reflection. Senator. They need careful action. She came to see if there was some particular standard for measuring the results. I really don't have the knowledge to answer it right now. That's it. However, there are various ways in which we have a waiting list, e.g. and that's probably an article of service to evaluate the situation and how it works. I am convinced that, as shown earlier in my case, it is better to render all the services to all children in the same place. As shown in the case of what? The senator of the Advisor and Analysis Centre is a very good source of information worth considering and evaluating. But as it is today, I believe this is an important step and the right step to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u108	President. Hv. A senator came into the Department of Woods and then increased efficiency, etc. ... whichis to become in a permit market and on a permit, and so on, because it is to be placed in the same place. The U.S. Addiction Society's comments on budgets 2022 state this new superintendent, which says, on permission of a president: THE Treaty of the Government Treaty states: A review of regulations must be done, an increasing inclusion of digital administrations, and a simple construction project to reduce construction costs without the cost of quality and universal design. It may be helpful to simplify things and examine procedures at any given time. On the other hand, the problem of the Icelandic construction industry is, not a rule, but a smooth operation and a willing spirit. Hence, it is necessary to examine this class from the standpoint of the fact that good design and careful management are essential for the consumer's real cost. In view of this, it is difficult to understand the above text from the government covenant. It would be almost possible to know the importance of standards in the Icelandic construction industry, to nurture them, and to provide funds for that work. Then you will learn how the New Creation Center was laid down, and the laboratory of the construction industry went back and forth with a number of fun things. You see, I'm really worried about that, because the complaints we've heard, especially from the executives, have been about this damn environmental assessment, that there's always a mess going around. However, the people who come and explain this to us say that the environmental assessment is simply always wrong, and if rural and executives would simply do it right, they wouldn't always get into trouble with it. It's, for example. Reference to the willing ones they're talking about. If there's some way the Department of wood puts it better than that, to cut it off and that leads to efficiency, then it's just a good thing and a blessing. [[The president calls.]] But you don't necessarily see it from the synopsis proposal or the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u109	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnar's Gunnarsson is very grateful for the counterargument. If I understood this correctly, he was quoting a review that included willingness in the construction industry and grueling work. I'm not a judge of it right now. I haven't had any experience with it. However, I have experience in sitting in rural governments and experience with planning and housing in the countryside. In this respect I can agree with these changes, how important it is to move them under the same department so that things can be done more quickly and better and that waiting lists and channels can be shortened. I sure hope these changes will improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u110	President. One of the problems of putting everything in place, although it may increase efficiency, is that quality control often suffers because it is a quality control factor, which puts quality control aside by making and making decisions. Of course, if there is a quality control of a person making plans and projects, self - esteem is being carried out. Self - esteem is good and blessed, but if it is to be a real quality check, it also requires external supervision and regardless of decisions. To a certain extent, the environmental assessment is an arrangement, to assess the impact of certain tools. If so, those who will decide which initiatives will be selected should not also determine how the evaluation of the effectiveness of the projects will be conducted because they are obviously biased or can be biased. That's the worry I have about heaping everything in the same place on the same hand. Yes, I understand the efficiency, which is expressed by the desire, but the cost of biased decision making inevitably leads to making decisions that in general are harmful, just because it was the preferred decision of those who decided to take it, they thought it was far better than professional practices might have said. I refer to the location of the hospital, for example, a horrible location when it all comes down to everything, regarding access from the capital area to other locations. There are better things to do. We'll start by throwing out the amateurs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I think we can all agree that we want to see some careful work ethic. We want challenges, and we want to see clearly, and we want to see results from our projects, we want to see efficiency in the system. I want to, because of what. A senator quotes the reviews of a Union community member who agrees with the proposed changes, which provide examples of the community's going from the Ministry of Prime Ministers to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs at the time, and they were very pleased with their application. Hv. A senator mentioned that having it all in the same place may not be good. I can totally say that it's not good to have everything in the same place, but some things are important to have in the same place. The changes are now because we think it's important to go over this and review this and have access in the system for better results. I hope it'll benefit us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u112	Madam President. All of this is the most amazing thing, both because of the way it was established on the part of the government and also because of the prehistory of the matter. It is based on law on the Council of Management since 2011. It was the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir who introduced it as the bill of law after a large discussion here at the Hall of Congress, a conversation that was often called the conference's advocate at the time of government opposition. Blessed be their memory. They had much warning about where Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was headed, and her government was headed by that bill. I had a meaningful share in those discussions, and comments were made to many aspects of this subject. Then, in fact, a whole different government, with the left movement ◯ green supply inside the table, decides to take full advantage of these laws and not to take advantage of the principles that were most critical when the left government brought them into law at its time. Then you must wonder: " Was it easy to limit the opposition of the present independent party and the forward class to the case at the time and other members of the council, now in the government, or is their emphasis limited today? They go on contrary to what was warned day after day in long discussions about the bill of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. As a matter of fact, I don't think we have to worry about this much because we'll see how this government was established. We saw this four years ago when the government was presented as a government that wasn't going to be such a political government, I think even to the highest. The minister of finance said that this was not a government for big political issues. This would be government stability. And what did they say? Yes, a government with a broad appeal, a government with a group of representatives from left to right that would mean that all voters could be more and less pleased because they had their representatives no matter what these representatives did. Thus, this government was established, and this was how it worked, as a system administration that allowed the government to rule. This was clearly seen in the first Constitution of the government four years ago, where a greater part of the prime project provided by the Ministers were primes from the last government that the new Ministers had just got to their desk when they were allowed to work and were told to move to the council. That was how this government ruled for the first two years. Then came the epidemic, and then she was content to be in his shelter, but now on the same basis, on the basis of being a system management. However, what these groups want primarily for government cooperation, if it is not to alter national policy with some political emphasis, is the minister's seat and role for their council members, in various committees and advice, etc. Clearly, government negotiations took a heavy toll. They took an odd long time in view of the fact that the same groups had decided to continue working together, with the result. But government development took a long time, and when a political treaty finally appeared, there were no explanations of the length of time that would have taken place in this government or have continued the administrative work. It was just more of the same and again of the system case from the season before. But then we saw the Ministry list and the change of work, which committees, which domains of authority were heard under each minister. At that time, it was clear to everyone how long the worm delayed. It was so difficult to divide these assignments, so difficult that this case became so strange that we here discussed, a case that includes the transfers of the Ministers itself, and not just the Ministers but the heads of the administrations did not seem to be properly understood how the government should be divided when it was introduced. The name of the Ministry was not even clear. This changed from one document to another in several cases. It was obvious, though, that the discussion was a problem with the switch of projects, such as they should formally lie down with each category. At that time, Sigurðardóttir Sigurdóttir's bill was taken in 2011 as two of the three administrations, or at least Their leaders, had fought and criticized so hard, and particularly taken counsel that appeared and had been the most critical. Madam President. I understand that the left movement is, too, useful at offering greens, which was the company in the government at the time of the law. VG, I think it's safe to say, likes to take advantage of the opportunity. It was appropriate for the long left government to increase government power affinity and is appropriate now for the left movement of a 'green supply' in the shelter of an independent and forward class of the second consecutive terms. But why did the other groups accept what they warned so strongly and criticize in their day? It is likely for the same reason they accept that the VG set the lines political in this administrative work to the extent that it extends beyond the system authority, if they get chairs and tasks on paper. You see, it's like so many cases from this government, as I've so often pointed to, Madam President, about wrapping, not content. It's about declared goals, not real influences. So it was that the name of one Ministry was at least significant. Part of the climate Ministry because some classes had talked about the need to establish climate services. It didn't matter if this Environment and Climate Ministry was any different than the Environment Ministry, but it had to be called because it had been talked about and it could be kissed in the box as a result. And the Department of wood, not much changed from the previous, even losing a certain wood from the Ministry, but it had to be called the Department of Wet because it's all a matter of dressing, saying, "We packed it up as we said we were going to. Trusting no one to look in the package. As a result, it all seems that when it was long - term enough to introduce a new government, the ministers hardly knew their own role. The names of the scheme were changing, as I mentioned, and they are, I am still changing. Ministers are now accepting a change in the name of their own Ministry by some announcement of community media. We are, for example. ... witha Ministry of Science, Industrial and Neoplasms Ministry? You can find it in most official evidence, but the minister says he's a university minister, reported it. I don't know if the Ministry is the university Department or the Ministry of Science, maybe we'll find out. There may be more to say about the change in labor, for it, as mentioned at the outset, is still very vague, not to mention the cost. V.E.G. The minister of finance repeatedly appeared and admitted that the government had no idea how much this would cost. At least that would cost hundreds of millions, saying the highest. Minister, but they didn't know how much this would cost. How could they know? They didn't know what they were doing. They did not know for themselves what assignment to land, and it seems that they are still working on it. And the cost is still unclear. What we do know, however, is that this opportunity has been used to the utmost in order to increase the number of government officials where possible. I'm not just talking about the growth of Ministers, I'm talking about recruitment in the board, enlargement of the booth, and including the growth of assistant ministers. This was just one of the most critical of 2011, when the left government proposed the case based on this matter, that it was opening up an extremely excessive increase in political assistants. It is known that ministers have the whole office and agencies behind these problems in their work and often put them on a high level of government opposition in terms of resources to address various political issues. Nevertheless, the left government decided to increase very significantly the possibility of recruiting assistants to the government. In fact, on the basis of those who were trying to dissuade the matter at the time that it was just an option, they did not necessarily expect to make full use of it. But what has this government done? It has not only increased counsellors, it has been used to the limit of all opportunities, even all the windows found in the bill Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and the left government to increase the number of political helpers. At the same time, the smaller item here at council has far less efficient resources to deal with most of the land's parts and necessities. This comes from the government, which, in the beginning of the last term, called its government covenant. A covenant for the Proconsul of the Council. In fact, I saw that when they renewed their government cooperation, they realized that the joke was stopped functioning after the past four years, and this government has done nothing more than increase the power of the executives at the expense of this government, using all the opportunities found in the law, the law that was so highly criticized in its time, and that the excessive financial resources of the public have never grown as in the time of this government, where the Independence Party is carrying the Ministry one year still in the next decade of almost unfinished sitting there for a decade. It's just going to keep adding up and expanding. At the same time, there are fewer active people in the private sector who have to live up to the entire booth that has grown so much in the history of this government. This case here, this weird case, which I call so much, puts this government and the government together very closely. It is the government of chairs, the ability to distribute the quality and roles of human beings. It's not political emphasis control, it can be controlled by the system, it can be written the Constitutions for the Ministers, because it's just a matter of the fact that these old groups are mostly in power. When was e.g. The Independence Party, I don't need to mention the Future Party in this context in the past few years, last with any political emphasis here at the council, in this administrative business? Freedom and all of this, lower taxes and stuff. How long has it been since they have done something to produce such things? Or what would that be? That's not what this government is all about. It's about everything else. And the government is comfortable in the situation that has lasted for two years, since it really needs a very limited answer to the politicians. To the extent that it is discussed in politics, it is often about or linked, as was earlier today, to talk about the effects of the epidemic. There, some proselytists, in a lesser sense, are, as it may be called, freer, in fact, on other matters too, but totally without effect. They are allowed to express themselves, and we can see over and over again that their views have no effect on the government work. I assume these senators know exactly, and even if they are ministers, such as the Supreme Court. A financial minister who recently criticized his own government for lack of vision in how to deal with the epidemic. I suppose they know completely that they have a very limited effect, but they want the opportunity to tick in these boxes. This is what we're stuck with. The nature of this cohesion is very well expressed in this incomplete government system of action, which will inevitably mark this terms. We will see a minister want to move to the realm of other ministers. We'll see a problem with where the hired staff are to carry out their duties. It's not good for the government of the country, I'm not talking about after the two years where we need more forethought, more clarity in the way the country's being controlled. No, in return, we have a minister who received a phone call that they were very pleased about, when at last it was possible to complete the switch, although not to complete, that this is still something vague. However, when men were willing to introduce the creation of government, several members of the government received a phone call telling them that they would be ministers. Of course, they were a source of joy, and most of them likely did not care about what was required of them. They already had a chair. And they got more than a chair, they got a recipe because all the Ministers had been prepared for them before they knew they'd be ministers. The government's contract had been negotiated and the workchange had been negotiated in terms of the contributions of a prime projector. As a result, even ministers received a recipe for what they had been, if not opposed, then at least with very serious doubts about it. But I'm sure they'll all finish cooking up this recipe. Although they had dreams of setting their own mark on things and making their own rights, so to speak, they wanted to open their restaurants with their political rights, to carry them out, were given firm counsel to cook at a fast - food place, and the recipe for what to do, and when and they accepted it. Preservation, I say, there are exceptions, in fact, since at least some adviser at least. it is kept on its toes by having their advice unclear for a time, as we have seen. At the end of the day, Madam President, I reiterate my keynote address on this matter. That's a sign for this government. It's based on at least Two of the government groups fought hard at the time when they felt that it was not right for them, now that they feel that it would be right for them, they are firmly following it. It's based on the fact that it's a system control. This is not a political government. Rather, it is a system administration in which the currency is a seat and a role for members of the greater section and their clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u113	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The famous speech that Gunnlaugsson Gunuga's son wrote brings to mind is the Athenian Prayer that deals with what you cannot change. Then there is a proverb in God's own land: It is not necessarily what happens to you but how you react to it and process it. Clearly, this is the case with 12 ministers of a government government that has taken over, and we will not be able to change that. But doesn't know why. A senator of the parish that's involved in this? Of course, there is an increase in cost, and how will we meet him? The sacred number 12 by the very Guð-ni - President at my dinner table. Dr. Gunnar Dal's Dal on the name of Iceland he says that the sea is one of the most ostensible things that rise from the sea. Every new country by soda power gets its own god, its own Isis. That is how the word "kingdom " comes into existence. Iceland is rising from sea to sea by the name of the land of dedication, the land of God. Here we see 12 disciples and Jesús himself at the government table. Isn't this a great place to go to travel service? paritaprevir Will Davíð Gunnlaugsson sail? God's rule in the land of God welcomes you from Israel or from the Christian beds in the United States? I say it's a gray line.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u114	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon never flies low in his speech speech, but I haven't heard much of it. As a result, I have come to recognize that I was not quite prepared to appreciate this opportunity. A senator introduces here. Yet, I feel that it is quite unlikely that those 12 would be the best. Ministers will be made of several men, whether in the southern states of the United States or elsewhere, considered to be like apostles, since these ministers, as I was partly traced in my speech earlier, are not messengers of great woe. They are not publishers of great visions, they are not guides; they are not showing us the way. They are simply working according to what they are put on the side of a system of government, which is not necessarily the result of some divine providence. And as a result, although I am going to consider this possibility, I would like to reiterate that I find it unlikely that those 12 ministers could be considered some sort of new apostles.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u115	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's answer, of course, is a kind of crazy running into the human race when the evening passes. On the other hand, because of the word by the apostle the word "man, " I point out that the word" Minister " is the same as the missionary, the minist. So maybe there's something in this, someone said. If we put all of our fine marlins in Jesusko together with the presidents, I think we'll at least get a good comedy like this for a good occasion. But I'm not gonna keep it any further and I'm just gonna thank you for your talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u116	Madam President. That's where I agree. Senator. I think this government, her job and the way it was founded, could be the subject of an excellent movie that would have Python Monty to form, and I've kind of just begun to wonder at something in the script. Maybe we can. Help each other, me and yah. A senator, trying to put these together and possibly contact the State Radio and see if we're in the mercy there and anyone willing to produce them with us. But because of him. A senator spoke of the foreign word ▪ministHow, then, should be a minister of these steroids, known in Icelandic. Their role is to serve the public. That's where maybe this government goes crazy. True, she has come to appreciate her role as a ministerial servant, but she believes that this role is primarily to her own categories and even more to the administrative system, to the power in which these ministers come into the role of actors. The script is written elsewhere, but the Ministers show up to carry the lines, bring out the printed documents from the council users, and read them or do interviews and say what they should say. They're actors moving other people's manuscripts. But I'm gonna try to follow this idea anyway. The senator left to see if we can combine manuscripts to make a fun picture of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u117	A respectable president. I want to start by saying that I'm not opposed to the government of every time, the government plans a government as she wants it, it's totally up to it. It is important that she take the emphasis before them and even put them in the ministry. But there must also be firmness in the administration order and in the plots, and people must also know their names, knowing what they are talking about at any given time. The changes that have now been made do not bear the mark. They have signs that they should do something new and smart; this is ◯targeting, this is to be sold. That is to be done, and also create a new Ministry for the People's Department, where there is to be an increase in one department. I'd like to begin by saying that this proposal, this document here, a proposal for Congress resolution on the changing order of Council of Iceland -- I'd like to mean it and say it in 1st. Um, it says here, by permission of the President: ▪ The Council concludes, with reference to Article 2. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, No. 115/2011, to support the proposed change in the number and state council at the Iceland Management Board, which includes... and then lists the five departments and the seven that replace them, I think it is unnecessary to list them. This is done by references to Article 2. How Would You Answer? a song on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland? The 2nd issue, by permission of the president, states: ▪ Akvor, a number of advisers and their names should be taken by Presidential decision, cr. Section 15. The constitution, as suggested by the prime minister. The proposal shall be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym which is already under discussion and payment before the release of the Presidential decision. This council proposal here is not a proposal for a president's decision. 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland requires that the prime minister of Iceland submit his proposal for a president's decision. That's what we're supposed to talk about. That's what we're supposed to talk about. Format on this decision, this proposal for Congress, is false. It can't resist 2. The Parliament should properly dismiss this synonym as it does not qualify. How Would You Answer? It's crystal clear in my mind, i.e. that the proposal be submitted to the General Assembly. This proposal is suggested by the prime minister to a court order that he then proposes for the President of Iceland to sign. So shall the trial be, that the prime minister of Iceland proposes that the Presidential decision for the Allied Council with reference to Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland for approval or rejection. After the General has agreed to the motion that the Presidentship of Iceland will sign it and take it to the President of Iceland, where this is signed by the President of Iceland. That's in accordance with law, 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and that is in line with Article 15. The constitution. There are right laws in this country. But the grass here is offering up something that no one understands and has been talking about, does not introduce to us the changes that take place in Iceland's Management Board now. This council proposal is only half the truth, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit more. This is the case with interest that there have already been two president's decision to change the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Presidential decision was issued November 28th, the President's Operation of Communication, No. 126. On that same day, Presidential decision was issued on the switch between administrative matters in Iceland's Management Board, No. 125, dated November 22, 2021. You can't understand the changes in the order of recruitment at the Iceland Management Board without considering these two decisions. That's not possible. No one will be able to understand this change by reading the synopsis alone. It's just not possible, so it's completely crystal clear. We'll have to read this President's decision here as well. So we'll start with that. Consider, for example. The President's decision to switch ministers from November 28, 2021. It says in 2 C.E. The secretary of business, business, cultural, and cultural affairs. That was last November. Last November, too, 8 par. 12th degree. They were talking about the science, industrial, and innovation ministers. These were the changes the government was going to make by the end of November. Today, the minister of travel, trade and cultural culture that has suddenly been changed in January, according to the recommendations under consideration, to the term of the minister of culture and commerce. The name has been changed. It is so stable, and it had been thought so much in November that it had changed its mind. Marine and agricultural minister, according to Presidential measure 28th November, Presidential decision No. 126, should be the Food Minister now. I can discuss this in more detail afterward. Then comes the raisin at the end of the hot dog, and there was a new name for the Minister. That minister was named again, the science, industrial, and innovation minister under the Precinct 20th of November, but now somebody's thought of something a little better, whatever the reason, we can discuss it, too, and now it's called the University, Industrial, and Neo-new Ministry, i.e. Secretary of science, industrial and innovation must be the minister of the university, industrial, and innovation. There's obviously a discrepancy between that, that the Minister of Science is a minister of the university, industry, and innovation. This tells the whole story about how unthinked and how hard it is and how eager it is to do it, all this change. Someone's thought: No, we're not gonna call this the science, industrial and innovation minister, we're going to call the Ministry of University, Industrial and Neons. So I'll explain further to you, the Ministry is just the Minister's office. Everything is done in his name, and having a discrepancy between the name of the Minister and the Ministry simply doesn't work out. What must be done? The decision must be changed since November last; it must be updated according to the proposal under consideration. This is what's going on here. I believe that there is a need to dismiss the points suggested here, and Prime Minister should suggest that the President's decision be made. That's what's supposed to be set up for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. For Christmas, I requested a legal sheet from the Ministry of Presidency for this opinion, and it clearly states that they have not read the law in the law of 2k. It's quoted by the law. Reading the Law text is fundamental in the law. I remember I brought this to you, too, about a letter board. It was very important to read the lyrics of the Law, what the law says there. So, by permission of the president, in the e-mail that I finally got today: ▪ As you can see from the opinion of this article, the purpose of the change was to ensure that a body of Congress would have the opportunity to discuss in some respects the proposed changes in the number of recruitment practices in the form of a synonym. In order for a body of Congress to be able to deal materially with the proposed changes, the President's decision must also be examined from November onward. Only in this way can these changes be understood. Change cannot be understood only from this record, it's just not possible. I'll tell you exactly why it is. It's, for example. Because Presidential decision No. 125 from November 28th, which is about the constitution of administrations between Iceland's Management Board, is the key to this. It discusses matters of government that move between advisers, not just names. The material change was made in November. That's what matters, a respectable president. It was all arranged in the Presidential decision in November. Then we get a set here for some names change, that five agencies are now called something else, that replaces them, and that, in fact, replaced by the Ministry of Education. This kind of work should not be practiced at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. This isn't working. I'm sorry, I'm not on the Board of Directors and Control Committee, but the Committee should discuss this point. I'll try to get into the Committee to discuss this for at least documented that the Allied Council of Iceland is to accept a proposal to make a decision that will fail to resist Article 2. I think it's only right to discuss the European Commission legislation. I don't think they're bad. I know there was some great jurists of the time that entered their contract, Bjarni Benediktsson and Ólafur Jóhannesson, but I believe that the European Council's legislation conflicts and is not fully in line with the segregation of the state, i.e. 2.g. The constitution. The meeting of the Allied Parliament to the order of recruitment is not - let's see Article 2 of the Constitution and also Article 15. which, by permission of the president, states a clear letter: ▪ The President takes orders and releases the minister. He will determine their numbers and switch jobs with them. It does not say that the Council is due to enter the minister's division. It doesn't say anything about it in the constitution, nothing. Yet, someone has decided that the Allied Council should come to the switch between ministers. That's what it says in verse 15. That the president should determine the number of the minister. It doesn't say that the Allied Council should determine the number of Ministers, nothing. It's normal to get in. I was going to write a story about it, but for Christmas holidays and otherwise, there's been no time for it. It may well be that you insert a pen to discuss this because only the presentation of this proposal, how it is submitted, does not inform a body of Congress about the proposed changes in Iceland's Management Board. The senators must read the Presidential decision from November; they must, in particular, do so. 125 because the issues are placed under the Ministers. And he's also known as the President's decision to switch administrations between councils in Iceland's Management Board. This was addressed in 1 Corinthians. and we can take one example that has come up here, that we have the Food Ministry. I remember it at some of the night meetings, that in the new Food Ministry, deforestation, and land healing. Forests and land transplants are not food. It's so important, Mr President, when we name the Ministry that they're placed in them first, that people know what they're talking about, and people can talk about the government, Jón and Gunni, the ordinary people, the common people in the country, and know the system of government. But if someone's going to talk about land healing and talking about government, it's the Food Ministry. Who can think of that? Nobody. There's a government office here that's based on a great tradition called the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry. It was talking about a fishing outside of the water, and it was a sea - fishing minister who came and gave an answer to them. They're professional. But to call it the Food Ministry is simply not correct. It's just to confuse the public with nothing else. We can also take the Ministry of Culture and Business. In the fall there was the travel, trade, and cultural minister, but he will now be seated at the Ministry of Culture and Business. There's a discrepancy between the Minister's Name and the Ministry. It doesn't make sense. Likely, Prime Minister will suggest that two canals, one on the other side of the second November decision, and then this new decision. That's what he can do, because if he accepts only the decision based on the Congress resolution here for the release, there's a discrepancy between the name of the Minister and the Ministry. It doesn't make sense. Everybody knows that. Then the Ministry of Science will be at the university. This shows what kind of heat this is all about and how ill - thoughtful and ill - done it is and how willing it is. It doesn't make it up to 2nd degree. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. I propose it, and I suggested it in 1st. ... thatthe European Commission's legislation will be implemented for further review and will then be in accordance with both Article 15. The constitution and 2nd pars. I hope we can talk about it later. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I hope that I can write about it or we can talk about it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u118	President. In fact, it's interesting as hell. A senator points to and matters as to how simple his own suggestion is, just a list of hot, name - calling issues. If I am not mistaken, points from the Committee's Work, at any rate in our council, have shown that some adjustments were made in the form of a series of plots based on reports. I don't get to that. That's a third-partment comment. But we can't see these changes in the suggestion because they're just the names of the advisers. We have no idea what the transition is like since then. If any adjustments are to be made, then, are they to be considered in the report? It doesn't matter because the only thing we vote for, in the end, is these seven lines of text that are at the top of the Senate resolution proposal. That's what the suggestion is, these seven lines, but the report is just a more accurate explanation. And even if we vote on this, the report is of no importance to the Senate after that. It's a little more important to the proposal as a legal solution, perhaps some small instructions for governments on how to make a pact proposal. But if there are indications leading to a change, a suggestion of what is discussed in this report, we should know. We should vote for it, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The text we're discussing today is not the subject. It's just an explanation for the synopsis proposal. If you read the text in the synopsis proposal, he'll have no idea. If you were to read just the text of the synopsis proposal, not the report, you wouldn't know what was going on. Yes, there is a change in some names. The proposal involves that instead of the Ministry of Employment, Social Affairs, Ministry of Education, etc. If there's any other agency, it's just a change in names. This is because the change was made in November 28, 2011. The issues are given under Presidential decision on the switch between administrations at Iceland's Management Board. That is where this is being divided up, where the material change, is the subject under the Minister. Then there's also a matter of transitional ministers, and this is both in November. Then, in December, the proposed proposal will be made, and the council will be informed of the changes in Iceland's Management Board. It's just not done. If you read this text, this one paragraph, he won't say anything. And then when you start reading the report, there are some explanations there, but the report is no part of the text of a conclusion, not in any way, it is just a diagram. There you can read that forestry and land - healing have become part of the Food Ministry. It's crystal clear to the mind behind 2. and a law on the Council of the Council of the United States was that the General referred to this change, that was to inform the General in substance of the changes. That's what this is all about, and it's amazing to be grumbling about it in three canals. 15 grams. The constitution is clear, with permission of the President: ▪ The President takes orders and releases the minister. He will determine their numbers and switch jobs with them. 16th degree. says: ▪ The Republic and the Ministers of State, who preside over it. That is why he is called the prime minister. [[The president calls.]] It can be any minister if we start to discuss it further, but it must be read in general if they are to be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u120	President. In view of the greater proportion of issues being discussed except the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, it is the consulting and diagnostic centre which is transported under that Ministry; i.e. The majority agree with the opinion that the Agency is correctly moving there. But it's not a new proposition, it's a kind recommendation or something like that. Does the government still intend to transport a research and diagnostic facility? And what about high school, that's where we're talking about? There is also concern that high school management issues are not properly understood in the synonym. When you're trying to dig through why you're doing one thing and not another, the explanation is always superficial. One of the main reasons for making these changes in the synopsis is that they have to collapse the invisible walls of civilization, that they do things that are inaccessible and of all kinds. But the majority say that in general it is not the only thing that helps to determine whether the implementation of government is effective and efficient is that they are being heard by the same Ministry. On the contrary, the invisible walls of founded civilization could exist between the office within the Ministry, as if between recruitment practices, and more important that within the board, active cooperation and cooperation are taking place. Why, then, there is a difference between counseling if necessary, only working together and cooperating. This does not explain why one unit is being moved to another Ministry, nor does it explain why active cooperation does not solve it. And what would be less expensive? I have no idea, it's not trying to explain it, it's the big problem with all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. A report with this proposal for the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Commission, as discussed here, contains all kinds of information, about the information revolution, of breaking down the invisible walls of civilization, of cooperation and coordination within the board of directors. They're creating a new Ministry. I worked at the Ministry of Economics in my day, and then I was a member of a legal class and was just working on it, and I couldn't be everywhere. There must be some offices that deal with certain issues. If you deal with this, you're not about the rest. It is always a workaholic. So it doesn't change the text that is here discussed, which is a proposal for the interpretation of the minus report, explains nothing. It's crystal clear. It will then be used, it will be prepared for the President of Iceland, and that is the complete document, that is what should have been brought here to the General Assembly of Iceland. I also believe that all of this should have been in one president's surgery, by the way. 15th .. not in three first-sections. We're actually just getting what's least important, some name of the plot. The names of the advisers have been set, and there are the stupid names of stewards in November, three at least. Secretary of travel is dead and the Minister of Science is dead, he has become the university, industrial, and innovation minister. And then there is the Food Ministry, with the forestry and land healing. The truth is, I thought it would be, I'm just so stupid, that the press would be talking about it. It doesn't seem to be. I'm a little surprised. The media's discussion, about what is going on in this house, and in this institution, is absolutely inadequate. I don't think the media have read a single Senate document in this case or examined it in any sense, or presented it to the public. It's just crystal clear, there are two canals available since November. [[The president calls.]] That's where the change is. The other is to change the name of the Ministry, and you can do it at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u122	President. Hv. paritaprevir This is where Hildur Sverrisdóttir, in reply to my reply to his earlier talk, "What's the river? " What's going on in there? The point of the question that I could not answer was that I was complaining about what was in the committee's list of parts relating to this local report on how things are going to change and bring up lawsuits and create new Ministry, etc. I said that we need to know what the base is: what's the situation now? Explaining why this situation is bad and explaining how the changes will improve. If we don't have that explanation, then any explanation that remains can be made. The following comments are extremely easy, when the problem is not foretold in advance and how these suggestions solve that problem. As a result, because a part of presenting such a problem is creating a cost assessment and how a new government decision makes things less efficient or more efficient or, like, something similar, a decision should be made on a certain basis. What do we expect from making this Ministry of Industrial Affairs? The current dimension is large, we expect it to be even more than an efficiency expansion that may not necessarily be possible in an accurate account but may have some effect in rural society or other areas in the community. It's a mistake. The pay is not one dollar that only affects the balance account. It is a larger field of view to be seen by the government. This is very clear on official financial laws. There should be no question about what the problem is because governments should know. They actually lay the basis for what kind of profit they evaluate, as their choice, because within this methodology is an option analysis: we have a particular problem today, and possible solutions are A, B, C, and D. Similar to a new road or a new energy line or something, they are often made up of several possibilities for setting the road; with a bridge, with tunnels, A, B, C, etc. Then there is an optional analysis. These costs vary. There are different environmental impacts from these pathways. Our assessment of environmental impacts is not necessarily money, of course not, but something that the government says is important. Then they offer the political vision that these are the points in this way that a black man, e.g. The type of swamp or piss or something like it, they cannot make a money estimate, yet they will choose a course that is less challenging than any other means of money because it defends these material values. It is only a political decision, and it is our decision to criticize or commend it, of course. This is the foundation the government should explain. What's going on in plus is not just an excel file, it's never been that way, even though I'm repeatedly accused of being some excel-frew, which I'm not at all. I've only asked for the minimal price assessment, the gross cost analysis instead of the fact that there's no improvement, because it's the current situation, there's no cost analysis, no profit analysis, no choice analysis, or anything like that except within e.g. Transport, road fixation, that kind of thing. In this regard, however, there is evidence of professional work. That methodology, however, needs to be advanced in much more government affairs. We know this, it's for knowledge of this, it's just not being used and not being carried out. The only reason I can foresee it is simply that such an analysis often takes away the favors of politicians. They don't like it. They want to be able to say: " We want it this way because we feel it. They do not want to reason with anyone else, for it may be surprising that they are wrong. On the other hand, we in Pirates want a professional diagnosis. We want to have them well and from independent sources so that we can show that the choices we know and know that there are evidences that we can say this is being handled well with the public money, here it is, that society is being reformed in some way and it is accessible to black people, so that anyone can sharpen and criticize. We want to get criticism from citizens, from stakeholders, from anyone. To be critical, these basic factors need to be established. You need to know what the problem is and what your options are to solve this problem. What is the cost analysis in terms of options? What is the basis for what choice? That's where the political decision-making begins. It begins with the fact that the analysis of the profit is not always material, sometimes inconsistencies, and then a political decision may have to be made to choose an alternative that is less difficult by the excel document than we merit politically see several other factors; social development, environmental and other factors, more important than excel results. That's what's missing in this council arrangement. Here we have political emphasis on the government and some promise of a localized report that cannot be performed objectively. There's always a way to make up. We have a similar arrangement in the annual reports of Ministers where the government will submit its policy in a financial program. In this regard, she should explain why she chooses the measures offered to solve certain problems, explain the cost, explain the profit to explain the budget, and then in the annual reports of a minister, which should explain how we were able to do so, whether it was better or worse, whether it was maligned, overexplained, or what we can learn from it, and whether we can do better when we try. If we don't try, we won't be better. We have this arrangement for the Minister's annual reports. In fact, this local report is comparable to that. But, at the moment, the Minister's annual report is after an explanation. Because of the way this synonym proposal is set up and how to prepare the majority of the committees, there is nothing that can be placed on hand to evaluate. It offers a follow - up explanation. And who really wants to guess that the government will have an impartial assessment of its own decisions? Really? If I were to guess from a given experience what it will be like when some local standard report comes -- I expect the government will criticize the results of that statistical report, but only because it's missing the reasons, which means that it can't be made a fair local report - it'll just be called political or something about it as if it's just political criticism. No, it obviously is not if the essentials of the report are defective. The content may well be political, absolutely sure, no problem, but the local report is also, we need to be clear. It's also political. So, of course, it is normal to bring political criticism of political document, absolutely nothing at all. There will not be facts, no chance that there will be facts in this local report. I don't think there's a chance. I can't wait to be surprised, that's always the way it is. But I evaluate it so from experience that it's not possible. There's a few points in this council arrangement and I think more of the things I find interesting. For e.g. The Department of Wende has been making a major contribution to the legislatures and the rest of the planning and so forth. It's very easy to believe. They're putting the same thing under the same hat and it'll increase efficiency. There is no evidence to suggest that this is a lie. However, I pointed out earlier in answer that it could be very unfortunate to have, for example, one to have. The quality control of the same hand as the decision and the implementation of it simply makes it self - esteem, not quality control, and can easily be confused. Then I'd like to point out and go to the academics that are being torn to pieces, completely to bits; a university there, but a elementary school there, and higher education in another place. This is not a synergistic effect. There's no teaming up in education. I can't figure out how to use one argument together to achieve efficiency and effectiveness, etc. and then another reason to scatter, and both to achieve the same purpose. Because the whole point here is to bring down the government's invisible walls and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination. In one place, it means taking many lawsuits and setting them together, and in another place, it means taking many lawsuits, which are definitely comparable, academic, and scattering them. What does that tell you? This simply tells you what's said in the opinion of a secondary part, that it's just a political decision-making thing. And the gossip also tells you that part of it is scattering the college language because the Ministry of Education was in total failure, complete fuck-up, and the only way to fix it was to jump into it in order to get it back together later. It was simply complicated. You heard stories of screaming and such between different parties, which are not something to be done on a cooperative scene. But this is gossip. I don't sell it any more than I bought it. The only solid argument I have for problems with the Ministry of Education is a number of my queries to the previous council, where the Ministry of Education was the worst failure in answering queries. But it took the longest time to answer queries. But let it be. Regardless of this, there are cases of a group of lawsuits that are being put together in order to create efficiency and cooperation, as well as examples of a series of lawsuits being scattered to create efficiency and cooperation and something similar. At any rate, I don't understand how the same evidence applies in both cases. Then it comes to what I find very interesting, because in the report of this synonym, I have made an explanation here: especially in the fall of the invisible walls of our civilization, and in cooperation, consultation and coordination within the board of directors. The majority, however, adds this, by permission of the president: In general, in the opinion of the greater part, it is not a single outcome to determine whether the implementation of administrative matters is effective and efficient that they are being heard by the same Ministry. I'll totally agree with this, no problem. In contrast, the invisible walls of founded civilization may survive between office within the department, as is the case between recruitment practices. I'll agree with that, too. Of course, this can happen. ▪ In terms of the greater part, it is more important that within the board, active cooperation and cooperation take place. Then you ask yourself this big question: " Which is the growth in effective cooperation and cooperation that is more successful, e.g. in education, or by scattering them between counseling, to break down the invisible walls? Is that especially explained? No, nothing like that? Is that something to explain? Because there are options, here we have a problem, whether it's a problem with cooperation, consultation and coordination, which would be in the Ministry of Education, either to promote cooperation and cooperation, to work together, as it were, in terms of more things, or to scatter it here and there. These are two options. There are other options, such as, but these are at least those on which both the synonym and the opinion of the greater portion are added. Do you see which option is better? Is there a diagnosis of pros and cons? Is it clear that there is no increased cooperation and cooperation within education and therefore it is obvious that higher education needs to be put at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Colleges of Colleges and elementary school and high school in the Children's and Education Ministry? Where is the explanation that there is a better solution than some type of active cooperation and cooperation mentioned here as a possibility that working toward that goal is more important? I find this very remarkable, that these options are being discussed without explaining to us, for example. Each of them costs more than that. Let's start with who would be more likely to produce better results in shorter and longer periods of time. I think it is likely, and then I guess I'm guessing, I accept perfectly, that spreading the education system at three different departments could do something to a shorter time if we assume that we are there now, for them scattered, for some communications or co-operation problems. But for a long time, I think there will definitely be a problem. When, then, will unity have to be restored to the same harmony as the State Department? Is that during this election period? Wouldn't it be natural to have some choice analysis in this regard, some stage illustrations about it? It's a very interesting convolutation motion after all, because it's based on a way of thinking, "Oh, my God, I'm sorry." But are you going to tackle professional issues? We in Pirates want to get these two mixed up better, not have a separate point. To make informed decisions, we need professional analysis. This is neither one of us. Here we only have the political diagnosis without having an idea of the effects of the decisions taken, such as the driving force. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson came in earlier, changing names on councils. That is in the final analysis of what this synonym is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u123	Mr. President. I listened to a talk. A senator who, at least in the first part, discussed the cost-benefit analysis, which I think is often very important and a good price-paying and important. But I'm trying to get better into where it really is. A senator considers the beginning to be the turnaround in the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, i.e. This exact eulogy proposal. So I want to ask you why. A senator, for I wasn't quite sure about this from his speech: Does he feel that the prime minister should be able to appoint a government minister for a certain time, or does he think there are other ways in which he might be more successful? Because it speaks of the role of prime minister and its active implementation in line with the development of projects, new challenges, and the political emphasis of governments at any given time being among the most important executives of the European Commission. Because in order to make other changes, I believe that the prime minister can order schemes as the policy is set up to serve the proposed goals that are traced to the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u124	President. Yes, it is prime minister to order a scheme to achieve government goals, definitely. But part of that is explaining the policy to the council and how this order achieves them goals, not just by saying that the Ministry of Industrial Affairs solves these problems, but by explaining the problem being solved. The only problem I hear is that there are some invisible walls of the administration, without further explanation. I'd really like to know which of these invisible walls are, quite enormous. How do they describe themselves? Why do they describe themselves in exactly the issues being brought between them, or that are being united in the Ministry? Such an explanation is something that we and the nation need to hear so that we can justify the increased cost, for example, because these problems usually cost us some money or trouble; longer waiting lists, some of these, as mentioned here on the housing issues. But the solution is often not, as has been noted in the comments of Iceland's Archaeological Society, the one they say should be used. They point out that the problem is voluntary, not the regulations, but simply that are not in harmony with the rules or rules that make it very damaging. This changes our options for success if we know the problem we are trying to solve. And when we are not told what problem is being solved, we cannot determine whether this is the solution to this problem or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u125	Mr. President. In this discussion with the proposal, the aim is to ensure that the Council of Management is best equipped to handle the challenges of community activities ahead of us in accordance with the emphasis laid in the government covenant during the coming period. What I don't understand about the language of that day. A senator would agree that if he agrees to the highest level. Prime Ministers can appoint works in councils in the Iceland government, how they are to be anything other than political leadership to keep in mind the task management process. Because that's what's being done here, it's how Prime Minister Worker operates. But okay. I'm just celebrating, though. One senator believes that the prime minister should have this role. I'd like to use the last seconds to ask why. A senator whether it is necessary to make changes that are consistent with the times of the day. I would like to point out that at the time it was considered to be very dangerous or not to serve the purpose of establishing a new Ministry, which was then the Environment Ministry. I think history showed us that it was extremely important. [[The president calls.]] That is why I think it was so important that the prime minister at any given time should have this opportunity and this role that the emphasis on politics should be placed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u126	The president reminds us of a limited talk period in reply and in reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u127	President. I can't quite figure out why this message doesn't seem to make it. It's one thing to say that these are the goals, I believe that people are all willing to reach them. It is one thing to say, though, that these changes will achieve them and other goals to explain how they will achieve them. I'm saying, there's no explanation. It is a requirement that the Council be made in a government because we are a republic of a conniving government. We're here making decisions about funding because we appreciate the use of their resources positive for society as a whole. If that is not explained to us why financial resources for one project more than another are positive for society, why should we allow that authority? In fact, this is a request, and even a wonderful increase in financial resources has been agreed on, without really knowing what we're getting for that increased funds. It is only political guesswork that will produce some results that will be provided in some local report, which is not founded on any value. They just said, "Yeah, we knew this was gonna happen, and we loved doing it. Well, explanatory, so to speak. I want to explain why this is a good solution to the problems that the government's invisible walls are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u128	A respectable president. Here earlier today, I requested to speak to the President's conference board, where the National Institutes of Iceland has refused to grant a petition to the Parliament's Committee on the dispensing of data and information. Today, the National Institute of Foreign Affairs has taken up the matter of sending part of this information to the council, but not all the data asked on the request. I believe that this is an attempt by the Foreign Institute to kill the case on distribution, to delay the processing of applications, and to continue the efforts of the Foreign Institute to manage the work of the Parliament. Again, I pray that the president will defend the honor of the Allied Icelanders and follow the legal obligation of his government to provide information and evidence in accordance with a request on the basis of General Assembly Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u129	President wants to guess. The head of the General and Education Committee had a conversation with the president earlier today in order to include him in the current case. There's a senator here. The president intends to continue diluting on how this case stands, in order that it may be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u130	Mr. President. The U.S. Civil Rights Act states that when the General Assembly grants citizenship by law, the Foreign Institute should give a review of their application. This is one of the most clear laws we have. You can read and see what the Agency should do. Therefore, it is surprising that the Foreign Institute has responded today to clear indications that she has failed to fulfill her role for the General by turning in her applications and not the comments that she is going to work for each application.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u131	Application reviews...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u132	A respectable president knows as well as the authority here shows how the Agency repeatedly tried to submit the order of the Agency during the last terms of election. I hope she lets them go through with bad habits and accept the law. I declare that I am prepared to support the President in all his efforts to get the Agency to do their job with the legislature. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u133	A respectable president. It has been interesting to listen to the discussions that have taken place today. There is certainly a difference of opinion as to how a switch to the Board of Directors is to be. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Steinunn Árnadóttir of the Year's Daughter that it is, of course, a political decision on how to be divided. But I'd like to mention a word, too. paritaprevir Hildur's Sverrisdóttir's responsibility that this was the ideal opportunity to learn from what was going badly during the last term when the same government was sitting, or at least Same categories. You believe that people learn from experience and learn from the mistakes made. I may want to find out only later who was one of these mistakes and how nothing is being done in them. But before we go there, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson Eyjólfur complained about the kind of shape and process involved all of this. Legally, we're only talking about a few lines, seven of which, in fact, say nothing more than the office of Iceland's Management Board. It is followed by a sledge of pages, one ten pages, that is made up. In fact, if I want to go for a while, I do. I can only play with the names of the scheme because I can't make adjustments to my own report. It's exactly what I see in the report that I see the big thing that would have to change, but there's no way, no process, for me to make those changes. In fact, the committee herself could make no changes in the synopsis, other than those who touched the names. Yes, she could give some text about what you think, but it has no legal value. And that's part of this process. One of the things that we at the Council try to do is try to increase our knowledge and conversation with appropriate partners about all the changes we are making. In view of the latter opinion of the greater part, it can be seen that there were quite a few who visited the committee and sent in envelopes. However, members of Parliament may not have experienced what is called the stage of Amstein. This Amstein article wrote ten years ago, reminding me that it was around 1950 how it could be in different levels of consultation. At the bottom of this ladder, it was to have absolute power, you had no consultation with anyone, you did nothing. But at the top of this ladder is a direct democracy. Amstein defined a step on this ladder, where further consultation is being made with the people who make decisions. The remarkable thing at Amsteinn's ladder is that one of these processes is what is often called an imaginary consultation. In other words, talking with people is going through the process, but they are never going to listen to anything. I believe that the process of this council resolution through the council is exactly at that stage. This shouldn't surprise me, because I've seen these things happen before. For a few months, I worked for one of the United Nations major organizations, where I was working out because of a disaster that had exploded around the world. At that time, it was just going through reorganization at that large institution. Instead of acting like the politicians here, since there were three parties making the decisions, there were consultations. Millions of dollars were paid to get a respected and well - known counselor to come and talk to everyone, and to find out what was needed to be fixed. The workers were really happy, and finally they were listening to all their comments. Partners, including countries such as Iceland, were asked what needs to be changed. Team members responded and were really happy, now they were finally being listened to. The counselor then returned a 40 - page report on all the changes to be made, and I read them through and thought: " Wow, finally the United Nations will be an apparition that can work fast and well and do things without being forever in some nonsense around writing. The report was presented, and then the decisions on what to do were made. And, yes, a respectable president, it was decided to lay down one department, one committee. All the other ideas, all the other things that would have made things so much better - they were to wait on it only. This was exactly the same imaginary discussion that we have seen happening in this case. People believed that they might be listened to this time. But no, in fact, we at the Generals only have the power to decide whether or not. The Minister of Education, Industrial and Neoplasms will be called HIN or VIN in abbreviated, scientific, industrial and innovation minister, or university, industrial and innovation ministers. Yes, consultation is something that could truly be added here at the General Assembly and is closer to having a direct democracy or, at least, a direct democracy. agreeing that this includes listening. I'd like to go back to what I can do better. We have seen many times, not just during the last term, but over and over and now, today, the ill - gripped affairs of foreigners and the affairs of the trustees. We have both the present and the former Ministry of Justice and Internal Affairs, apparently with agencies and staff who are not doing what the law says they should do. You would've thought it had its way into a change in the Council of Control. But no, it was not to be stirred because it is just a foreign matter. We need to be able to think about people, no matter where they come from, and we need to be able to provide them with decent care and ensure that their human rights are equal to ours. These are people who have often gone through terrible things to get here. I'd like to mention just what kind of people we've been through here and then face the written and illegal handling. I'd like to use this opportunity to tell one or two stories about people, but there are not people who are in a process right now. Maybe it'll end here, we'll see. They are people who live in the hope of finding a place where human rights are held in high esteem and peace. I want to tell you about Sara. Sara fled her home country in Côte d'Ivoire, and she went to Libia, hoping to get to Europe. Sara is one of the lucky ones because when she was young, she did not suffer the usual circumcision in her home country. But after she married a young woman, and her new mother - in - law found that everything went crazy. Fearing being forced into surgery, she fled to her parents, but her father threw her out and took her to her mother - in - law. There, she became heavily beaten and used her first opportunity to run out from there to flee to the border to Malibu. She spent a few months in Malibu before she set out to go to Libia through Algeria. Shortly after arriving in Libya, Sara was arrested and put in prison in a suburb. In prison the guards raped Sara every day, until she gave birth to a son on March 26, 2020. It was her fellow prisoners who welcomed the child, and when prison guards saw the child cast her out of prison with her son. Today, Sara lives in a suburb of Tripoli, along with 36 other women and seven young children. She and the women try to collect themselves for a boat ride across the Mediterranean Sea, such a trip cost $200,000. Icelandic, something that is almost impossible for a young woman like Sara to collect for herself. I'd rather die in Libya than go back home, Sara said in tears to the help workers who met her. Women like Sara are to be received here, and we are to give them a secure future. We're a rich country, and we're not supposed to have an institution that looks like the Icelandic welfare system, an institution that says it's there to stop it from being filled with people in Iceland. This is one of the things that should have been fixed in the new board of directors of Iceland, but it wasn't done. Instead, it was decided to increase the number of people in need. Instead, it was decided that they would spend a lot of money just to atone one political party that needed more government. At the same time we come to terms with these matters, we do not know how much this council proposal, which really is just the Ministry's list of names, will cost us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u134	Mr. President. Of course, the Council of Iceland's Management Board does not change existing laws or put down institutions. As government, the task force of prime minister, is now being shifted to form a government directive in a way that considers it more suitable to implement its affairs. Although, of course, there are all kinds of laws that I think most of us would like to change, I think it is important to keep our attention on these matters. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator when the time comes for Iceland to be a good guest of refugees. It's important that people come here and sit here when they escape a tragic situation. As a matter of fact, I believe that by bringing the ministry to the Department of Social Affairs, we are adding just the extent to the setting on this important issue. But what I feel has not happened to me. A member of the body is: Does he comment that it is in the task force of a prime minister to order counsel as a government might consider appropriate for each occasion in order to get his own business? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u135	A respectable president. I'm going to start by answering that question. As I said in the beginning, and indicated a word. A senator, I believe it is a political decision on how this transition is supposed to be. But I don't understand the process we're in here if we're just gonna let it be a political decision. And first what. A senator mentioned that it was being transferred the services of candidates for international protection, in the report, it's not in the Senate itself, I would have, if it had been a bill and the report was something I could make a change in, change the last phrase there, but it says: The Ministry of Justice will continue to provide legal assistance and standard administration in handing out applications for international protection and patents in this country. I'd like to see this article either go out or there's the Department of Social Services. I was very happy to hear that. A senator wants to make changes in the laws for the better so that we are accepting people, we are doing our job, and we do them in a decent, humanitarian way. I'm offering all my help sitting down with a bang. A senator, and all members of the council who support that matter, regardless of whether they are in a government or a government position, to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm glad that I'm clear about it. A senator agrees that it should be in the circle of activity and in the realm of the prime minister each time it is time to put the political lines at the moment of emergency. It is simply in accordance with the legal environment that we now operate as the proposal is proposed in the form of a synonym, as this is done. In various lands around us, prime minister, or government, simply makes these changes, since the government and the prime minister are responsible for their actions and actions. In the case of refugees: As I said, I think it is extremely important here to transfer the ministry to the Department of Social Affairs. There is something we in the left green have fought for and put tremendous emphasis on, and I really hope this will improve our ministry. On the other hand, I believe, at least it's such a matter, normal that it's an institution that's going through applications, i.e. which publish, and it's in a much wider group than just this group in the country, but it may well be that they should be moved in time. [[The president calls.]] I think this is a huge step.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u137	President. Yes, we agree on where political power lies, we agree that there should be a process. I'd say that this proposal for Congress agrees with the changed names of the Iceland Board of Directors - it should, at least, name it because it's the only thing in it. For any reason, the next time the order of recruitment has to be changed, whether in three years and nine months, or if there is something shorter in it, we may add to the synony proposal to have the role that each Ministry should have, in fact, a possible opportunity to discuss and suggest changes that may be made by the Prime Minister. But as it is today, it is something we cannot change, not just the names. I'd like to agree too with what. A member of the Parliament that it is truly a good change for candidates to be given international protection from the Ministry of Justice. I hope he wants what he wants. A senator has shown today, saying that if he wants left green, he is strong enough to at least see the category and other groups who are willing to really work on these matters together - that we sit down and we fix this together, across all classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u138	A respectable president. I'm on the board of administration and monitoring committees that discussed this big case. The matter was discussed at the council a year ago, where many senators expressed concern over this decision made by the heads of the administrations, but I intend to give them their decision. In the process of being a member of the Committee, we received a variety of parties, and there were some comments on the subject. If I only speak to my own degree, I may have hoped that the comments of the stakeholders to care for the changed arrangements would calm us down, but that proved to be the case. Many commentators put up a very similar worry, as was described here in the Assembly Hall of 1st. on this subject and it's been described here today. Sadly, the reviews confirmed my fears and many others because the changes are not planned and may not be taken on the grounds that are given. When the order of recruitment was changed in 2012, the smaller part of the assembly responded by speaking directly to the change and paying votes against it. The minority opinion executive for that matter was something remarkable, the highest. General's current president. Criticizing the memory part, then even. little preparation, but he is described in the opinion as follows, by permission of a president: It appears that the proposal was first made up of the government's program in connection with the debate in the Ministerial group at the end of the year and in a memo for January 10, 2000. the establishment of the Management Board on the Management Board leads to this feature in a single sentence. About the same time, the prime minister of a three - man group assessed the pros and cons in this regard and produced them in February. His findings were basically on the way that either the Ministry of Economic and Business needs to be strengthened by current or economic projects to the Ministry of Economics and other projects for the Ministry of Business. They were named pros and cons. And only later, it says: ▪ No other diagnostic work or consultation with institutions or stakeholders can be seen to have taken place on this point in the preparation of the Parliamentary arrangement. This view, then, of a minority group at the council, which is now made up of the greater part that is behind the Council's decision to change the order of counsel, as discussed here, calls attention to two things: on the one hand, for a clear position on the government's authority on change in the general order of the Council, which is reflected in the clear opposition of the Party and a vote in the case that may not conflict with what is being said today. However, because even appointing a special committee to consider the desired scheme of recruitment, and making recommendations that reform was not sufficient for such a major decision; a decision that has been made here by three individuals without any agreement, without immediate preparation and without a clear plan of preparation. It was only to be, as the young people say, who, on beloved ylshes, are likely somehow growing on the way of letting go, not thinking too much of the consequences, and just trusting that everything will be all right. It is only hoped that members of the council, then part of a smaller section but now part of a greater part, may have a different view of the case, since even members of the administration classes, other than their presidents, may not seem to have been consulted. A decision that requires hundreds of millions of jobs, and may even be likely to interfere with service to the citizens of this country, was taken in a back room that may not have been smoking - filled, but it is certain that it was not very large. In a paper with the synopsis as discussed here, the President's permission indicates that there are: ▪... to bring down the invisible walls of civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation and coordination within the board of directors' board. That sounds good. In fact, it sounds like they're running the Icelandic government and governance system as they've been used here on land so far. You see, in the United States, the so - called Ministerry, as has been discussed today, where the politician insists that each minister has a tremendous amount of space, not to be questioned, in order to govern his Ministry and its issues. Of course, in my opinion, if it's the government's intention to go so far as to tolerate that politicians, I may not necessarily agree that the governments that have been taken here are the ideals for them to be. There is, however, no evidence that this will happen. This government, already ruling for one terms, has not given us the slightest reason to believe that it is capable of other functions. And no such suggestions follow any plan of the subject or other material that creates hope in that subject, just big declarations. This report gives reasons for the changes proposed here. It says, by permission of the president: It aims to ensure that the Council is fully equipped to handle the challenges of community activities ahead of time in accordance with the emphasis laid in the government Treaty for the coming terms of the election. Then there is a word with little meaning that all of this is in harmony with the objective of the administrative work. Coming up with the raisins at the hot dog tip, with the permission of the President: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. It is not enough to argue that consultation and cooperation will be carried out; rather, it is claimed that the purpose of all these exorcisms is to promote cooperation and cooperation. These reasonings are unconvincing when you examine them. The report points to the General report as a ideological basis for the proposed changes. However, there are many of the changes presented in the General report. It particularly found that the Ministry was too many and too small. As a result, vast changes in the Council of Control were organized to strengthen it together and reduce recruitment. So it is a little humorous that during the changes made after a crash, in the reverse context of what is being done here, the General's report quoted. I'm going to argue with my case regarding the big statement that the government has not shown itself properly to ensure consultation and agreement between counseling. Then let me give you an example that is close to me, since I have worked with refugees and refugees for the past few years. They're under the Ministry of Justice, at least The majority of the topics, application delivery. The Ministry of Justice in this government was a minister of Independence. Prime Minister is a member of the left movement ◯ green supply, which has a policy in the affairs of refugees whom I like very much and deeply agree with and had great faith. In fact, I hoped that the seat of that company in the government might have a positive effect on that group. In double if not three or four, I have just picked up the number, the Justice Minister of this government has proposed a bill for changing the laws of foreigners that are primarily aimed at limiting the possibility of refugees to settle here. It was the minister of justice of this government that repeatedly defended the decision of the National Institute of Iceland to refer children, down to a few months of age, to the junkyards in Greece, literally, where they have no future, no security, not guaranteeing access to food or clothing, can hope to get help in the church once a day, and certainly not access to education or other fundamental life conditions that we consider to be self - sufficient for each child. In an effort to contact the prime minister for the government's actions in the matter of refugees, due to a policy of prime minister who is not in accordance with the procedure, she referred to a minister of justice and took full responsibility. It was the Minister of Justice of this government that defended the implementation of the Foreign Institute to direct refugees to the street simply because they refused to give the police direct permission to move them out of the country and directly back to what they would most describe as hell. Where was the discussion, and where was the cooperation with them? However, in the suggestions we are discussing here today, there is some evidence that there are evidence of a change in political emphasis, which I really don't hope. It has to do with a change in academic views where significant changes are proposed by a division of the Ministry of Education and Culture. There, school levels are divided between advisers and other matters that have been carefully considered at the previous stage in the discussion. In the details of the management and monitoring committee, the problem was under way, and in conversation with the manager, many U.S. Commission said that little attention was given to education in the government's proposal. It also included high reviews of high school, where concern is expressed by the process of dating in high school, but a greater proportion of high school students in Iceland are in adulthood, over 18 years of age, but not as a child, although the case is organized into education and child - care departments. Being expressed by concern that there was not enough thinking behind it. It is interesting to read the responses of a greater part of the management and monitoring committee in these indications, they are not meaningful. To this end, the majority of the items have the following to say: The more part of the application is the importance of high school and insists on the minister of education and child care to ensure strong consultation and cooperation with high school. Again, we should trust in consultation and cooperation, probably also between recruitments, where these lawsuits will land between them. Then it was made clear in the discussion of the proposal and the report with her, with permission of the president: ▪... reflects the vision that higher education and culture are primarily economic instruments. A connection between culture and trade and university education with industry and innovation is likely to be made up of the important roles of these basic wisdom, creation, and joy of life in the country. Wrote this to the very review of the National Institute of Education itself, by permission of the President: The primary definition of education as a labour market and social resources is to increase the likelihood of distance and separation from the general educational system. This further describes concern that the government's emphasis on education is changing to a different direction, but we might hope many, as well as clients. They expressed concern that institutions that perform roles closely related to the university - libraries, even the University Library itself - are separate from the university, schools. This does not include a single word in the members of the section. No answers. Thus, the majority of the management and monitoring committees place their trust in the three people who spread these large in a smokeless back room with no man, cross fingers, and hope for the best. I'm going to agree with the words of the local senator of the anti - government, current marine dignitary and agricultural minister, when she criticized the changes in the order of recruitment a few years ago. ▪ The first part of my life feels that the matter is unconvinced, is not a professional rationalization, is being scattered by sectoral measures instead of integrating and contributing to the responsible provision of public funds and more effective advisers, and is finally aware, of the problem of cost evaluations and planning, of the preparation was a significant obligation. On the contrary to what is said in a report on the motion, there is much to worry that the change may have a damaging effect on the position of many important issues of the government. There is a lack of adequate preparation of the motion, and there is a lack of evidence, and the logical support that is given is not convincing, as I have discussed here. Thus, the explanations given give rise to questions and simply worry that they are the nation's real interests, and the political metropolitan interests that are involved; concern that these are primarily political thrones; a chair that will not only cost hundreds of millions of dollars; yet, while proper expense is not available, it will lead to the expense of people's well - being, even children, because of predictable service limitations that are likely to result from these problems. As we have noted so many times today, these changes have been determined into a very narrow group and have been recognized to have been the main point of consultation with experts, yet little, and really just about how to make this happen without any notice that the consequences have been noted in advance. I'm going to finish this time by simply reading the words of the highest. The current U.S. tribunal President of the Allegorical Component, who agrees with the changes for the right decade, by permission of a president: Surely, it is the right course and the need to reevaluate it regularly. However, this needs to be done with better policy and better vision than is indicated in this proposal. It is also important to consult as the vastest solidarity of these arrangements, so it does not have to be among the first actions of every government to change the structure of the country. Time - to - date changes in these topics reduce the firmness and leadership of the management board and cause problems for both those working within the board and for all who have to deal with it, whether with institutions, stakeholders, or individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u139	A respectable president. Maturity aid notes in his review of a judicial hearing, with permission of a president: It is clear and unmistakably a key role for disabled children, as per law on the Agency, No. 83/2003. Therefore, the National Institute of Development thus gives no compelling evidence to support the intentions of the Parliament's decision to transfer the Council and Analysis Centre from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment to the Ministry of Education and Children. The organization feels that this change is not in the interests of disabled children at all, nor is it designed to ensure a better compatible service to disabled children and their success as the government emphasizes. Then it is still necessary to reiterate the organization to a far greater degree than it has been to serve the counseling and diagnostic centre in the case of adult disabled persons. With reference to the above, therefore, the National Association challenged Developmental Funds to the government, to the management and monitoring committee, and to reexamine the plans for the transfer of legislation and analysis centres from the Department of Social and Work. It is obvious, then, that the organization does not consider this change to be made in behalf of disabled children, and there I agree completely with them. This change does not focus on interfaith for the group where it is one of the most vulnerable groups in society. That the issues of disabled children differ from those of disabled adults are of great concern to those close to this class. It is absolutely essential that the government's advisory and diagnostic centre be far more effective in disabled adults and that there is a great lack of resources for this group, such as for other vulnerable groups in the country. It is also important to remember that associating with those who are disabled is involved. Changing the language of the disabled to different departments does not mean that the ministry is a matter of success or harmony. The interpretation proposal also speaks of housing matters. Since the facilities of disabled persons were also mentioned in the review of development aid, it is clear that they are also deeply concerned that the Social and Work Department will no longer oversee the housing of disabled persons but will go to the Department of Internal Affairs. Here, it is important to reason on the basis of why these changes are good and what their goals are and how they are measured. It's not done. It is important that professional work practices be conducted by governments and that they can be reasoned well with why these changes are beneficial. There is talk of breaking the invisible wall. Where, though, are unseen walls being set up? Could it be that they are setting up invisible walls in the affairs of the disabled? I don't know. There is something we need to know. This is the group that we have to best protect in our community, and the review is not taken into account, and nothing is even considering these possibilities. How does it affect the staff when they don't know where they're going to be? It's just something you've learned at government school and the like, that consultations are very important to a working partner, and so on. That is why you think: " Wait, why don't you talk to a specialist in the council? Why is this not done in consultation, since other forms of government are no longer so successful if I can say so? But there must be evidence for change, especially the government of the country. If they are going to change and add a whole ministry and change so much - and this requires a lot of money and money - then the evidence needs to be very stable and they need to be understandable as well as most and in some respects too. What are the goals of this exchange of counselors, and what are the basic objectives? How are they measured? Is there too much to expect to be predicted and measured? To have some sort of measurement of how this is now and what we want to change and how we are going to achieve it, and how to measure it? If we have to go back or change something again, how do we know what that was like if we do not have measurements? This is something you learn in study: this is how you see results. You start from what's going on, and then you work out your goals and see if this works or not. At any rate, these are questions that arise when you consider the requested Parliamentary decree. But what about advice from experts and other sources? It may be worth considering how best to do so and how to use experts in the planning process. Of course, a person is not an expert in any language group or in every area, but we have very skilled experts who, in cooperation with the government, could help them find the right ways and correct solutions, where the need is most important, and how the money is best spent, and how best to set it up. But how can we be sure that these measures will be more affordable if, for example, we look at them. to mental illness? There are now mental health issues within the Ministry of Health. How should we believe that with this increase in counsel, mental health issues such as the funds they need and how can you deal with the crisis of mental health problems in Iceland? How do you use some of this money to apply, e.g. When we face a suicide epidemic, 47 individuals took their own lives in 2020 and most of them were young adults. What is the will of the government to cope with this? That would be, for example. can make the payment of a mental - health service available during a pandemic. What is the priority of the government? I'm very curious to hear that. I would really like to know what our priorities are when we face a state of mental - health emergency that makes our young people feel worse at school and in school, a lot of kids who don't show up at school. That's why I ask myself, " Is this my priorities? Is the priority of not subsidizing a psychological service? Is the priority of not shortening a waiting list? Is this priority? It's just something we need to think about and try to understand because I don't understand. How could it be possible to apply, e.g. to put all this energy and energy into an effort to reduce the number of deaths caused by suicide? Or just something else about mental health, such as. building a new mental hospital? All those who have come to the hospital or mental wards of the Land Hospital know that this is going down, and you can't offer it to people, people with mental illness, to be in hospitals. And besides, the number of hospitalisations should be reduced because there is no staff, there are no mental - health professionals, there are no psychiatrists. If we talk more about mental health in this context, then it's just that there are many mental - health teams in total paralysis, apart from the natural fact that we don't shorten a child's waiting list for a sample, since it's not subsidized psychological service and all. So you ask yourself, " What are my priorities? You may need to think it over again. As an employee in a government agency, I can claim that there is very limited resources for children. Children are given psychology sessions for birthday gifts, perhaps two from their parents or something like that, because it costs 20,000 on average to go to a psychologist. However, since the subsidence of a psychological service has not yet been accomplished, there is nothing we can do about it. Mental health appears to be some kind of luxury, having good mental health, but physical health, and all that has to do with the Covid epidemic are human rights. Mental health should also be a measure of human rights. I fear that the changes planned in this council resolution will lead to an even greater reduction, a further decrease in money from playing, an even greater emergency in mental health. I based it on the fact that there are more services, more funding that will go on caring for other issues that, of course, matter. But 47 young people do not fall for themselves unless something is wrong. There is something wrong with our service to people, or it is a ministry that we do not render to people. Something's wrong when children take their own lives. Then we're on the wrong track. Sometimes we may need to go backwards and say, " Where are we, and where are we going? ' It has experts in all kinds of fields, of course, those who are interested in agreeing with. But this is just something that differs from one another's viewpoint. But when you know there's an emergency in this category, it's very difficult to see that you're making a new ministry, and that's probably a lot of money. And when you know about all the families and all the children and everything that has to do with mental health, which has to do with children - school management is a huge problem that is trying to deal with, but we just don't have enough resources. We do not have enough money to pick up children who do not attend school because of anxiety, because of computer addiction, because of school - prevention problems. But not getting experts and not having goals that are measurable - of course, you can't measure everything, and I realize that. But full measurement is possible. It is possible to have goals that can be measured and if there are goals behind which can be reasoned, where you can say: This is better because of this - it is more likely that people, disabled persons, will be given earlier planning if the matter is under the Department of Internal Affairs? How will this be done? Is it possible to argue that this is so? Can that be measured? Will the average time for each person be measured? It's something that's probably just gonna have to come out. But I would like to encourage the government to measure and look at this because it's not just in order to argue that it's better to have more ministry, that's also in the interest that we believe and trust in what's being done because we're seeing that there's evidence that shows us, and we believe it. But this requires taking into account what it is now and how it should become. You can't do that, like a bang. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said earlier, bringing these things to you, that is a loss of faith and trust. It needs to come earlier. We need to put it up: this is what it is now. This is what we're going to do. We're going to recommend it this way because we know it's the scientific approach and it works. There's a reason why we believe in science, and there's a reason why we believe in the trident. There's a reason, because we know that science and scientific methods and critical methods to do these things work. It's true. So they need to be viewed not only to support a change in the problems of counsel but also to help us believe in these changes but also to see that this is done to improve the interests of the people of the land. But as I say, my concern is that my health is getting more and more attention and that we are going to face even greater and growing problems that are going to become so great that it is unthinkable. There is an emergency in mental health right now, so I don't quite know what this will be like if it gets worse. But I just hope and believe that there may be some solutions in sight and there is someone willing not to reduce the number of hospital admissions, not to have an opening at a mental hospital for a shorter period of time, but at the mall. It's just humiliating, and it puts people in a different category than other health problems. But this is our greatest concern, that we are losing sight of our goals and how we are going to achieve those goals, and how to set priorities for important things, is urgent, such as disease prevention, urgent, and important. The suicide crisis we face is important and urgent, but it is silent. It's a quiet epidemic that can't hear, but it's there and it's bigger if we ignore it. How important it is, then, that we believe that governments will set priorities and will not lose sight of what is important in spite of more departments, more costs in connection with them, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u140	A respectable president. Just at the end of the discussion, I would like to arrange some points, both from today's events and also only to soften the position I feel it is urgent to maintain now that the matter has been clarified by the political treatment of this council arrangement. I'd especially like to be on the air, coming to the side of the political bitch I come, that it's been a policy case and the slogan of the largest government long enough for the booth to go away, bawled away. We're supposed to cut the booth, we're supposed to clean up the government business, we're supposed to do better with the money, we're supposed to increase efficiency. Everything that's being done on this case is against it, even if it was only in the process of expanding the Council. The number of recruitments in itself is being increased, not necessarily. There is a growing number of employees working in these new budgets, and we do not have a complete explanation or some evidence to support that this will somehow result in an improvement in the management board's work. This is a bit of what I would like to criticize. This increase in recruitment is, of course, the responsibility of the government. She's totally free to do it like this, I'm not questioning her at all. However, we must be careful that this is contrary to what is happening in the work of the II Parliamentary Committee on how large the Council really needs to be. It was interesting to hear from one guest that happened to the committee that in itself the Ministry would have nothing more than eight or nine people in Iceland, in the small we have. But it's up to the government. She wants to go this way. I agree that she has the authority to do so, but I'm going to make a note that this is always presented as being particularly professional, and it's almost necessary that the Board of Management changes in this way to meet challenges for the epidemic and climate and the like. There is no need to set up the Council of Management in the way in which this proposal is made to work well in this situation. There's a lot to understand. I'd like to stay in bed, too, and why. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdóttir Gunnarsdóttir did it well here - because it only shows so well that it's a political decision, not professional when you review old speeches with those who are now in power position, including in the General Assembly, or in a government position, but now in command, when role exchange has often taken place in a long political process in man - that one was said yesterday and everything else today. There's nothing wrong with that in itself, but it means that this case is all nonsense political, it's not professional. I'm gonna let myself go, like what? paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdótttir Gunnarsdóttir did earlier, quoting a talk as the highest. The president of the Generals, Birgir of the Ármannsson, held here ten years ago or so, that was, during the reign of 2011•2012, then in a position of government, and criticized them for the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to set up appointments in a certain way. The Environment and Resource Ministry was then being discussed in this context. This criticism, to which I am referring, was not merely a matter of the Council of Government as well as the way the work was done but also of the material aspects of the advisers themselves. That's where they said "wow." paritaprevir He's a year's Ármannsson farm, now the highest. The President of Generalis, by permission of the President: In addition to this, it may be unwise to deliver resources and their protection under the same Ministry. Having policies and decisions in these areas for one Ministry, but not for two or more, the balance between views of innovation and protection may be disturbed. In general, the current policy must outweigh the protection of the Environment Ministry. A conflict between different viewpoints in these areas may be healthy and necessary. By bringing important projects on resource use for the Environment Ministry, there is a clear chance that the protection issues will outweigh the requirements of the budget. That was 10 years ago. Today, this balance between innovation and protection is called for instead of allowing these lawsuits to go together as contrasts. So they've completely changed their angles and it's just fine, it's just a political attitude, nothing wrong with it, but don't put it in a costume that there's some huge, professional need to do it in this way. It's just not like that. Then I wanted to mention just a few words from the report because it is, as I mentioned earlier in my talk, full of beautiful promises, but there is little need for reasoning support and explanations on how to reach the goals mentioned. I just want to quote the report that says: The establishment of the new Ministry of the University, Industrial, and Neons is a sign of the progressive policy of the government of these sectors. The aim of the new Ministry must be to see how things can be done better than before, how new things can be introduced, thus enabling both individuals and businesses to improve their own interests and prospects. A new Ministry is designed to support innovation's environment, where people enjoy creation, thrive, and grow in open, free society of innovations and competitions. This is not evidence that having things in this way is good. These are just dictionaries, beautiful words written on paper to throw into a report and be entitled reasoning support, but they are not. It's just a word that doesn't really have any particular contents. This is what I want to criticize. Then I'd also like to say that it is nearly presumptuous, I'd like to mean, to record so much Adolment's study report, and that they're all working in the report. It is then being said that during the past decade, there has been a progressive development of a system of government reforms with the results and tips of the Allegorical Committee to guide the development of the management system through increased cooperation and cooperation with the Ministry, which ensures that knowledge and human knowledge are fully used. This is, in effect, a bit unpredictable in view of our position that it was said that it would be better to reduce the number of recruitments, to have larger, to promote the expertise within them. It is as has been mentioned in the discussion and given to the committee, a huge and big point, to me, that makes them ready again to be filled with professional knowledge that can be some resistance to the special interests that want, certainly in many respects, affect matters. Of course, it is advisable to care for the public interests and to protect the interests of the public, even if it is a narrowly defined employment company or something like that. So I don't like the fact that this report is being discussed and that it's been done in a special way with what was stated at the World Committee of Research at its time. From that work, there were many other suggestions, and these were suggestions that one of today's agencies gave a complete heart. The two existing groups of government were then in return, if I recall correctly, spoke well and thoroughly against it, so it's all together biting a little in their tail. But people may be quite free to change their mind, and I'll come back to this point: Let's just talk men's business. It's a political decision. Let's just talk about this as a political decision. Stand them and fall with this political decision instead of putting this into a beautiful costume. In addition to this, I would like to agree with what has been presented in the discussion today, and I also pointed to a previous discussion of the matter before it was sent to the committee, and this is by removing the invisible walls of civilization and promoting cooperation, consultation, and coordination within the board. For one thing, it has never been fully explained who these invisible walled civilizations are. They're just saying they're there. There has been no attempt to explain exactly what it is. There have been comments from the committee that have pointed to certain cases, but these explanations have never come from government members themselves, that I know best, which once again tells you that these are just words in the report, and there is nothing special behind that word. Also, this is by contributing to cooperation, cooperation and coordination within the board of directors, the lack of information and explanations as well. But I'm not going to question the fact that the government is really serious about doing all this and that there is a very good mind behind it. But the work on this, the explanations we've received and the reasoning support, is not a particularly good way into this terms of election. It's kind of gotta be said right now. Then, at the end, I would like to give some comments and expect to be reasonable in that, of course, the reviews received by the committee were all sorts of things, some supported the changes heard by the speakers, others made kindly comments or tips, while others were very opposed to what is being suggested. Of course, it is my job to refer specifically to something that is just working on to support it. And this is what to make up BHM stated in a review, that changes such as these increase the risk of looseness and are important to prevent it from forming even the tradition that each government change and/or secretary's exchange will be replaced by changes in recruitment and/or institutions, the Ministry of Unity, submitted, or moved to the relevant expense, raster and discomfort. This statement is most strikingly referring to the minority opinion of the highest degree. The president of the Generalis wrote ten years ago and was very generous. It also states in the review of BHM: ▪ The Council has to appoint academics with enormous knowledge and experience in the work and affairs of the Council, policy and policy. BHM makes comments that it seems that the knowledge of the Board of Management Board was not new to prepare the changes in the order of advice currently being established. This is a very serious point for me. I'm trying to reflect on the innuendo, though I'm not doing anything bad to men, it's three at a meeting to reflect on the entire Board of Governments, with all the experts, access to all the experts who are in all the plots, at least to call the knowledge, to get it to the table, to activate this knowledge in some way. But all of this was done afterward, as is clearly shown in the report I am witnessing here. Then there is another account from FB, which was cited earlier. It says: I would like to express the opinion that the existing bill and paper appear to reflect the vision that higher education and culture are primarily economic growth devices. A connection between culture and trade and university education with industry and innovation is likely to be made up of the important roles of these basic wisdom, creation, and joy of life in the country. I'm not going to argue that it's something bad when people are molding the school affairs of the country that it's done by direct contact with a job, if you look at some economic factor in it. All you need to do is agree with all other aspects of general well - being, the ideologies of the gathering of knowledge. That all must be the purpose of the other, so I mention it. Then there were the museums that made comments in moving to the Ministry of Business and Culture. There they formed the National Museum with a review. It suggests that the National Museum of Iceland, a university institution, will be equipped for the custody of the university and the scientific Ministry because of its compatibility with university and university institutions. In fact, there were other comments that I would have liked to quote, but I can see that my time is running out. Yet, there is a schoolmaster of Flensburg schools in consultation with other high school champions who noted that the status of high school needed to be clear and clear under which minister of the school was to be heard. It was a bit shocking in all this work to feel that there was so much doubt as to where the advisers'authority limits were in terms of institutions and even where assignments were placed in the ministry. I'm right about what I said in my first speech. There's a lot wrong with this. But this is a political decision, talk of it as a political decision, and the greater part, the government is responsible for the political policies behind this document. It's not the smaller part to do it, so we don't vote for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u141	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I noticed in his speech that he was smiting in a paper with the Senate decree saying, with the permission of a president: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. I don't think I've ever read a collection of phrases in my life as I read the report. They are new challenges, the challenges of new times, administrative reforms, the opportunities to cope with challenging community projects, the conditions for new thought, creative solutions, and the development of a discussion that calls for a balance between innovation and protection and then institutions. Now I've worked within a company where the divisions were taken down and that was done with a so-called Šfre seaing, free choice, all put into the hall and it would lead to people working together, talking together and sharing in informal opinions. I don't see exactly anything in this council-sense proposal, and I don't talk about in the Presidential decision that leads to removing the invisible settlements or that new times are being dealt with, and the Board of Directors is in the best position to cope with challenging community projects. See what? Senator something in this suit, a proposal to smell the spell. 169, where you are dealing with this new era, other than changing names? In fact, they're changing their names from the Department of Science, Industrial, and Development at the university, industrial, and innovation. There is a shift from that in the fall, a new era from November onward. Is there anything you can see here that shows that we are entering a new era, and the invisible walls of civilization are vanishing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And does he know what this means, the walls of founded civilization?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u142	A respectable president. I thank you very much for the answer and for the opportunity to talk a little more about this sentence. This, of course, is a sentence that has been discussed with this matter and may not be surprising. As I mentioned earlier, and I'm on top of it, the only thing that's ever happened is when the prime minister gave the case and the reviews and the visitors and now, about the invisible walls of civilization, when visitors mention to the committee that it exists or that it is referred to in reviews. There hasn't been anything from the greater part, and then I'm just talking about a specific example, about where the walls are, what nature they are, and how best to tear them down. However, there is much talk about cooperation, coordination, and coordination within the board, but there may be no particular explanation. This report is, as a matter of fact, unkempt. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson mentioned, natural as just one big year's address in many ways. It's kind of gotta be said. I'm not trying to be mean by mention of it. The most favorite schedule is this: A new government agency comes to support the environment of innovation, where people enjoy their creative powers, thrive, and grow in open, free society of innovations and competitions. It's like a text in one of the bank advertisements for collapse rather than logical support for a report, and that, of course, applies to this phrase as a question. A senator pointed out here earlier. But there it is. This is what we have to work with. The government chooses to go this way. If she pleases her, her responsibility will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, and I cannot help but agree with what he said. There's a lot more to this, but to me it's very simple. There is an increasing number of recruitments in the Iceland government by one, so that the advance squad can get additional ministers in accordance with its Congress grants, he won a major victory, and all of that. But doing all this about it, all this saying, and all that, I don't think it's necessary. It's just getting complicated. It would be much easier to increase just one thing and not talk about new times and new challenges, etc. I take an example here: Using an integrated conference approach, it also aims to create conditions for new thought and creative solutions. It has been said that names are changed: ◯ To form, the Education and Culture Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs will be in line with increasing child emphasis. But this is also the sports Department, you could say so. Why not the sports Department? You can list all your offices. I believe the changes in names are confusing with the people, the public. Names need to be fixed. We have the Justice Department, we know what it is. Now it's the university, the Neo-creation and Industrial Ministry. I believe these changes of names are a failure to create confusion in the public. I can give you an example of the Food Ministry. It has land healing, forestry, and forestry. No one in the community knows that it's under there but maybe we at the High Council. I'd like to ask you what. Councilmen see his opinion of these changes of names, whether they are not in part at least, if not altogether, in order to cause confusion in the public and in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and shall try to answer. Of course, the reason for all these words and those beautiful phrases that are found in the report and for the humble support behind them is the case, as is the case. A senator rightly pointed out that there is a need to change the distinction between members of the government. There could have been another way. It would have been possible to reduce the numbers of the Independence Party by one and reduce the number of VG's advisers by one. Do you think it was ever discussed at the government table meeting the election outcome in this way? No. It's also sensitive to the largest member of the board, as I said earlier, to be growing out of need. If the stall is growing and the council is increasing, it needs to be changed to something, and it is primarily the two things that explain all the verbism and all of this beautiful package. It is also said to be, for example. that the Ministry is being shaped in and because we are in the middle of a pandemic and because climate needs to be dealt with specifically. The climate has been talking about for more years now. This is a huge project on the custody of all international institutions, all governments in most parts of the world, at least The governments that want to be taken seriously. You don't have to go to this Icelandic government program to work on this. We all know that this is the big case in the next term. Of course, the same is true of other departments in this case. I'm not worried that this would cause any longer confusion, but this ring in itself is not particularly desirable unless the evidence behind it is kind and much better. But as I've been tracking down here and more members of the conferences, that's a good question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-25-26.u145	A respectable president. I gave a talk earlier, my first speech, which I showed to show that this proposal should be dismissed to the resolution of the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Management Board. I'll make a suggestion for deduction, and I understand that it's coming out of print right now, with a report. The reason for the deduction is the same as I related in my first speech, first of all, in terms of the form, that the text of the proposal is not in harmony with 2 gre. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Today's proposal, as it is available today, in the Senate document for our discussion, namely. 169, it simply states that there is a change in the number and intensity of specific advisers, and includes that, instead of the Ministry of Employment, Social Affairs, Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport and the Environment, I use the shorter editions of the Councilment, these five advisory matters, would be listed as seven Ministryes, and the Department of Social Affairs, University, Industrial and Development, Department of Publicity, Food Ministry, Culture and Business, Education and Children's Ministry, and Environment, Energy and Climate Ministry. They're changing five consonants into seven and a name for five skirmishes into seven. Code two. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland says that a number of councils and their names should be decided by means of a court order, such as Article 15. The constitution, as suggested by the prime minister. The proposal shall be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym which is already under discussion and preparatory. The law clearly states that a number of counselors should be chosen. That's the total scheme, it's not just the change that's going to happen or that it should change from five to seven. The interpretation proposal must be able to stand on its own. The Parliament must be informed of a number of advisers. That's not in this council arrangement. The text does not bear its mark and more, in 2 gr. says that the name of these advisers should also be set in the president's surgery, the name of all 12 advisers. It's not done in this suggestion. In the form of this proposal, this proposal for Congress does not match Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It is to be dismissed. The point is, the suggestion is to be the actual president's decision to sign. That is what the word "commandment " means. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. I know that this law did not come about with a change in the course of time, and the argument is behind me, but it does not change that it is not right which the attorney of the Ministry sent me in e-mails today, that the Congress agreement should only be about the change. That's not true. It is necessary to inform the council and the Senate that there is a material opportunity to discuss the proposed changes in the number of counselors and the number of counselors, as well as their names. That's what's supposed to inform the council, not just the change. And another: We are now dealing with a synonym, which is just part of the change. The most significant changes and the most important changes were made on November 28, in the Presidential decision to switch government issues between councils in Iceland's Management Board. There is the material change that takes place. The report, its coverage, can be read almost as much as a paper with that presidency, which is another story. In the other canal - there were two president's canals, November 28th, on the one hand, No. 125, which I have already referred to, and No. 126 on the switches of ministers - growth is in progress. We've got 12 ministers there. They've changed, the numbers have been increasing, and that's what it's all about. All of this is about making Ministers, adding councilmen to Iceland's government for the forward party. That was done in November. All this verbism in the paper is about the one thing. This isn't about a new era or an information revolution, or that you're supposed to destabilize a settlement or whatever it's called, and there's so many phrases here, you can just pull it down here: ... intended to ensure that the Council is in the best position to handle the challenges of community activities ahead of us... Then, with a vow of new challenges and administration to or from the state of the administration. It's not about that. Everybody knows that. It's about the winning of the forwarding party in the election and about bringing in an extra ministry. That's what it's all about, extra ministry for extra ministers. It seems to be -- let's say this is going to be agreed, it's going to be approved very likely, and then the prime minister takes the document, makes a court order, takes it to the President of Iceland. It will not pass the second Precinct in document No. 125 from November 28th. The names of the advisers differ from those of the plot. I'll take an example of a discrepancy: In the Precinct on the switch of Ministers, in 12. gr., is said to be the Supreme Minister of Science, Industrial and Neoplasms. Secretary of Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. This is shown in the November decision. It is then called the university, industrial and innovation of this Congress resolution. As soon as Prime Minister takes the President's decision, according to this synonym, according to Article 2. the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, then he has to change the November decision as well. Otherwise, there's a discrepancy between the name and the minister and the Ministry. And what's the Ministry? The Department is just a minister's office. Everything done in the Ministry is on behalf of the Minister, B.F.r. This mall is breaking it up like this - I'm afraid to say so, I'm not saying this doesn't pass the constitution, but it's going completely off at 15 g's. It's only supposed to be done in one canal. It's as simple as that. Of course, the Minister of Science, Industrial and Neoplasms is the Minister of Science, Industrial, and Development, named by the Ministry for Ministers. But it won't be when it's all approved. It will then be the science, industrial, and innovation minister of the university, industrial and innovation department. This is what will happen unless the November decision is also changed, and that includes more departments, we can accept the water supply and agricultural services. V.E.G. A sea emissary was in here in inquirys today, unsubstantiated inquiries. He's going to be a marine dignitary and agricultural minister at the Food Ministry. That's the way it is. The office has a name other than the Minister. It's just that. The office is called naturally after the Minister. That's how it works in the real world. That's the way it's supposed to be. I can also take another example, travel, secretary of business and culture, according to the November decision. He's going to be the head of travel, trade, cultural, and cultural ministers at the Ministry of Culture and Business. What do you say? I want to state--this is so strange, and it says in the report, I'm not reading it up, just referring to it, which I wrote this evening--that I am very opposed to the order of counseling by the head of a government at any given time, and it is probably increasing counsellors about one if it is the will of the government and that they are involved in works. Then it must be done right, doing so according to Article 2. the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and stop this verbal and deception, doing so in a way that is a substantiated work. I don't think it's a paradox. I'm not against raising one minister, and I'm sure the government of Iceland today, the new government, has done the right thing. But how this is not done right, the case is not correct. The time has come for Icelanders, and this institution, to look at the format, to consider the case. It is important, and the preparation for this decision, if you look at the Presidential decision from November, is not consistent with what you will see today.
