ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u2	On Thursday, June 9, we received a letter from Katrín Friðriksson, 8th. Smoke. So, that she'll be gone soon. So on June 11, U.S.A., Daði, Már, Kristófersson. A letter has also been received from Logi Einarsson, 1st. That's the north side. "That he will be absent in the near future, and a letter has been received by the chairman of the Independence Party "that Þórdís Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, 2th. Witchest. "I can't attend next week. Today, then, at the Council of the United States of America, Hilda Jana Gísladóttir, and 2nd President of the Northwestern Party, Sigríður Elín Sigurðardóttir, while 1st Keeper of the Arts has already taken seats. During the previous session of the Council, David the son of Kristófersson and Hilda Jana Gísladóttir are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u3	It has been investigated and accepted, but it has not taken place in the Council before, thus Sigríður Elín Sigurðardóttir to the Constitution. I want to pray. A senator writing under the scallop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u4	The Sigríður Elín Sigurðardóttir has signed a royal pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and Business, Minister of Justice and Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u6	Mr. President. I want to direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister. A greater proportion of the EEA's Environment and Transport Committee, which we have spent much of the time here in the Parliament, have now been submitted since 2016 with significant changes that were a bit surprising. The name of the committees is distributed here beyond the wall, which was distributed electronically on Saturday, June 11 p.m. 6:15. On Thursday evening, representatives of the board signed a council meeting with four of the five members of the government, who nail down in what way the discussion will be conducted in the cases that are here to be paid on the end of the council and put, to be said in a mild way, to be severely restricted in what way the senators can express themselves. This is for those who do not know the number of minutes mentioned in each Senate case. This agreement was signed on Thursday night. Two days later, this article on the box with significant changes to the previous, is published so much that not all council members rely on it to support it. But what I want to ask the highest. The prime minister is out to see if the minister is considered to be preconceivable to set up a accord with governmental oppositional groups that so severely restrict their speech to a complex language like this, and then present as much dramatic and comprehensive changes as being recommended in a committee's list of more parts of the adjustment program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As I know this story, it was the seven tributaries who signed the agreement, but not the sharp one. A senator here to ask. I understand the Central Party is not a party at this agreement. Do I believe that it would be fatal to sign such a agreement? Absolutely. But, of course, I expect it to be discussed at a meeting of the council groups if there are any comments on this opinion or anything else that may arise in the Senate. I don't know the discussion at any point. The environment and transport committee, but it is expected that there has been quite a lot of discussion there, with a final committee opinion not before Saturday. So I don't see no basis for making such a council meeting, but I expect that if there were any comments, it would have been discussed at a meeting that I wasn't at this time. 11th
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister's policy is to retrace the remainder of the terms of the end of the council. V.E.G. Of course, a minister must direct it in his own way. I'm very surprised to find out. A minister who is now the foreman of this government believes that the fundamental changes made on the framework, with the opinion of a greater proportion of members of the committee, are something that members of the Parliament should have been able to discuss before this committee was mentioned. I don't know what time machine the prime minister has, but there was no way for members of the seven classes to make this agreement - just as the Middle Party does not agree. I just want to reiterate the part of my questions that concerns the Minister to see as how all the seven senators signed, in spite of these changes, should be restricted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u9	Mr. President. I think it's coming out of the roughest direction, and even it's kind of cute when a member of the Central Party says that the one standing here is the one who's going to upset Congress. If we're looking at the end of the last few years, I think it's more of the Central Party that's been in the process of making them upset. The committees are now being resolved, and there is no question that they were all out of the committee when the agreement was signed. This is often the case, and in the case of the final committees, changes occur frequently and reasonably and normally. I think it's perfectly normal. On the other hand, if there is any such comment on the agreement that the Central Party is not a party and does not surprise anyone in relation to the history I originally traced, then, of course, members of Congress discuss it between themselves and the president of the Senate if there is any reason to add to a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm glad there's a shelf under the payment of the 3rd Amendment Framework Program hoping later, but it doesn't matter how it's done. At one time, the left movement ◯ greens out for protection of the flagship of nature in this country, taking the part more seriously. There were some reports in the past week when VG decided to put his name on the adjustment of more than a part of the environment and transport committee to the payment of the third stage of the committee, in fact, that another two representatives of the VG on the Committee, Bjarni Jónsson, a member of the Northwestern district, did not support that proposal. During the discussion of the box at the General Assembly in 2017, the problem arose. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter by permission of the president: ▪ Of course, there are many good things in the program that is now being submitted unchanged from the previous council, especially with regard to the Guardian Party, and may not be surprised that I especially enjoy it. I watch them film them for Shiver Creek, Skaft River, and other factors, as well as for the Norwegian Age, which has been a significant consideration in this hall in recent years. And then, of course, the earth's lakes of Skavegur. You should also remember to the highest. In 2008, Prime Minister was in the VG Parliament's decision to describe the peace of the east and the west of the glacier in Skavevegur. President. After watching a political bitch left for over two decades, I find it difficult to understand these changes. So I must ask Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Chairman of the VG and the highest. Prime Minister, what has changed? With what evidence is the left green operation of KIG and the activation options of the Shire's Preservation Lakes of a waiting party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u11	Mr. President. A fourth session was now submitted by the fourth Environment Minister. It was first submitted, this stage of a frame plan, in 2016. No coverage has ever been completed, including Because of the criticism of the one standing here. Hv. A senator forgot to mention that in the same talk, or in many others given on that same occasion, I indicated that in a novelty class, they have advantages like those held in the middle of the highlands that would obviously have to look beyond the ideas of a possible central land country park and from the landscape barrier that is located there and unsatisfactory. There I also discussed these talks, since I remember them quite well, about the activations in the lower part of the blue, and the fact that the social impact of the activations had not been adequately evaluated. And what is the suggestion of a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees in these areas? Yes, it is, because it needs to be evaluated, that is exactly what to make for a waiting party. Of course, retailing is also being made on the basis of the fail-safe value. But don't we simply have to face up to it, General, that we haven't come together on this stage of the program for the three times it's been put forward? Must we not take to heart the fact that these are likely too many advantages in taking their stand at a time if this story is marked, which I take seriously? These six years we've been discussing this matter, and this need not be as surprising as any of us. In view of the fact that a government contract specifically speaks of the need for a waiting party to be enlarged, this is being done in memory. Hv. A member of the United States named Skaftá and Shiver Creek, a patron class. And because of what? A senator asks about the left movement ◯ green supply I think it's good to remember that different areas are not under the schedule, e.g. not the ten areas of peace that were declared at the time of the left green in the Environment Ministry, which, of course, are also a major milestone in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u12	V.E.G. President. I don't share with the highest. Prime Minister on the points she mentioned in her speech, The Scorpio, the lower Major, etc., which are all turned upside down when it comes to the precautionary plan and the entry of an opportunity from waiting protection - from waiting protection. So we're talking about benefits that have some of the highest protection values in terms of professional groups working for the project, and they're a protection factor for nature's prosperity. It is not consistent with the precautions taking the benefits of waiting for protection. It just doesn't make sense, you know. President. So there must be other reasons. There must then be other reasons why there is no natural protection. So I must ask the highest. Prime Minister again: Why is it that the left movement of the invitations to move the Shire's Lakes and the Caldural Institute from waiting protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u13	Mr. President. I think a frame plan is very important, and I've, to say, honestly, been very worried about tracking the developments that have been here for the past six years, that it has not been possible to complete a new frame process. I notice that after listening to my colleagues from all categories that discuss that here simply needs to look to my stage, and underneath it is included in the committee party of the greater part, and I'm pretty sure that this is the case. A senator agrees with me because, of course, we need to weigh what is wrong with it when we have four times and failed to finish it. I'd like to remind you, when we're discussing the last word here by the General, that it was totally aware of a decision when the Law on the Framework Plan was adopted in its own time that the World Council was to have the last word, that a structured program would not be set aside from a project and would be taken care of. It was very much discussed, like a cot. A senator knows whether it should be the rule, and it was made absolutely conscious of the decision not to do so. So I'm totally on it. For this, there's a certain argument in the opinion of the greater part, and I think we would be in real trouble, Mr. President, if we were to reexamine this stage of the program and pass it on in some form. [[The president calls.]] I think that would be our first problem, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u14	A respectable president. Psychiatric disorders have been a short period of shyness and a kind of leftover size in the Icelandic health system. This fact is reflected in a recent sentence on the State Review Report that led to a comprehensive discussion here at the council on these issues and is still unsupervised. In recent years, some courageous individuals have taken their steps forward discussing their diseases openly, including anxiety and depression. Thus, these good people have played a role in destroying prejudices related to this class. Some have wondered if depression might even be viewed as a form of the national disease of the Icelanders. Thus, depression could be a major factor in the nation's blood and possibly a major cause of the many tragic suicides taking place each year. Mental - health interactions with drugs are complex. A common antidepressant is Lithium, one of the elements, which has been identified as a key element in our cell phones and electric cars. As in the case of the battery, the function of lithium appears to gradually fade as it is used longer. In fact, Lithium's way in this context may provide some indication of man's electronic qualities. Similarly, there is evidence that certain types of diet, ingestion, and physical activity are useful to many depressed people, all of which require further scientific research. As to the social impact of this serious disease, it does not need to be varied, but in view of the seriousness of this problem, I would like to ask the highest degree. Whether it is time for a health minister to start a special research project. This refers to an order received from a national, international, and foreign specialist to try to find out the real cause and roots of this nation's disease once and for all. It is indeed an urgent and long - term work to do in behalf of improved human health, and Iceland may very well take the initiative in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I challenge the best of us. He or she will respond with an open mind to this challenge and expect his positive response.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u15	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jakob Fritman Magnússon for his inquiry. These are questions about the big picture in this, how precious it is. It may be said that we have been late to take these matters seriously, which are such an important part of human health, i.e. Your mental health factor. I can answer the question that came at the end, about identifying the causes, positive. We need to determine the causes of the problem in every way, but especially there. It is also true, as it were. A senator shows that many individuals have discussed this problem openly. It wasn't like that. It's a very positive development, and I think there's an indication that we're listening, that we're beginning to admit this part of the public health, mental health, all the age, from the youngest. That is why I found a report by a state accountant who received an excellent talk here at the council. It brings out what we can improve, including This show. It shows that we have not been very busy writing and collecting data and information, we lack it. So I just want to give this a positive answer and respond. I know it's the highest. Secretary of education and child care, I agree that we need to identify the cause of the problem. Then I'll try to get to other aspects of the second round better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's response. Although I have referred to a state - of - health report and have spoken in general about mental health problems, I am actually suggesting a special research project, not on mental disorders in general, but on the things that I consider most seriously and lead to suicide and extreme feelings of depression and anxiety - related issues. I'm suggesting that the health minister cooperate with others who might be concerned and that a group will be established here to work specifically to summarise all the sources from all over the world. I believe this is serious, especially in this country, that we are to take the initiative in this and that we should seek international cooperation and possibly strengthen. This is not a task that will be done quickly or rapidly. This requires a lot of overwork and years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for taking this matter into consideration and these questions and the basis for the project. A senator comes in here in a second request. I think this is all there is to go on. This has to do with the fact that my career predecessor set in motion a similar suicide - related group. So we need to grab the cable there and start this mission. V.E.G. Secretary of education and child care has already set in motion a similar group for our children. I'll take what. A senator only at the word, because he also introduced an international awareness in this series. This is true, and we are to take the lead in this discussion and in the field ministry. I'll just wind up on this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u18	President. Now, we're completing Congress, and the natural policy of government is to try to negotiate the end of Congress and the outworking of the issues that the government's majority cohesion is all about to rule out. There are a number of cases that I would like to discuss in this inquiry to the highest degree. Minister. A few years ago, a convention resolution on the construction of a digital carpenter was adopted, which, by permission of presidents, said: The General concluded to hide travel, employment, and innovation ministers in cooperation with the head of education and culture. Ministers at that time - to work a build-up and manage digital carpenters [...] The Plan will be clear about the progress of project, workout and funding that may be in cooperation with parties in the community. Here's a report from the highest level. Prime Minister of the completion of this project in these words: In March 2021, contracts [for three years] were signed with eight digital carpenters all around the country. With the contracts, the Ministry of ANR and MRN met the expectations of the General No. 19/148, and it should be noted that the operating ground of the digital carpenters should be strengthened, their management established, in their place, - to the age of 3 - to the age of three - guaranteed bioavailability of students in addition to their targeted involvement in employment and innovation. This was certainly not what the Senate concluded, signing a three - year contract with the builders who were already in progress. Then I wondered about how the council agrees, and in this case all the senators who were in the hall who had even added to the Senate resolution, the original interpretation was about the availability of high school students, but the Senate, the committee added to the basic schools and the people of the country: Who decides that the doctrine of Congress is met?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for asking about digital carpenters because the digital architecture that has been established throughout the country has proved to be very good. They are the first indicator into the technological revolution we are in. We are in this technological revolution, but it also gives us insight into the future, how we are using our artificial intelligence, and how we put this into our study. So I count these digital carpenters, and the emphasis as long as possible. A senator has put them to work, being an exemplary man. You're right next door. A senator that when I was a minister of education and culture, we finished this deal, whether it was at eight schools, in high school, which I thought was very positive. I remember we put more money on this than we had done before. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong. You have to say I just need to take a closer look, including. what's going on with the Ministry of Presidency, and compare it with the Senate arrangement. I agree with that. A senator's need is to look out for this. Of course, when the entire council has agreed to an arrangement, it is very important that we secure its progress, and it should be, in my opinion, a tool of the council, especially when everyone agrees to take the next steps. I'll come in a little bit better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u20	President. This may be a more political question, but just in general, when it comes to a new government, it's just advising government and, in fact, even politics. For example, the change in the psychiatric funding laws, the subsidence of psychological services, it was approved here at Congress, there's law and rights about it, but it's just decided not to finance it. Consequences of applying for membership in the European Union, that interpretation was only taken up with some letter shipment of foreign ministers at the time, rather than by the council in one way or another, because it is a pact proposal, not a European decision-making proposal. Then maybe only on political terms; who decides? How can a decision be made when the council will have met its decision? I don't talk about when there is just an orderly right to finance a certain type of service that is not being done. How does that even work?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u21	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's request is very helpful, and we own - and I'll take it to myself - perhaps more carefully to consider their progress and follow up. I'm saying for my part, because we're talking about politics and how we're suing it into the council, that I stressed it in my first term period to be for making a pact proposal to promote Icelandic as official and so on academic policy. This was most important to me to get a sense of what was going on here at the council. The nominee is so important because these suggestions and, of course, legal products are being fined, and the outcome will be much better after that therapy. I agree with that. A senator that we need to be more careful, and I'll take a look at this. As a matter of fact, I don't have my digital carpenters anymore, but I would like to contribute to making it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u22	A respectable president. Today, we will discuss financial plans for the next five years. It has changed substantially and is the reason that last week the government of Iceland introduced measures designed to reduce inflation. At the same time, this action is intended to reduce the angle of the State Fund. The contribution of these measures is estimated to be 0.7% of GDP and accounts for 26 billion. Among the measures taken, there is a change in the payment of cars, a decrease in alcohol and tobacco pay on the free crew, a permanent decrease in government travel costs, a decrease in donations for political organizations. At that time, the budget and extent of value due to marine farming will be revised and the price - level price of the airport will be paid. At that time, there should be 2% and 0.5% at high school and college, and there will be a reduction in budget range from 4.1 billion to 2.1 billion. The next year's investment plans will also be reviewed in the light of the construction site. A respectable president. I can't see that these measures will deliver the target and will most likely affect those with the lowest income in this community. At the same time, there is also an introduction to measures such as decomposition of cost-employment tax on clean energy cars and 35% reimbursement tax due to film production, which, of course, will increase expansion. It's as if your left hand doesn't know what happens to your right. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if she believes that the action being taken will result in the result of the planned result, i.e. to reduce tension and inflation. Or is it just action that will get more money?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, the big vision is that we can move faster from the center of a government fund. As a result, we are detracting, and we are working with the Secret Bank to introduce the money policy. This is exactly what we do this time, i.e. with increased revenue, with increased maintenance and later investments, which are actually determined by the position of each investment so that we are not adding to the spell. Does this harmonize with increased support for filmmaking? I just want to remind you that the government's policy, declared, is to give special support to the software industry, whether through research and development support or film support. We consider increasing the development of economic and economic support, the variety of support, the increase in the number of them. That alone is an important economic policy. I'd like to say, because it's been claimed that this will take on the least of the people, e.g. The public service, to be overlooked in terms of maintenance of health institutions, nursing institutions, social security, health insurance, unemployment, courts - on these factors, we are not adding anything to the discussion that has been made of the changes. I'd also like to say that some of the suggested items, when it comes to earning money, are actually something I would consider the time, e.g. The retail price rate, as well as the growing income of tourism, and the reimbursement of fish farms, an article that we're seeing growing tremendously fast, just so we take an example of two sectors that will put theirs into it. We also need to watch that traffic - and - fuel currency, perhaps much faster than anyone thought, is the clear operation of the government in the interests of clean energy cars. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is difficult to ensure that we can continue to earn money from these factors, while we continue to support the urgent energy exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I agree with her on the support of her software, but I don't quite understand the need for action that will increase tension at the same time as the action to reduce tension. I can't quite decide what's going on. A respectable president. I'm worried about the state of the homes in the country. The domestic situation is getting worse every day. The interest rate of loans continues to rise; the rate of loans increases by tens of thousands each month. People are starting to be reluctant to shop for food, fuel prices are highest, and I don't see any efforts to support these groups, despite the fact that a 3% rise in the movers was offered last week, leaving people on unemployment records. I'm just asking the highest. Prime Minister: How should we react to this situation? What will prime minister do to support his family in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u25	Mr. President. The actions that we have presented in financial programs will be further developed in a budget bill for 1923, which provides clear evidence that we are with the Secret Bank in the money policy. That is exactly what we have discussed in this hall for many years: How can we make the financial money and money policy work better together? There are countless examples of how it has not worked out over the years, but if we look, for example. during the pandemic, we will see how these factors worked together properly. It explains many of the good conditions in the economy and much better than was predicted. Now the situation has changed rapidly, especially since there is a war in Europe, and then again we need to revise what we are doing in such a way that the government supports money policy. I want less of it. According to a survey of the Habitat for 2021, the country's homes, regardless of what we look like, are inseparably disintegrated. But we need to keep our eyes on the ball. Especially do we need to look to those who are rented when it comes to housing expenses. And I want less of that, too. A member of the council is supposed to take our first action in response to inflation was to increase the payment of public security, increase in housing support, and child support because we want to make sure that the most efficient are affected by inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u26	Mr. President. A recent report by a state - of - health accountant has brought up a discussion of the number of subjects on a somewhat higher level, which is very important. The council made up a discussion on this subject the week went by. However, it is noteworthy that in this report, the mental health of older people seems to be in little space and little attention. This may be the case in one full paragraph of this, if I recall correctly, more than an 80 - page report. Today, 14 years have passed since, in the last year, a real contingency was proposed to develop a mental - aging ward in Iceland. That was just before a collapse in 2008. Then the collapse came, and nothing happened. However, there have been many health ministers since then, and many governments, but somehow we still seem to be waiting for this 20 - bed sensibilation clinic, which may include. This report describes the lack. Then there's my question to the highest. The minister of this matter: Does the wise minister take special advantage of us to let at last become the result of such a division, and in what way? And second, what obstacles are being made to the highest. A minister especially in the way of our letting this happen to us? Is it to make up the cost of such a department or funding that stands in the way, or is it more organizational, and I don't talk about factors involved in caring for such a department?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u27	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this good inquiry, Þór Gunnarsson's son Ólafur. I wonder when it happened. A senator reviewed these issues related to mental health whether to approach the answer from the big picture and move to the core on the aging department, which has truly been interested, or answer the questions directly. A senator pointed at me at the end of a question. I'm going to start by answering the questions. It is true that the report of the Kingdom Accounting is very good, and it will only draw out, but it may not get much space, such as it does for the rest of the year. A senator pointed out. However, at least at least it appears. On page 47, it says that the land hospital, which we always have to work with, is clear, is doing well and feels the same way that, based on population and age distribution, the change we're looking at when we're talking about challenges ahead, is needed in 20 companies, and it can be assumed that about 25% of the elderly will be suffering some mental symptoms. And then, of course, like a what? A senator knows that this is linked to other diseases, such as addictions, brain failures, which are increasing, etc. I'll come to a later answer to what has stood in the way and what the challenge is really when it comes to organization, design, cost, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u28	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. The minister is interested in this case. Nevertheless, as I mentioned, many health ministers have come to work since those ideas first appeared. It's probably more than 20 years since those ideas first came up. For some reason, the National Hospital has not stressed this or the Ministry of Health. At any rate, we'll have a side of the same thing. I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to think only outside the box and consider: Would it be of the highest value? Ministers to cooperate with some of the nurses to accept that department, in the same way as they already do - there are agreements with at least two or three nursing homes for such a business - for permanent saving? Tells you the highest. Is such a course possible for health ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and what he came here last time. Yes, I think it's absolutely inevitable, and the nursing home has been taking this additional assignment, and it's absolutely necessary to us. They've done all right. We need to make use of all resources and use out - of - hospital resources, mental - health care programs, mental - health services, and mental - health care services, as well as nursing homes, as they have been responding to the fact that somewhere we have to deal with this. It is also noted that health care policies for the elderly are being used, outside hospitals, for use. It's very important. Sadly, though, when it comes to caring for them, we have not given enough thought to these factors, to educate particularly gerontologists to handle this project, and there is something we must consider. And because we're talking about reports, Mckinsey's report also shows that we need to define a very good role and service, including this aspect of the ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u30	A direct contemporanity, a rule of five days, is therefore required to vote on whether or not to take the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u31	A respectable president. The aim of a fish management law is to promote the protection and practical use of fish, thus ensuring stable employment and inhabited by the country. According to my share. In the Committee, the bill goes contrary to the objectives of the laws for the protection of fish stocks, public interest, and settlements and is more likely to expand the present fishing system that has become increasingly critical of the public for years. In all reviews, change, or dilation, a code system is human work, and it does not muse in stone. At that, we must have the courage to ask if the system serves the nation's total interest. If not, politicians must have the courage and courage to make the needed changes in the system and I will vote against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u32	A respectable president. Here and here is a matter on a journey that remains in place of the eating of the sea. We in our memory have suggested that the case be brought back to the government because we believe it is more correct to initiate an overall review of the fishing system with the objective of ensuring a fair and just share in these same national resources before continuing to salutate new species. We are also concerned that there are many articles in nature protection removed from the government of fishing and will be elected against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u33	Yes, Mr. President, I think we're doing good things by bringing something wrong on this hunt, and it's worth reminding that in the case of thonging, it's primarily a deal with landowners. They're gonna have to have a deal like that. We emphasize that prior to the release of a novelty license for those who think they may have to be considered and discussed by the Institute of Natural Sciences. It is kept in and it is granted. Then I would also like to reiterate that going outside the grid law does not depend on the start of a fishing fee, which is likely ahead of an article that we need to consider even more. But I think it's a good job to do it this way to get a better hold of this processing of these products.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u34	Paybacks. Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to remind you that this is the first operation program in gay affairs. I'd like to mention it, too. due to the decisions made by the Council, e.g. with the sex-friendly, self-sustaining legislation that led to the development of trans and intersex kids, Iceland took up five seats on a rainbow map in the affairs of queer people in the 18th place of 2019, then went up a few seats and is now entering the ninth position of Congress. I really hope that this plan will be one more progressive step in this series of issues. It has been important what the Council has shown relatively great solid solid solidarity in these matters, because these are crucial human rights matters that determine a huge share for a particular group in our community, so I want to use this opportunity and thank the respect, the General and Education Committee for a good job in these issues, and I hope that here we are going to do another step in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u35	A respectable president. Honoured, contemporaneous, dear nation. I wanted to draw attention to the queers or queers or to those who define themselves as men or women that they are completely dissociated when they arrive in the management of registered partners. It says that there is a 40% and a 60% ratio between men and women. There's no room for these people. This needs fixing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u36	Mr. President. This is a case that has many good things, but unfortunately, this issue is of the nature that identifies this government too much that the descriptions of the plans are good, but they may not be the same. In fact, I am deeply concerned about the possible effects, as the members of the Central Party discussed some details of this matter in 1st, and I heard very good talks from then on. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. paritaprevir In the second discussion, consider the Eyjólfur of the Ármannsson's Son. The concern is that by increasing the number of factors that need to be mentioned specifically, there are benefits to conclude that others are not protected. But what is far more concerned is that this bill forbids criticism of a certain outlook on life, firm opinions, and the Council to allow the law against criticism, so I resist this bill. That's when we're talking about votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u37	A respectable president. We've found that this bill and, in particular, the Eyjólfur of the Ármannsson, we've had some problems on this bill, and we're also particularly sure whether we're taking the prohibition on blasphemy again and there's more on this matter, and I think it might be a good idea to go back to a committee and try to reform. But as with the situation, we're going to have a party of Shockers on the nest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u38	President. I had the odd experience earlier that I was trying to censor only the committee opinion that I have here in a financial program with the title in one chapter of the program. What the hell's worse is a financial plan. There was a word in which she was inappropriately against some standard or such. I was impressed by this bill when it all came down to it, and I'd appreciate it if the government only remembered it and only accept it from informative to now, and it was clearly a little more familiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u39	Prime Minister, Mr. President, I've been tracking a discussion that has taken place within the committee, and I honestly feel that in view of the legislation that already applies to equal treatment in the labour market, we are here. A senator's concern is that such legislation should apply outside the work market, which is in harmony with all our rights policy, equality, and how we want to resist any form of discrimination. There have been some activities that have been held that I don't have time to look into, but fine if the committee rethinks the matter between second and third discussion so that some of the misunderstandings that have been raised in the discussion can be eliminated. But I have to say, I find it incomprehensible if anything happens. Councilmen want to have a legal environment outside the labour market, not within the labour market, and resist the benefits involved in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u40	Should the General and Education Committee on provisional measures to expand this arrangement so that it would involve more than just the labour market, and that is what is being brought to the council now in the form of this bill, and I agree with the highest degree. One prime minister who spoke about the importance of extending these laws so that they would reach the community in general rather than just the labour market, even if it is necessary on their own. It's coming into the rhythm of Generalis's will at the time. I've heard the matter should go into a committee between traffic and I don't make any comment. You can look at some things there better, but I thought it was a very much progressive step and voted with these matters with great joy here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u41	I record that this law is being updated in accordance with what happens at the labour market. It's just like a figure of the case, and it's clearly out of the question. But I don't think I'm going to take it back into a committee and try to accept a viewpoint that's an option, and I'm going to do it here. But I reiterate that this matter has been repeated on the committee and carefully reviewed, and I think it is very important that to countries here before the Senate, they address a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u42	President. I've been a powerful spokesman for bringing these laws into effect, but I think it's important to make specific comments that we have in the legal process as they are today. The aim of the law on equal treatment regardless of race or nationality is to counteract discrimination and to establish and maintain the equal treatment of individuals irrespective of race and ethnic backgrounds in all areas of the community outside the workplace, but these laws have proved to be of little value in counteracting discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic background, resulting in little success. Thus, the laws in the present form have failed to reach their goal and the benefits of adding more discrimination to appeals before adding them are unclear. In addition, we are not sure, and we are concerned that by bringing this bill back to the law against blasphemy that this council has taken away, and it's something we think it's important to look into the payment of this case because, of course, we want to improve the rights and protect the rights of all the groups here in Iceland. That's our theme for all our work here at Pirates, but we believe it's the right thing to do. This did not limit others'rights and freedom of expression. Let's say another time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u43	Mr. President. The main defense in this case seems to be that it has already made a similar mistake in another area, so we need to continue with it in this regard. It's like the story of Einar Einbjörn, Tvíbjörn Þríbjörn and all of them, and then we can expect to stay attached to this matter without the real content of the case. It's the same thing over and over again. It's a question of dressing. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir pointed out and doesn't always agree. The benefits of this in the rights protection are very unclear. On the other hand, there is a very serious danger, and I would not just say danger. Rather, it is stated in the bill that there is the possibility of stifling criticism of human opinion, differing viewpoints, and here at the National Assembly of Iceland must be a safeguard of freedom of speech and criticism of any nature they are, whether they are bad, that good. We must want to defend public freedom in order to criticize the opinions of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u44	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Now, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has been talking here in a pita, or at least I have discussed with members of the Central Party II that there is a difference between communication, exchange of opinions, and discrimination. Here, discrimination is being banned, not forbidding disagreements and expressing it anywhere. So I think we need to make it clear that here is a prohibition against discrimination on various grounds, not against forbidment of conflicting views. It's just wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u45	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in customs laws that include delinquency of tolls on products raised in Ukraine. The bill suggests the addition of temporary laws to customs. The regulations stipulate to eliminate customs from the products transferred into the state's customs area and, to all respects, the rise in Ukraine. Hence, this law does not cover products produced in Ukraine from the raw materials produced by other countries. The demolition of customs under the bill is expected to be temporary and valid and on May 31, 2023. With the bill's proposal, Ukraine's address to the EFTA states is instigating the Russian invasion that it will improve customs benefits for Ukraine beyond what is already recommended in a free trade agreement between parties. According to the Convention, industrial products and marine products are voluntary, and therefore the bill for delinquency will be proposed primarily for agriculture. The main objective of this bill is to show that Iceland wants to support Ukraine and thus show this support in action, making the necessary changes in law in order to pay for business in the troubled times of Ukraine because of the unscrupulous Russian attack on an independent and sovereign state. A respectable president. I would like to mention that this is a matter that is obviously very late and that has been arranged by means of variations, and that is commendable. But the bill has been decommissioned in the government and has entered the council as rapidly as possible after the occasion. I know there are few days left to survive this council, but hopefully this case can still be handled on a committee. I have no doubt that such matters as this are highly supported here at the council. It is not expected that the bill will have only a very insignificant impact on government funds. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. I think that all of us here are supporting the whole point of this matter, which is one factor that is given under six assessments of impact, which is described as being a relatively modest import from Ukraine or a total of 550 million in 2021. But it is specifically specified here by President's permission: I can't find it now. Yes, yes, sir, by permission of the President. In particular, there is milk powder, but it is possible for such importers to become such, that milk powder may actually be such the only product that might be affected by the approval of this bill. As to import. Then, questions and thinking about how successful agrienvironmental conditions have been in terms of the recent decline in agricultural development, since these factors were not getting worse and operating conditions. Their requirements for agriculture at the beginning of the Ukraine war would have been a much longer process, and I now understood that it was estimated that a so - called rapid Food Minister will yield results that would be presented at a government meeting this morning. If I understood correctly, I don't know if it was. At any rate, they have not received any information about the media work, as I know. But what I want to ask the highest. A minister to see if any assessment was made on this one factor specified in the bill's report that it might have had a considerable interest, a considerable impact, and whether the Minister would envision some counterweight action to that particular factor. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u47	Then an answer must be answered. A respectable president. Yes, as I mentioned, agrienvironmental products may be more likely to test import because other customs have not been in place. This is similar to the decline of customs that we have seen in neighboring nations, such as the British have. I've gone very far. I don't think we've been able to perform an assessment on this end, but I think it would depend on a considerable degree of uncertainty to try to estimate that the amount that could possibly come from the country. How difficult it has been to get lips on a head from Ukraine! But then perhaps we're here to open up a little more than an hour of a window, and as well as a track of transport, we've been blocked up as we know about the conflict and the changes in energy markets, we can say. However, there was also a request for a run-in, and there will be a meeting at the Ministerial Committee in the morning for the results of his findings. I'd like to say with the agriculture that it's all going to be on its own next door. A senator said that agriculture has been a problem in many lands. But we can't say that there was a general problem with agriculture in Iceland, e.g. in the milk production, there have been very much compression and production, and these have become much larger and more powerful than ever since. It's been very difficult for sheep to make. Also, there have been tremendous changes, and one of the points that are considered in this group is that I think of being just working conditions there. You parking is in many ways a big offense and they're investing and I think there's a lot of potential gardening in Iceland that wouldn't be everywhere. However, the wars are adding to a difficult situation, especially to food prices and so forth. Hv. 8th yrs Witchest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister responds, but I think what happened here at the highest level. A minister in regard to the fact that other nations have already taken up the task of opening up products from Ukraine, it seems to me that so many of the nations we prefer, perhaps, have taken such more extensive measures in the management conditions of agriculture in their own habitats. So I just got to say the best. For example, a minister to look at this whole thing now so that, in fact, a large number of possible farmers who do sheep's farms or produce beef, for example, is not lost now because of the temporary conditions on the markets because it is. In part, this is a crisis, and he has to be faced, I think, in a far more decisive way than the government has already done. However, there is again the long - range problem that will not escape the intense shooting. But I think, in any case, we need to make sure that there will not be major withdrawals from these classes that produce the most wholesome products in the world. Because of a temporary situation that farmers themselves have no control over, the highest. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u49	You don't have to answer that second time, Mr. President. I just want to say the word with what. Senator. I think it's important, and we've been looking forward to the fact that there's no reason for us to do less than we have been doing around us, and it's absolutely true that in many places there have been a measure of support, so I expect it when the proposals are done and then it will show that we're both in a position to react, and we want to make it more handsome, so that it will be yes, not out of the branches, without necessity of these unexpected events and tragedy. But that is, for example, Based on the cost of agricultural development, but also food that has been rising very rapidly, this is having an enormous impact on production costs, and if nothing is done, that is correct. A senator says that food production in Iceland can be very traumatic, and we'll keep it in mind here that the war has brought food production in Iceland in a somewhat new light. Then there is a more realistic meaning, such as immediate food security, when everything is calm and there is peace, and chains of transport are all open. Then I'm not understanding that food security is a big issue for national security, but when conflict breaks out and all of this chain of separation is disturbed and markets get up. It is time to remind you of the importance of this fundamental factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u50	A respectable president. The concept of laser condemnation became a great concern for the country two years ago. We joined together in a frightening stranger situation, not only in this country, but in the world and most of our best actions, although some have been stealing to go to parties shortly before Christmas despite mass restrictions. No, it's unprecedented. That's a good word. There are other things we could use. The whole world stands to picture in the face of unprecedented consequences. Mankind's shame, climate, disasters, the land of animals all over the world is destroying, the drought is increasing. The surfaces of the sea are rising. The earth's prey is becoming more and more warm and warmer to nature damage to virtually impossible. There's a degree of variation going on every day of large companies or just public citizens around the world. All ecology stability is a staggering threat to the impending extinction of species. It's always the windows. The human being that's causing it. The strangest thing is, I don't have to tell you this, we all know this, and there's almost no need to count again. What is really the most strange thing about this disaster must be where you can call it nothing more than the unprecedented disorientation of officials around the world, and it doesn't matter whether it's politicians, oil, it's just the managers of big corporations who are sitting behind a business faceless mask. More often than not the company does something, there is always a person behind who chooses a course of pessimism. This unprecedented situation could have been avoided long ago by right decisions, and fortunately, the worst consequences can still be avoided. The traveling overseer was an unprecedented experience. It is true, but we felt how simple it can be for people to take effective action instead of drilling their noses and pretending that everything is going down, unlike the lack of prejudice in the epidemic, the world still lacks the tools to cope with the largest crisis we face in an effective way. These are rice, which stretch far beyond the limits of what individual states can achieve. We. We still lack ways to make powerful people responsible for the effects that could have on the earth almost universally. The world seems determined to look away when it comes to such events as the problem just because we ignore the fact that there is no such thing as just some imaginary monster's bed. How can we, Iceland, be a model for other countries in climate? How can we show initiative and may wish to mention the matter properly? We are not even doing enough for the most important things when it comes to the goals that the government will set up in Iceland as a recession in greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. So we have to spit in our palms. But to cope with big and new problems, you need many tools, and new tools are needed. However, the more effective it is, although it may not be used often, it is quite simple and well known. It's just a responsibility, one of the easiest changes to make a change in the minds of those in authority is to admit their personal responsibility for the decisions we make in behalf of international corporations or governments or where their responsibility is. In recent years this idea has given rise to movement over acknowledging the concept of a certain murder as an international crime. We are one of the countries that translates this into our language, so other countries do not understand it, but in most countries the name of a certain murder in coral seats. It's like this if people start gouging. This is easier to find, but a certain murder is formally defined as an illegal or arbitrary act performed, although it is known that the ceremony could have serious and extensive or long term environmental damage. These are the largest environmental impacts, but these are also the environmental impacts that usually do not account for the lack of order. It has been called for legal measures for the general public to accept their rights as such by their actions or lack of activity responsible for these biggest talk and formal recognition of an address would respond to that need. The purpose of the term is to ensure the rightness of nature so that individuals can take the initiative to fight for justice in behalf of nature in behalf of the earth in behalf of the future for all of us, if the government is to lead in the environment and climate. Then it is stated that we agree that Iceland is leading to the acceptance of a certain murder as a violation of international law that will fall under the international criminal court as well as to suggest here at the General Assembly to improve ecoves into Icelandic legal legislation. Thus we can add weight to the scales in order to ensure adequate legal protection for the earth. Nor would we be alone. Similar suggestions are discussed in some 20 countries these days. Finland was added to the group during the last week when a conquistador proposal was proposed in the Finnish Parliament. Then there is Belgium as the country that has come one of the longest in this journey. There the council agreed to a proposal that is comparable to what I recommend at the end of the year and is continuing the work. Now they have a bill in their hands to tie it up in young national law. The International Parliament's Association, as well as other alliances for approval, has given high attention to the fact that the term will be taken seriously worldwide. But it may be noted that the battle for this recognition has been brought about by the nations, which are next to the most serious consequences of the unprecedented time we are living in. They are the kingdoms who are simply fighting for their existence, their very existence. Climate change is a threat. It is a kingdom like Vanuatu and the Maldives that could simply disappear from the surface of the earth in this century if nothing is done. It should be easy for us to show them our support. President. We are in unprecedented times, facing one of the most important decisions that human society has ever had to make and hopefully with the seriousness we will ever have to make. After all, it falls into our laps as elected members of Congress. Today, we face the difficult facts, the threats that become more tangible and broad with each passing day and respond in a way that enables us to ensure the security of the nation and the world at all times, it is not up to anyone other than us by accepting this decision's resolution and by sticking to the big words when it comes to fighting for international reforms and making its contents a national law we can show the world's power. We can show the world that we do not die helplessly. Rather, we have the strength and courage to act when so many look away, as if nothing has happened. We can show a vital example that could lead even more nations to join us in making sure that the power can guarantee the consequences of its actions. Hopefully, we can agree to overcome future environmental metropolitan lines and try to achieve cross political resolutions about the environment and the climate. That. Mr. President, I believe, in part, reflects that we represent one-half category at the General Assembly, which is on this proposal. There are four categories, the four categories that showed the greatest ambition when young environmentalists considered our policies to be our last election, which, rather than the present election, are at peace with the political parties, matters, since the reality we see is not a question of politics, not just the present but the future. They're also at stake. The world's stewards are under obligation to protect nature and the earth from nature itself. It's for future generations. Yeah. And finally, I do not expect this matter to go on to the General and Education Committee after a previous discussion. No more have taken a vow of silence and are done with discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u51	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend to the Committee's committee a greater part of the budget hearing of a proposal for the interpretation of a financial plan for the year 2023-2027. The proposal is on the 5th floor. a law on government finance where it says that a minister should propose to the General a proposal to conclude a financial plan until the next five years. In all, there were 26 reviews and 18 members of the committee. As mentioned in this article, after referring to the committee in March, we have discussed the matter in a number of meetings. A number of changes have taken place in economic outlooks since the approval of financial plans for the year 2022 mouse a year ago. The strategy has now been updated based on the latest effectiveness of Iceland's Habitat and is essentially about economic progress and economic control of the role of the government. Expansion is estimated to be an average of 37 billion higher per year, in accordance with the cost of 2022, or a total of some 148 billion dollars. The changes in the topic range between estimates are largely a health problem, with the increase in donations being made in a new hospital. There is increasing emphasis on innovation, as indicated by the increase in donations each year by 103/411 billion from the previous schedule. A respectable president. It is now apparent that the measures taken because of the economic breakdowns that resulted from the pandemic yielded the expected results. The expansion of the state funds and exchanges have resulted in rapid acceptance of the nation's economic economy. All major measures demonstrate that the use of financial resources for the protection of households and businesses is unmistakably successful. Otherwise, resistance would not be as powerful. At the same time that the economy takes place after a pandemic crown virus, and economic growth as well as employment prospects, there is uncertainty about the war in Ukraine because of reductions in the stock markets. This has changed the economic presidents since the beginning of the year. Inflation is the greatest threat and the challenge to the economy at this time. It is anticipated that these circumstances will have a significant impact on the income and expenses of the state's budget. In view of the income side of the state's budget, there have been considerable fluctuations in the years, on the other hand, on the tax system itself, and on the tax returns by these taxes. The external factors such as the fall of WOW arraine and subsequent pandemic crown virus caused a decrease in taxes. During the past terms, a special emphasis was made on reducing the tax burden on low income paid individuals at the same time as tax revenue increased with the growth of the economy. This has resulted in significant reductions in tax returns from vehicles and fuel, with more electrical vehicles being made. The economic activities under the control of governments, along with vigorous employment, have enabled society to gain a more powerful resistance as government income is reaching historical proportions. So tea stems are getting closer to their original strength sooner than expected. Recently, counter measures due to increased inflation were under way that will reduce its impact on the vitality of society's most vulnerable groups. These included improvements in social security, special child reforms, and improvement in housing. On the other side of the coin, you can find the expenses of a government fund. In the past government, expenses and investments increased rapidly as a result of the improvement in the terms of the season. Health costs, social, housing and insurance, research, development, and climate were largely increasing over the course of the period, for example. Today, there is a new reality in which tensions in the economy need to be reduced in order to protect financial resources and provisional income. The public must not leave that behind. The financial program of this magazine shows that the growth of the Kingdom budget is continuing but that is considerably slower than the growth of the past few years. This includes a firm arrangement that requires a clear priority for expenses in the years to come. During the two months that have passed since the proposal was made, the economic situation has changed considerably compared to that of Iceland's National Institute of Economics, which lays the basis for the Senate resolution. The economic presidents of financial programs were published in March when the economic impact of war in Ukraine was not yet realized. The changes discussed are reflected in other people's current economic forecasts, including those in the EU. It's Iceland's Secret Bank. There, the greater the increase in in inflation and unemployment is expected. This trend is specifically explained in the Committee's opinion. At the same time that the economy takes over from a pandemic crown virus and economic growth as well as economic prospects, the war in Ukraine has caused some uncertainty, including uncertainty, to occur. due to prices and various secondary circumstances. This has changed the economic presidents since the beginning of the year. Inflation is expected to increase the income of a government fund to a short period of time, as the largest tax bases in the state are linked to the development of prices, e.g. worth tax on consumer products and income tax on pay. The same can be said of the spending side in view of the fact that a large part of the State's budget has some connection with inflation. As a result, in recent years, inflation is unlikely to have a significant impact on the survival of a government fund except in the year when it falls. A greater proportion of legal committees are particularly urging attention to measures aimed at protecting against inflation and worsening business prospects, especially in defense of smaller groups. According to recent reports of Iceland's Habitat, the annual change in index price is now 7.6%. This is the highest rate of change in the index from the spring months of 2010, which was about 8.6%. The main increases in index to last measurement can be found in food and beverages, housing costs, new cars, and costs in fuel and oil. Most investigators estimate that inflation will remain high beyond the year, or at least Until the fall. However, it is expected that in the next year, inflation will also be relatively persistent and it will occur at around 5%. Thus, in 2024, inflation will not begin to decrease and approach the cost of Iceland's Penitentiary. Iceland's late bank has, as we know, responded to inflation with significant increases in the bank's main growth, from 2.0% to 3.75% since the year. In the interest of major investigators, the average yield of economic growth is expected to be less than 5% this year. It may not be at this time, but it will have to go on in a little while. Economic growth will continue to increase beyond a year when tourists begin streaming to the country. Agents predict that the number of tourists this year will be in the range of 1,41.7 million people. A respectable president. This financial scheme is based on effective administrative cooperation that has been going on since 2017. At that time, expenses for key classes of well - being and education have increased dramatically. At the same time, there has been an invasion of innovation and research and investment in society's infrastructure that ensures future economic growth and competitiveness. If you examine the ten - year development of budgets, from 2017 to the end of this council resolution, total resources from 2017 on the price of 2022 to 2027 increase by 362 billion or 40% in actuality during these ten years. In view of the total increase in budgeted budgets, which show interest costs, pension debt and unemployment insurance, during the season it accounts for 47 billion, from 2023 to 2027. In terms of the sum, contributions are raised to the languages of the elderly are second most important, or about 13 billion. The contributions to the topic of innovation, research and knowledge are increasing by 3.6 billion, while the reductions in specific topic areas during this period are clear in the majority of cases of fluctuations in investment expenditures. Reductions in transport donations are the most significant factor, which is caused by a special investment campaign to offset the effects of a pandemic. It is estimated that framed expenses increase the absolute value of 292 billion over time, an increase of 37% in ten years. In terms of money, contributions to hospital services increase most or about 40.6 billion. Will this be explained by real - life growth to the operation of Hospitals and Hospital Buildings? The subjects of the elderly rise by 33 billion and anticipate a considerable increase in the elderly during the period as well as the increase in pensions. The reserve funds rise 32.6 billion in accordance with the objective of government funds and contributions to disability and the products of disabled people by nearly 32 billion. Health and other health care programs outside the hospital increase by nearly 22 billion, and by about 17.5 billion for innovation, research, and knowledge. Medicinal products and medical products increase by less than 14 billion; contributions to university by more than 11 billion; and as a nurse of 11 billion is the largest raise in reserves; this was a very little at the beginning of the season. President. By 13. The law on government financial matters requires financial advisers to provide an evaluation and an opinion on financial programmes. Official financial policies and policy evaluations are an important tool for government discussion. In the Commission opinion, we draw out key points in which financial advice is provided to us members of the committee we have been discussing both in recent years and in recent years, and we continue, trying to set us up as role models and, of course, to be joined by the Board of Directors and the Ministry of State. The majority agree with much of what you think. Special attention should be given to the importance of investments under transport and communication sectors. To compare investment options, such as the work programme and the priorities of the plan, it is important to develop a set of priorities. Similarly, the more part depends on the view that in today's economic system, it is important that government policy is in line with money policy with moderate maintenance instead of being expanding as state income increases as a result of increasing economic activity. In other words, saving may now be advisable. There is a committee study to find an overview of the work that the greater part considers urgent and highlights. It is important to sharpen the priority of projects within the financial frame rather than constantly request additional funds for new projects. The review of the current budget needs to be enhanced. Examples of such growth and the will of the government to make administrations more selective and efficient are the changes under Iceland's Management Board for reorganisation of projects within recruitment and recruitment. The majority stress the need for greater efficiency in the public business, for increased agreements and agreements between recruitments as the key to improving the use of funds. The development of digital solutions in cooperation with Digital Iceland was successful during the early term. Such investments are an example of improving the quality of a ministry that at the same time could bring lasting benefits to government management. Therefore, it is important that the maintenance of government over the years do not reduce the motivation for digital evolution in public service but contribute to it as a means of making better use of the funds spent in the ministry. Public property, especially government property, has to be used better. There is a significant lack of introduction to the current policy. The more part of the report continues to be that a full process will be implemented on the basis of tenet policy and the legal framework for the export and use of land areas to further the future growth and opportunity. Emphasis the importance of achieving a much more targeted integration to disrupt specific resolutions in various aspects of the infrastructure. It is not always a matter of increasing government funds but of using the right methods and motivation to attract the exposure to the infrastructure that society cannot afford to build up. A respectable president. A member of the Committee's Committee on key topic areas can be found in this article. I'm going to tap on a big one, end time limited, and draw out key things. The financial programme offers a review of road and vehicle taxation. As I said at the outset, there has been a significant change in the use of automobiles. There has been a significant lack of taxation on the uses of the country's road system if compared to the previous taxation arrangements. In view of the greater part, taxation has to be reimbursed to link right incentives and support energy exchange and greenhouse gas emissions targets. It is also important to have proper incentives for the variety of transport workers, and this is said in view of the fact that much longer will not be overlooked if roads are not available, the maintenance of roads will suffer. The majority suggest that the change in taxation results from the weight of a vehicle one of the things that will be seen to the end of a more heavier vehicle will be the most likely to occur according to the road. But we also place great emphasis on the need to be careful about the taxation. When the next budget is due, changes must be made to reflect the use of vehicles on the road system. The majority feel that long - term investment in transport workers is very productive. Such investment can also be used as a means of economic management, and it can be carried out in areas that are more complex and less productive. Smaller projects, such as road construction and road safety measures, are more often than no human cost. This financial program is being promoted in the rebuilding process. At the same time, there is ambitious and good aims for the construction of transport workers in the capital area with a historical agreement made by rural society and the government. Governments have placed special emphasis on innovation and have devoted enormous resources to research funds, reimbursement, motivation, and support networks. Despite all the factors involved, climate, health, and equality have been promoted. The government's emphasis on innovation and support has been on the promotion of higher values. Extensive growth in the export of intelligence and growth is a basis for future economic growth. At the same time, it is necessary to better identify the benefits of reimburse and identify the obstacles in a progressive way in order to get the most benefit from funding. This has been initiated on the budget board and, in fact, on some part, on the job committee. The committee encourages government agencies to use the technical solutions that come from government support systems. Some neighbors are buying the services of Icelandic innovation companies, e.g. In health technology, but it's not new here. Officials must be encouraged to use domestic solutions that it has invested in and built up. In this context, it is important to note that the government's investment in digital solutions fits the bioavailability of citizens to the state and save expenses. It is estimated that the official's annual savings from such investments will be about 9 billion each year. President. In recent decades, most of the business projects that have been used in our jobs along with the tourism services all depend on the fact that contributions to research have been made significantly. A competition fund is a good tool for attracting attention in research, capitalism, and people. However, long-term studies, i.e. The monitoring and monitoring of many fundamental factors that do not agree with competitive funds is still the basis for many research and development projects. The majority of the money increases to competitive funds are important, but also the priority for tourism, marine research, agriculture, architecture, and geology needs to be established. Soil and natural hazards are in addition to the above factors, which could be described as a work route, and are areas that need to be more emphasised. The majority point to the government to work on the contrary to the Department of Legal Affairs to set a standard for basic research in these areas and on their funding. The majority rejoices with the food secretary's work on the activities and definition of national food security. Food production is now facing severe threats, and growth in raw prices is increasing in the air. It will be expected that in the near future, food supply will be drawn together as a result. There is a possibility that lack will continue for the next year. This trend will significantly affect the public's standard of living, which needs to spend a larger portion of its income for food. With a shortage and an alarming increase in price targets, the state of agricultural production is extremely fragile. Clearly, all cost increases to consumers cannot be considered. The greater part reminds us that in this year's budget, about 750 million were proposed to meet the level of waste management. Specific measures must be taken to determine whether and how to support the primary manufacturers in order to maintain the ability and willingness to produce. The majority of them do not consider dealing with this problem merely a problem of farmers and deforestation. In order to improve food security and protection, food production has to be maintained on a much broader basis in the country. Farming is a fundamental factor in climate development, and it is important to trust the development of Icelandic society through a balance between one's life and nature. There is strong evidence that agriculture can be applied through intensive agricultural research and further improvements in climate. The increased domestic product of vegetable production, reducing import, improving use and management, and improving agricultural feeding supports this development and reduces the negative effects of man-made climate change. In order to advance with green and climate - changing agriculture, it is important to have clear vision and goals. Seafood is one of economic supplies and is inhabited in the land. It is important to trust the article at the same time that we look forward to the future. It is in common with the government and the fishing business that the setting of this article is based on sustainability. In particular, in a government contract, the need to build up continued work on the report of a financial and economic minister group, Green marine initiatives, in order to meet the established climate goals. As noted earlier, marine research provides the basis for the use of marine crops. So groundwork and other research in the ocean are fundamental. By means of a new research vessel, more opportunities have been opened to increase monitoring and measurement. It is important to ensure that the best use of human resources and the research tools in this field. In addition, research supports green exchanges in the seaside, and it is important to support and promote natural protection and energy exchange through a recession and green investment. Following a war effort by the Russians in Ukraine, fishing prices have risen considerably with a significant increase in income for fishing companies, both in fishing and in fishing. In view of the state's state funds position to the next year, the Commission would like to promote a better outcome in this article to provide higher fishing costs and to direct it to the government, that the possibility of further revenue is inevitable if necessary. The economic benefits of fish breeds are increasing each year. It is important that the greater part of the study should be considered specifically for use in fish farms for further valuables through increased research and post-trial episodes with a change in rules resulting from increased knowledge and experience in the past few years. Governments are required to ensure that all decisions about fish farming work are based on scientific research on the ecosystems, biodiversity, and the environment. A respectable president. Travel service is the fastest industry in recent years. It broke children's robes, one of the main exports of the country. All long-term policy decisions must be based on solid foundation and on the long-term improvement in stability and stability of the article. As mentioned earlier, the more part will agree that tourism needs to be done and that such a job needs to be enhanced. There is a great need for development in many tourist areas and, in itself, a wide variety of ways to finance and meet that need for building up. Here are reasonable user fees and parking expenses. Then the pay could be paid by coming back to the country, which in turn would support the state funds that it grows out of the present economic crisis, as well as the development of mass tourist attractions. Thus, I would like to reiterate the majority of the Committee that for the next budget, a plan for their use will be implemented for their routes and for the development of multi-fished tourist areas. In the context of reliable studies of earthquakes and natural disasters, as mentioned earlier, it is important to keep a broad security issue in perspective. The majority point to new and growing challenges faced by public security and law enforcement. In the 2019th century, the international defences have been working almost constantly since the storm, coping with earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, landslides, and other activities that have proved necessary. This has increased the pressure of law enforcement through tourism, traffic accidents, and other accidents, as well as the growing number of Internet crime. In particular, improved studies of sexual crime, increased speech rates, and more intensive law enforcement support the aim of the government on increasing emphasis on equality and sexual freedom. Our online safety, however, asks not only for an increase in Internet crime but also for stable communication and Internet security. There have been steps in the market of the telecommunications market for further integrated investments. New communication laws play a key role in which sources of cooperation make it possible to blow for further application. The government also holds many important communications timbers that can support further efforts. Strong communication is the basis for long - term employment and human life. At that time, the majority of the shares are directed to the government to make money through rent on frequency lines of communication that can study up to 750 million, but they do not seem to be taken into account in this financial programme, to promote Internet security and communication activities. A respectable president. Increased energy research is one of the main factors in energy exchange and climate, and it is important to maintain the increase made by budget 2022 in place, the same with the funds for the Agency. This financial program continues to support the development of the electrical distribution system in scattered regions. The focus has been on equal costs for distribution and ensures access to a solid distribution system. In this country, transport energy transfers have made progress and have focused on the policy of the government. It raises important political questions about the availability of people and companies in solid relationships with the electrical power system and the supply safety. Much money has been spent to balance the cost of distribution, but it is rarely achieved to the level of equality, which is legal. The energy exchange is a national project, and it is important to support the funding and order of the nation. The bioavailability of enterprises and communities into electricity is widely inhibited when it comes to housing security and valuables. It is considered that the greater part would be considered to be a major measure of decision-making in energy production, the structure of the distribution system and its arrangements. This suggests that, in order to achieve a larger balance between the population in the country and to reduce the financial resources needed to live under this equation over time, the major contribution to the development of electricity transport costs will be reimbursed. V.E.G. President. Then we turn to health and social matters. Medical science has advanced in recent years and has led to a wide variety of newities in the treatment of disease. New technologies and new medicines have been identified that may make a difference for patients, but in many cases, new treatments include a huge increase in health care expenses. It is important to use technology and innovation to provide better service and to increase its effectiveness. At the same time, increasing emphasis must be made on public health measures, promoting health and health lifestyles to prevent disease. It is important to take appropriate measures to detect pre-existing abnormalities for early intervention and to prevent disease development and complications. Such public health projects are one of the best provisions to reduce the rate of rising health costs, including Because of the nation's aging. The greater part also points to the need for overall health care policies rather than to focus on individual problems that are too high. The development of health matters calls for an integrated system in which all health institutions, nursing homes, and community service are involved. In this way, both older and older ones can improve quality of life and make it possible for older ones to live in their homes longer. The majority of the budget committees welcome new contracts for nursing homes and want to reimburse the importance of following these contracts and continuing to develop and improve domestic operations. We know that the development of new aging institutions has been delayed and that funding new homes and contracts have been important. The majority rejoices that in this financial program, the pace is the first step toward the government's goal to simplify the micro-organization system and improve the quality of biofuels. It is important to combine data groups, reduce income connections, and increase the availability of job support for those who have it. It is important to ensure good service to disabled people in line with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. The treaty has already called for important and significant changes in the implementation of services to disabled people in the past and in the future that will greatly improve their quality of life. Social and workforce minister has reported on the establishment of a group of personnel to shape suggestions on government and rural division due to what we know as NAPA agreements. The next financial programme needs to look to this group's conclusions regarding the financial resources of the rural society in order to meet the international commitment of Iceland. The greater part highlights the importance of developing a progressive and long - term policy in the affairs of foreigners that contribute to the success and mutual adaptation of immigrants and local and thus preventing the formation of an immigrant community. At the same time, the services of public parties, whether by state or by rural society, reflect the large population that has been formed here. Not only is it a matter of justice but it has to do with rich national interests that people, regardless of their background, have an opportunity for active participation in society and at work. Finally, homes are considered to be in question. The main objective of public housing policy is to ensure the security of all the citizens of the country, but the cumulative need for housing is one of the greatest challenges to economic management. In view of this, the importance of reducing tension in the economy is seen in the majority of the budgetary committees in order to protect money and resources. Remuneration of households for increasing inflation calls for the development of social housing. The majority stress that financial support for housing for those who need it will be based on reliable programmes and that the aims of financial plans for its duration will be followed. In particular, because of the problems of tenants and social construction organizations, public or private projects are required. As I've been trying to run on this, President, economics have changed considerably since the plan was submitted. This is taken into account both on the income side and on the remuneration side of the schedule. The aim is also to exploit the eco-efficiency in the economy in order to reduce the angle of state funds more rapidly than expected, which is in line with the policy of money reduction of inflation by reducing growth in the economy. Most income stocks rise from a voluntary schedule. This is in harmony with new economic leaders and ingathering development for the remaining year. Of individual taxes, there is the largest increase in cost-to-treat, individual income tax, insurance fees and fiscal taxes. Despite less actual growth of private consumption than planned, value taxation is re-evaluated due to increased inflation and basic effects of revenue during the past year. The main changes in the pay edge of the budget are to increase the expected salary, social security and cost of compensation, to raise interest costs due to price gains, which have a slight impact on the next year and the second, but to decrease thereafter, to counter-improvement measures to support the income-based home due to increased inflation costs increase the cost of spending by 51.77 billion a year and finally there are measures to help with the improvement in the economy that have been reviewed before. There are several other modifications, e.g. it is estimated that expenses increase as a result of increasing number of refugees this year and next year. Then there are the reductions due to a total of 7 billion less unemployment, to name just a few. A total of these changes account for the annual reduction of 15 to 33 billion. All but 75 billion - to - increase changes in the rate of the programme. The total increase in Kingdom funds is expected to be about 30 billion over the next year and over 20 billion years thereafter. A respectable president. I hereby speak and suggest that the suggestions of the greater part be agreed upon by the changes outlined in his Committee and made available in a special Senate document. I would also like to mention that it is wrong to consider the greater part of the section on page 24. The 16, 5th increase in the number of refugees and thus, which are spoken of as 2 billion each year, is the current year and the next year, not 2023 and 2024.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u52	President. I wanted to ask the highest. Chairman of a financial committee: Is this financial program really explaining to us government policy? I would have expected that the problems we face in general are that we are struggling with an underlying balance in government finances. There is definitely a health system problem, just the whole system, the emergency unit and all into nursing homes, the cause, housing, older people's affairs, the affairs of disability, resource cases, the pressures of the mass epidemic now that tourists are returning to a much greater degree than they were expected immediately following the epidemic and most of the things listed in the panel of the highest standards. In fact, the chairman of the budgetary committee was a repetition of what was decided during the last terms, and financial programs are about to an enormous extent. It is very little new, and there is nothing really about these big social problems, their situation, and how governments' policies will make them better and how better they are, but it is just so common that they are going to contribute to these things. But there is nothing necessary to understand what it's like to put money to solve these problems, and what are we getting for the funding we're putting in these classes? They need a complete explanation, and I just wanted to ask them the chairman of a financial committee: Is it acceptable that we receive such a document from the government that is not really explaining anything to anyone? There were many guests who talked about it from a transparent viewpoint. It was also spoken of by a financial body. A counterclockwise in this financial program would not be the answer. Honored.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u53	Yeah. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We've only taken this conversation, if I may tell you before, and not anything new in it, especially when it comes to improving production, increasing transparency, and increasing their understanding of the subject, whether it is a financial plan or when the budget, as we have been discussing here repeatedly for many years, and looking at the steps rather slowly than anyone. I may not be unusual for a plan to change dramatically between years of age, as we just heard not so long ago in the company who visited us that it should be that it would not be moved for five years or longer even. I don't really know if I agree with that because, as it turns out, we're in a system that makes it move a lot. No doubt there is always room for debate as to whether a government policy will be clearly identified in a schedule at any given time. No doubt we can help if we try to draw out more of a salad word and more where it is well. A senator then expressed and more what to say as a goaler or something like that and I agree completely with him because there is a better way to perform it. Plans appear and appear in financial terms. In itself, it may be said that it is a large plow, but it could be even clearer. We're there, I think, totally agree. But we must not forget that these are the big lines. We'll arrange it for the so-called ones. How will we do so? There may be more in the budget of each year, but there is still another possibility. I just agree with that on policy. It gives an answer to a second one, what. 6th. Smoke. S......
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u54	The request of Leví Gunnarsson, the president of the United States, is certainly required to show exactly how to perform things in that year, but the policy is to be set up in a financial programme, and examples such as this in reality not just the words of this part are stated in a government contract, with the permission of a president: Set us a national target of 55% reduction of the direct responsibility of the Iceland for 2030 compared to 2005. So says three places in the financial program, with the permission of a president: Iceland is involved in the EU's aim to achieve a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. Then, in accordance with the European Union, to take Iceland and Norway as part of a joint target of 55% reduction which has been integrated from 40 to 55% within 40%. The goal is for Iceland's responsibility, which falls outside the ETS, and once again, independent goals are spoken of by 55% in 2000, and in 2005 they go back and forth. There's something there. 55% decrease that governments are able in some amazing way to set it up in three different ways with the wrong date up and down in their financial plan. How's that working out for you? That's when an answer's answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u55	One or two. paritaprevir Yes, Madam President Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. I say again: Of course, the government's agreement is one thing, so the budget is different, and we need to keep it in mind. A senator may have been referring to his goals in the program, other goals, and the way we are going to achieve them, and the most likely advisability in them should be made up of a series of measures that follow exactly as well. A senator was referring to the climate issue. But I'll agree again with that. A senator says I agree that we can make this clear. We can do this inexpensively without saying what to say because we're talking about complaining a little bit often because there are too many words about the same thing again that we can say in a clearer and clearer way, and we're still applying ourselves in it, and I haven't forgotten that we're going to find ourselves trying to handle this assignment. Because I think it's important to all of us, as is true of those who have this discussion in town. It'll give you the opposite respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to direct the question to an honored Chairman if it agrees with the claims of the Supreme Court. Secretary of health and the highest. The secretary of finance that our health - care system is fully funded after our lecture on this program at meetings where visitors came to us, and the reviews show that there was a total of 1% missing, a total of 1 percent in actual growth in the operating expenses for the Land Hospital to keep things gone. It also states that new nursing service contracts are not filled, that a quarter of the people in the Land Hospital are used in aging services, although there is really no definition of the degree of aging services required by the Land Hospital. So we've also seen it and it's been published publicly, calculations showing the development of money to the Land Hospital, taking into account the development of pay, nursing weight, and the like, that it was just so for co to know that they were working to their early postages after years of surgery and that considering, in fact, nursing weight and hospital projects, contributions to the hospital have fallen. We also see in the review of a financial body that the income of a government fund to support welfare services become the lowest in this century that binds hands and tie up the hands of a government fund when it comes to welfare services. So my question to the Chairman of the Honorable Committee is where he stands on this matter. Does she mean that income is good, the state's position is good? Would you like a distinguished chairman to mean that you don't need any more money into the health system? Does the health care providers suspect what is going on in the health system? And the Honorable Director of Fundamental Affairs considers priorities to be the highest priority. Governments is the one? That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u57	Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Yeah. Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Perhaps I'd like to say first about the quality of income, the status of state funds. The reason may be that, in part, we're suggesting here, we feel that we need to increase the income of a trust fund, which is exactly what we now make in making this plan we used to right it, too, as I know it. A senator may have read and noticed, but we believe that there is a reason for us to look in other directions and point to a point that is not part of the arrangement that is being done now, but we don't think the two ministers are worth saying false, no more than I can say that those who come to our house are telling us to lie. That is why it is very important that we consider certain numbers to be better, and especially now, in my opinion, the budget. Of course, we have quite a summary from last summer's, what was collected a lot of data and variables about the hospital in particular. Because the tendency is always to talk a little bit about Land Hospital is certainly our largest organization in this area. But it's forgotten that all the other things, since we have to watch our institutions work a lot more together, and I think that there's quite a lot more to it because in 2016-2020 the number of years we're doing rights at the Land Hospital increased by about 500, by 13%, and by the time we take Kuwait in 20 of that, there's a 400-year job. However, it adds up to the use of the budget of 7%, so there's something we need to do better somewhere, and I don't think we need to go to the emergency room when we can go and be able to get at least trained to be a ministerial servant. The President would like to remind the senators to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u58	Yes, a respectable president, this may be very interesting to hear in terms of the fact that more of the legal committees are willing to make further increases in income because the side is broken, but we will see how this will develop. I wanted to make quick use of opportunities here at the end and to draw attention to other factors that are spoken of in the greater part of the world but that are relevant to the distribution costs, and that much money is often spent on it, and that rarely the aims are noted in the context that there are goals in the financial program that will not change in the period from 78% to 85%, 2020, and 93% 2027, but we know that the financial committee is aware of the answer given, called respect from the Ministry, that there is not enough money in the project that this will not change over time so that the goal is not due to the lack of financial support. What is the position of the Honorable Director of Fundament to this position? And in view of the obvious lack of harmony with this trend, why is there no change in the opinion of the greater part?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u59	In a minute. Yes, Mr. Honorable President, I've been talking a lot about this exact equation of distribution costs over the years, and we were together on committees, me and a distinguished vice president of a legal committee, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, in which we were discussing, including the U.S.A. This situation in which we may have to reason up here and have talked about so much, is exactly this list increase that is likely to occur when we are always paying more money to try to level it, would like to get started, which, of course, is something that we need to try to avoid doing this. Like what? A senator quotes the answer we received now, as if it were not a large amount of money that would have to be added to offset the situation, and it is the minister's examination. That's a rule change. I'm sure it doesn't need the song change at the Council, because at least I don't think what I understood, so that's where the Minister can really respond, and I think there's something that has to be done because otherwise it's just a dolphin running. We add more money and, in turn, raise the fee so that it will never get close to this equation. That'll give you an counter-respect ten.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u60	A respectable president. I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Fundament Committee for her speech here. I am now one of those who are just a member of the council, and as a result, a rookie member of the budget is serving as an officer, because once we've been such a fairly conscientious member of the Committee and tried to help me understand and figure out what all of this is all about. I've been having a hard time handling this special assignment, which is called a budget for 5 years, and often difficult to understand how money is just set aside, and now I just felt better when I saw that one of the colleagues who was a lot of them didn't think they could read out of the budget budget, what their share would be in this financial program, that they couldn't see what they were getting to do, that this assignment they were doing. So then you hear about it. They're posting subsidies on valuables and cars and reimbursement because of film production, and you don't see the numbers up in a way that makes it seem like there's an inexpensive source of drawers or storage funds that can be made out of when the counselies seem to like. But I'm curious, and I'd like to ask. A senator's failure: Is there no other way to do this? It is now spoken of as a new action that investments can be cut down, money so many investments, which simply lie in a drawer. Then why not? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u61	Yes, Madam President, thank you. A senator resists. Yes, as I've said and we've been talking on the committee, and I think we all agree on that. We continue to argue with it, and it was fine that the Ministry of finance, which has come to us now several times, that we have, I think, or at least all our opinions, or at least the belief that we are very unhappy with this, how this should appear to us, and that it should not be that the paper on the part of the State is entirely incomprehensible or incomprehensible or at least incomprehensible. The complex fact that it takes experts to read it, and some may not, just understand it. It's not good, and I think we can work with them both on how we'd like to see it as I have before and that they're also here to join us on this project. But sometimes it is said that some sails, or ships, can be turned, and this has so slowly and progressively done in this process through the public financial law that slowly and slowly we may be moving in some way. But I think it's time for us to revise this exact form in terms of this, that we, like, what to say, make it simpler. First, it needs to be simpler. It doesn't have to be that complicated, just as the budget is repeated, the book could be twice as thin, maybe I do. I think it's at least... So we can come together for it, and I can get together just like a dog. A senator knows that, that he works in a rural government, and you're making a five-year plan, and it's not complicated. Truly, I do not intend to claim that one community can be compared to the State. But, yes, there are certain people who may be able to read something out of it. We learn only as much as we do so. But you're absolutely right. This is not good and should not be, so we need some kind of human being with us in order to try to solve them, giving an answer to the second one. Hv. paritaprevir Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u62	One minute. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That is now the case. It's all about income and expenses. It is not in itself complicated, more complex. But somehow you feel that it is being hidden in some form of verb that is difficult to understand. But I'd like to mention, because there is talk that certain things cannot be made up, despite being told by the secretary of finance. I'd like to mention that in one report we received from BHM, there are suggestions for raising income or increase in the income of a government fund. spoke of an increase in capital gain tax. It is said of the reimbursement of the specific support of the letters in which companies are simply required to reimburse a company that produces significant profits, a permanent reduction in bank taxes, and then something called whaler taxes. This has been done by some ministers; this has never been an option to increase the income of a government fund in this way rather than build a course of crowns and booze in the free sea, the answer to the second of its moments is still the case. A senator made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u63	And it's got to do one minute. Yeah. Madam President. It is true that many have used taxation in various ways and our noses, e.g. that in the poll, as I told you earlier, we think that it needs to look to, for example. Good job with the factory. We call to mind that there was reason to look at the coming charges. This is something that we all feel is a reason to look into, especially in the light of the current situation and, above all, that the record in these articles is quite large. In any case, it may have been a good idea to consider something further, but certain income tax strains are certainly suggested that they not just raise their booze at Leifs station by $150 or so. There is more to it than that, and let's see if it will bring us anything. But I myself, I don't weigh anything and I hear from the Committee, none of the major components are absolutely not against being examined in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A body member, Herjólfur Guðmundur for her story. I'm not on the budget, I'm solving it. Yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson, but I've been going through this for a while. However, I find a simple explanation that I would like to ask the Honorable Director of the budgetary Committee that it is in the staff of 25 nurses and rehabilitation services. I can't understand how this team is going to turn down the next few years, and I can't even get close to it in what it is today after four years, according to this, 72 billion today, to 70, and something else I want to know about, and it's about two, seven, disability and the affairs of disabled people. It speaks of ducks. The simplicity of the system and a plan for a simple system and an incentive for increased employment said to try as if it were not expected to be at any cost at the recovery, in the social security system, and to be expected at all this year, perhaps next year. It's like it's not. I'm assuming the review will be carried out in advance. I don't know when it's like there's a lot of uncertainty. Then I'd like to ask: A few weeks ago, at the General Assembly, a 3% increase in social security pensions was adopted to help control the impact of inflation. So I ask a respected chairman of a budget board: Will the next year's social security upgrades be updated compared to the amount of social security bills added to the other? They're standing today, or they're going to be a little bit of money on public insurance as they were at the beginning of the year, look Sigfús at the price of this year's inflation probably 7.5%. Therefore, it is important to consider whether up the amount of social security money, an increase of 4.5% or 7.5% in the years to come. That's when the counter-respect responds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u65	Yes, Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Regarding the 25 - nursing and rehab class. The decrease may well be because, as we know and, fortunately, the number of people in disability has decreased, but we would have increased in rehabilitation services. It's going to be a success, and I think it's now such a major change in it since, of course, it's in business again: No, investments. Then we know. I'm sorry. Then we will not have as well, nor will we be able to work at what we are building or using as it has slowed down. About the percentages we had. A senator asks what the basis will be for next year, so I'm just gonna admit it right here and now I'm not thinking about it. I thought it would be normal for you to have a 3% rise, and then, of course, take into account the foundation. He adds, so I'm not going to say that this is just an excellent reminder, and I'll just take it with me and hopefully have an answer for why. A senator in that context soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u66	As a senator, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. Thank you. Björk Guðjónsdóttir hope that the counter will be cleared up, too, with these currencies, nurses, and rehabilitations, because there is now a rift, for example. physical therapist. There's a lot of money in there, and, of course, it's very bloody that people are paying 1500 bucks. which may go up for every single time, and I know people can't afford it. It's amazing things that seem to somehow have died without causing damage, and I ask myself there: Lions don't disappear. It'll only get worse as we go ahead. It's something we have to take, and it's also about that. Of course, it is of utmost importance, especially now in these difficult conditions, which have been due to the population of gas explosions, all kinds of things, that people in social security are now really getting the right to rise, not even one more trip. The answer will be the second. Hv. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u67	Yes, Madam President, I am saying that the lack of contracts with physical therapists and others under whom there is still an issue and therefore people are paying according to a much higher charge. It's just that everybody's bad, I think, except maybe everyone, the most wealthy people, if they need such a service, so it's like nothing else you can do than just sharpen both parties to look for ways to negotiate, because, of course, this is a deal, and it's probably gonna have to give something. They make certain demands. A certain amount is being placed as we know it. That's how many hours, etc. Should be negotiated. But it is as if we have heard during the discussion that negotiations are not just possible without setting some guidelines. That's where health insurance has been done. But I'm saying it's really important, because it's the group that really needs training. There are micro-ists and people in rehab, so I'll agree with it, and I'll reiterate it and send a message out to the vote for health insurance to try to negotiate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u68	Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. President. I'd like to start by asking my committee party what the hell is a financial program. I think it's a very important question, especially with this expression, because what the financial plan is not what we get, so what is it? Why is there such a difference between what is said in the law that there is a difference between financial planning and what we receive from the government? What if there's a difference? What do you mean? Who? Why? From where? Where did it come from with a comfortable mind or not? The laws in the budget were applied to things such as, for example, things. that the Government plan is submitted to the General Assembly and includes analysis of the economic situation, further fragmentation of financial policy targets, and discussion of how policy targets will be achieved. Most of this, except for this last point, which is there in the document, which is to be discussed on economic development during the past three years, which is much less coverage than has been done. It's been out of control. There is no comparison of columns on such fun, I think, because it was found that the number of past figures changed in wonder how it can happen that the proportion of public investments e.g. It suddenly became much more or much less with a discussion about it right here in the plan, it belongs to violence. This should be a goal for survival and economy for the next five years. It involves the development of taxes and income, the development of pay and income, and so on. Overall, it is. Just so in English, it's somehow this way that the government should tell us how much money they're gonna take or pay, how much they're gonna build or how much money to make. The government needs to explain to us how they are going to make everything happen to schools and anything we want governments to do. It is not enough that governments tell us how their solution is to run schools, build roads, perform social services and welfare services, how they work in these areas is the best solution. The reason for explaining the exact financial plan is that the government's handling of the council, just not explaining how the situation works. I don't understand how the government's entire economic policy, as it is stated here, comes to be okay after five years of wrestling with the underlying palace and stuff like that. There are so many things here, which are very inaccurate. I do a little research on national ideals and show the difference in how national forecasts develop between years of age to predict, for example. about 223 C.E., which has appeared in a national forecast of 2019, 20, 21, 22 in financial programs and the figures there are all over and over again, which may be quite normal, for, of course, national forecasts are inaccurate, since the world is constantly changing but although it is inaccurate, it does not mean that it is useless. That would be, for example. It is useless to create a financial plan for the next year by means of the stars wisdom secretary of finance or by throwing chicken, for example, bones on the skin. Even if predictions for the future are inaccurate, we still want to make plans based on them to plan something else that would be worse, if not for some sort of good luck. Of course, it does matter how we make such plans, and the question may be, How was this financial plan developed, and how is it fun to examine such goals and standards? If we're going to plan on data, it often sounds so difficult, somehow so very uncertain. We're bad data or in all kinds of excuses, and as the situation is now, there's really no plans. The budget is, in fact, just a extrapolation to the next year, based on a situation that was formerly at the disposal of the state funds and institutions, etc. in some way last year. Are we just going to do the same in a little account of pay and prices and so forth? That's it. We have a plan today. It's just not the kind of plan to be made under public financial law that made us different, not and isn't a good idea, just usually, because there are so many things I'm going to go over with it a little later. There are isolated cases, suggestions for specific projects in some non-employment field. Is there no connection with financial policy, the criteria to be successful? According to government policy, several cases came up here, e.g. ... ina financialprogram. In 2020, a three - year - long average test of literature was used as a guide for the publishing of a university. That was the situation in 2018, 2300 credos. and to complete 3,125 in 2004 in the financial program that we will consider in this case are published articles. The number of articles published in 2021 is 1460. Maybe some Kuwait years or something like that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Good day. That's a long time ago. These are, in fact, 700 articles fewer than 2018. What happened? What, then, did so many other things happen here? It is the proportion of students who complete their mine three years. The 2018 situation was 66.6% or 2017. The 2001 situation is 28%, 28% more than half the fall on it. These are not high school students whose high school was shortened. It's in the high school. I don't understand the 2004 and 70% percentages of students he was going to complete over three years, the criteria 20277/20355%, exactly less. It's really amazing, and then there's my favorite part. It is designed to promote sustainable development and by reviewing straggility ratios and reference criteria are that progress rates do not decline and only understand the progress rate. Then there is really a number of people who are living on the move either have only a couple of children, and people who are no longer in their working years, and the ratio is, in fact, those people who are in the future divided by the number of working years when the budget is 2020, if examined there are several interesting numbers, the capital area with a 50% staging ratio, 50%, interesting children and older people, half the proportion is the proportion of the people working year. No, in 2003's financial program, the situation is at once 63.4% what happened in three years in order to increase or decrease the number of people in the future or number of working years so extreme is no explanation except that the figures in the budget 2020 are probably wrong to run only here in a table and a small calculation based on the Habitat counts, so we're wrestling with the wrong numbers, despite the fact that these are just the numbers of the Haguebies that are under there and that there's nothing very difficult to calculate, maybe take a little time. The problem there, for example. Using this standard, however, as some of the goal of promoting sustainable development is that we have a nation's aging in our hands. We know it's about to happen. We know that we have an average young nation, and we know that people from generation to generation are getting even. Inevitably, progress ratios decrease that the correct level is increased, as the goal is that the ratios do not rise, but the unmoved rate is inevitable. In fact, there are only three ways to prevent that from happening. That's what they call Langanes Beach, policy. If people have seen that movie, it's simply that people have to live up to a certain age. Clearly, it was never about to happen that the policy will be adopted. Other Missions No. 2 is that people just start to do riots, museums, rooms like exercise, more than the natural ones, raise children, or increase children who never for a short time, nor 20 years, will improve. But it has to be maintained, and there will be an insurmountable population growth in the future because we are always needing a larger and larger generation for the next generation to succeed in the implementation of previous generations. Another is to set up an immigrant policy for people of working age, which is really just an entry between countries, but it could work in some way where there may really be unemployment or something similar. But, really, none of these options are a promising opportunity for sustainability. We have to face the fact that growth ratios in natural balance are not really dealing with where there are no underlying population growths in Ecuador, people, decrease in number. Actually, there are just a steady number of people on earth who are going to be left alone for so many years. We have to have the welfare and financial systems of the government that this support system of ours will be compared to the reality, not that in order to maintain the systems that we need constant population growth, they just don't work out, and they are completely missing this vision in how all these rotten things work for us. So the answer to the question, How do we plan? Is it quite simple that the polite version of this is that plans are not based on data or are linked to government policy in any way? But how should we make plans? Then I am more appropriate to ask, in view of the situation in which these and previous financial programmes have come from the government. If so, ask yourself: " Is this really a waste of time, as is today's financial program? The tragedy of the fact that there are a lot of people in the administrations who spend time on this project without any benefit actually being drawn to Mary's next body. Of course, we would insist. The minimum will be the time we spend on this that there will be some real benefit. However, the law on public financial matters is very clear as to what financial plans should be covered, and strict measures are being taken to fulfill most of the ways. Section 5. There would be a law on public financial matters. The financial agenda is based on financial policy, and financial programmes deal with economic developments. There are reports of growth and economy as well as in general, progress in paying and earnings, and things that check the box listed in the law, but the material elements are far from lacking. Advisorys specifically covered this point in Uppsala, their phones for a financial committee. What was a great need for a baseline law on public finances to be carried out, especially in the transparency, or as the financial adviser puts it? By the permission of a president: A financial agency believes that the base of the budget, the format of policy and plans has not worked properly or at the time of the law on public finances. It's just polite, very polite, from my experience with people like that who are doing very professional work. Then it's a really heavy map when you read between the lines of the recipe and how we're supposed to do it. There are plans in the civil law, but that is simply not a recipe for which we can ask, and why do we not get answers when we ask? However, there are a few things that might be made clearer, especially with regard to financial authority, such a framework of legal action on government policy. Economic, financial, and financial matters should be better recognized by legal projects and government policies. This is really important. The review of the committee points out that governments should, of course, not follow the pace of these automatic fluctuations. When that is the case, government income, expenses, decreases, less unemployment, and so forth. At this time, it can be set aside for a wide range of years, and when it is down, there is an increase in expenses and income loss, in the same way, the balance remains for a longer time and the average of the two. When that is the balance of such a major economic question, what is the average and how to adjust the income and expenses of the state's funds to maintain that balance, and that is the realm of politics and is mainly reflected in governmental legal projects, which is the largest currency in and by inquiry here, a good list of students, 109 inquiries to all institutions and advice on their exact legal and collective tasks. The answer, in effect, was asked: What is legal? What is your legal assignment, and what will be the cost of each project? They just had no idea, not the slightest idea what each project cost, which is just very reprehensible. How should we know if we are funding our various laws here at the General Assembly if the government does not even know how much it costs? If I do that now, the bill here before the Council will always be dealt with the evaluation of the effects on the state funds, the costs of bringing in the other and these laws or legal adjustments. Of course, it should exist only for the legal groups as they enter every institution into the Ministry because it is the largest paid team involved in just these legal projects that people in this council have been given over the years. Each year, we need to evaluate how we will finance this project without knowing how much it costs. Can't we? We can't just say it's like last year, plus change in prices and pay development and stuff like that. This is not possible if we are going to try to do better each year. It's really important. There comes government policy - a government policy that is actually affecting legal projects, as it is said to account for the changes in their influence. It is important to bring a change in the nursing home, so that they somehow weigh less money for the public, but it may be more expensive somewhere else because there may be more services or so an analysis must be in all context of me. We need to do something really dramatic with regard to budgeting and financial programmes to make this available, both to members of the council who are trying to understand what it's like to do the work that we've given by law, e.g. Just recently taken up some recent experiences here in the hearing of the head of the budget board on the NPA deal. There are only so many other things we don't know about subsidies in the medical system, but there are many other things we don't know there. I'm only going over who's the government's policy. I try to reduce the financial agenda all of which are just financial expenses. There's a lot of things that are really just what was already in the last term, and then it's somehow starting to show off again. In 2003, the temporary donations that were previously made are the ones that are running their course, the 100 choices that were made. I don't know why it was all about anything, especially the financial program. This is not part of government policy. Government policy needs to explain the major challenges we face and how governments are going to address them. How is it going to make things better and just at least one of the best examples I think is what must be considered on climate issues, asked about it right here in the open - ups of the 2030s before the Treaty is spoken of as setting an independent national goal of 55% reduction in emissions of Iceland's direct responsibility for 2030 compared to 2005. But then there are three other, three other sentences in a financial program that is confused in one way or another. It is also said by Presidential permission that Iceland is involved in the EU aims to provide exactly a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. In 2005, governments with their goal of losing 55% compared to 2005 are also saying that they're going to be involved in some of the goals of a fallout of 55% compared to 1990. Another factor is how the previous target was 40% that fell to Iceland on 29% of the common objective of the European Union and Norway. It is being reassigned to 55% and emissions are falling outside the commercial system, but it is not said to establish the target for bone. Iceland's responsibility will be within the new 55% total share of total power, and it will not matter how much Iceland's share will be in 50. Iceland has set its own goals, which are then discussed again. Then it's what falls out of the system, but you don't know if it's about the agreement with the EU and Norway where the share of Iceland is less than 55% it was. It was 40% in common with the other countries of Iceland within the 29%. We had a date, we have a plan on how to get it. It's not quite clear whether we're going to achieve it just 29% will recently have been raised to 55% and does not need to alter any of the measures needed to achieve this extra 15%, let alone 29% to 55%. Nothing. There's nothing in a financial program about how much it costs. It is truly remarkable to see these misleading dates and numbers in the financial program of the government itself. They're the ones who are setting these goals. It is up to them, but they cannot even set out in one way that is understandable to their readers. Well, I'd like to see if the funds committed by the General Assembly are actually capable of agreeing with the legal authority for the execution of the laws and policies of the government at any time. These changes must be made from the present system of things. Law change is not to be needed but should be carried out only by law that is in force. The categories discussed are not part of the public financial law except in an indirect way. Then the switch to the legal projects and/or these legal projects is done. A healthy government policy is something to be done under law on government policy. But since the current financial minister is such an attempt to set up goals and standards for such government policies, it has failed completely because it has set up some random standards for each case, such as the staging ratio. Then there is a government policy that deals with something else, and somehow it tries to squeeze these two together, without any correlation between what governments are going to do and fresh, each measurement of the criteria within the language field. It's just not working, it's not feeding, it's not successful, so, in my opinion, a much better distinction is made between government policy coverage. It's just a key, and there's no really a big chapter, because financial funds that governments have for special government policy are really small. However, there is a much clearer explanation of how they function, and then there is a law on legal projects that should be holistically covered by a financial bill, but not necessarily during a financial programme, as an consideration of government policy and its impact on e.g. state of law-oriented projects are part of a financial program. If so, do you have one of those? You always know who spells legal projects. Based on each year's budget, you are discussing the state or policy of the government in a financial program that makes financial planning much less important and how it will influence the level of the law - frame as it is a legal project in short terms. They just have a lot to do with government financial laws. Some of the things that the law on public finances is about missing directly, and others are inaccurate. It should be on the way that governments explain the long - term economic balance and how income and expenditure maintain this balance in terms of legal projects and government policy here should be aimed at long - term economic growth instead of following the economy's short - term perspective for the next year as national forecasts usually indicate. Then there will be a set of standards for all legal government projects. They need to follow evaluations of their status and current costs, and they must adhere to official financial laws. With government policy. Government policies explain how governments influence the situation of individuals, larger and smaller, e.g. how governments are going to affect the situation of housing markets, public investments, services to disabled people, and so on. So the big question is, how do we pay for all these legal projects? The answer is taxes, and according to someone, the best way to teach children what taxes are eating is half on their ice. It also explains why taxes have often been the cause of civil wars, but at the same time, taxes are needed to carry out community projects, the work to do. People have different opinions, but we should learn, but we should learn something from history. Then there's nothing wrong with eating yes, what assignments are sometimes to be, but if we're to learn more from history than not to eat just half of the exaggeration of children, it's a good idea that the State has special assignments in behalf of all such as that. Judgment of the courts. That's one of the things everybody's fairly agreed on other tax queens. This election period is very strange, as my last opinion of the government's financial policy was found. It is the only necessary change in government policy in terms of changing taxation of the car system, the changes needed to finance the development and maintenance of the transport system through taxation of the car that has been mainly done or the oil costs are due to energy exchange in transport, but there is no other tax policy to be strange, especially under the circumstances of the underlying government's business. It's in the middle of nowhere, which means we're either going to have to increase our income or cut down business, but according to the government's government contract, we're going to expand our service and reduce our taxes. Clearly, it's empty word, doesn't make sense. And now that the inflation is suddenly on the move, the government will intervene with new emphasis on tax issues. The government's release is even. to increase in centenarian costs assessed by 2.0.2% increase in in inflation, where they could respond to rising inflation. By action that increases in inflation. The price for drinking at the airport supports income - control homes is set there, but it has already been raised after showing off some of the items that are once again, which have been done highly classical, and then the government is claiming to be reducing investments that are only really correction. This is a budget which has not been managed to invest, so this is no minus what would have been minus, and it has to be said that it is 27 billion actions next year when they would have automatically done anything if the government hadn't done anything at least 10 billion, just because of the investments. I'm often criticized for doing relatively little about politics and more than form, but I don't care that criticism of the form matters, especially when it's not being against criticism e I criticize the government for sophisticated economic policies and irrefutable planning. The financial strategy we deal with here is at best economic and irresponsible. There is no shortage of how to meet the greatest challenges in the Icelandic community, housing problems, health systems, the future of the education system, common resources, climate, social security, and financial programs, such as loosely discussing some of these challenges, but nowhere in this general and convincing way from the council and the nation's viewpoint that it is understandable how these challenges will be handled in the next few years. This is a key element that the government can explain to us what is happening. Why are they dealing with your own problems? Why, then, do we usually have problems? How would they improve? Don't just say, "We're moving here and there." We are really going to build these 4,000 apartments a year, which is needed to balance the housing market. It was only written very clearly and clearly when the challenge is so simple that they are completely lacking, so please make winter. That'll give you an answer. Honored.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u69	But, Madam President, I would like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a thorough and good speech. I'd like to do this as a new financial committee, and now I know what to do. A senator has been there ever since the last term, and here and there also claims to be very short, but here, and has been very clever to work with. A senator on a budget board and also to get another party, if you can put it that way, during the discussion, and be interesting to us who are taking our first steps on the budget to hear how people visualize things, and then they may not always see things the same way, so I would like to wonder at it. A senator with this financial policy, which then the financial programme takes into account, or vice versa, that whether this approach we're considering right now is this financial strategy until 2027, whether it's not as far as it is, as one can say, in line with the man's policy. We are considering and coming from both governments, that we need only moderation, and only a step and a home after what has happened, so I would like to have a vision. It's for a senator. With the policy and financial programmes, the counter will answer. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u70	That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson? President. Yeah, that's a very good question. I did a little about it in my committee party exactly what financial policy should do. It is to be considered, in fact, the national scale of their development, just like that, in general, in terms of economic growth and so forth, but also in view of such government programs for e.g. Public investments and a variety of such things. It is a foundation for national interest, such as the one there. Then there's government policy on finance policy. How should these national interests be affected? They are completely missing, so I really don't know what the policy is, to achieve some kind of economic stability because it's not about it, it's about the proportion of GDP and that in the big numbers, if this works, it's within the other and those targets. There is no discussion, however, of possible changes in both income and expenditures to penetrate the frame within their targets. It is growing extra revenues to improve the maintenance, just as spending may be reduced in order to be better maintained when some are, so there is no coverage of where e.g. The collection of income is in a healthy way for economic error, and as a result, it is not discussed in the financial program how to bring it back to maintaining economic balance to 5 years of age. Yeah, that's when we're talking. It's not complicated, but it's not explained. As a result, I cannot, of course, explain it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u71	The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I missed it, and I'm not surprised when it happened. One senator says: "Well, I can explain it because it's not here, and that may be part of what we're discussing in these programs. At any rate, it seemed to me to watch from my viewpoint that we have a large plan that we're looking ahead and the messages to ourselves and to all of us, that we need to start taking care of our expenses. Then we have our income on the other side, and we had to predict our income. They're such predictions to terms like that, and they regularly predict. But it seems to be in this context when we've had some dips, as we were going through the epidemic and the like, when we straightened out the cow. Then it looks like we're in a hurry. The forecasts have been analyzed and, in this context, they are like those that are about to grow. We then appear to be there in some percent over a projection made six months ago, so we are dealing with a plan that we look ahead of us. The answer may be, Is that a question I would like to ask? Senator. Is it, perhaps, that we have a plan, and if it is almost unrealistic to try to make plans more accurate to each subject when we even find it very difficult to predict what future income will be? Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u72	No, Mr. President, that's a good question again. Checked our arrival here again from Secretary of finance. The chairman of the financial Council mentioned just how it was weird to aim for national interests, national interest statistics as if they were swinging next year. And then, in some long term interest, there were always only 2.5%, after five or five years or something like that. In fact, it would be unnatural to try to take the economics as they are next year, whether they are low or high, and to use them as the basis for financial planning or yes in the financial program that it should only be used on average, in fact, just using the long - term economy, and when we do, we may get this analysis that has been repeatedly complained on the basis of a lack of effort, that we will see for a longer time whether it is a balance of the government business. At present analysis, we are told that it's not that we're in the minus. This is relatively short of argument, but it has not been answered in particular by governments that I find very interesting, and this context really is far more important than the total cost and income of the state that we have since the political exchange, which is said to be a cause of suffering. That's where I come in, which says what I was pointing out, that we need to know what the cost is on a legal basis in each subject field, because that's where the foundation is. There we know the number, what the number is. Yes, yes, it flutters back and forth compared to the price-exploiting projections, etc. But we know where the ground is. If we know this, we can talk about government policy in a far more beneficial and political way. The answers are complete, saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u73	Kristín Traustadóttir. A respectable president. I'm going to go out to a large audience in my committee party, where the time frame is narrow, but the financial program involved is the first financial plan of a new government. The purpose of such programs is to explain exactly how to carry out and finance the promises of the government, as they appear in a government covenant. However, the declarations of government leaders seem to have been washed up in actual implementation, as it is clear from the reading of the plans that political policy has taken place in the Ministry of finance. Reading the lid follows a certain emptiness when it becomes clear that the country is on a kind of autopilot, although with important and in some cases frightening exceptions to those of us who believe that the role of the State is to promote solidarity in our society, made the impression that we are all in this together. Systemic growth accounts for all changes in this financial program. The government doesn't even trust it to implement the maintenance measures during the period. In some respects, this is not surprising, for many believe that the government is a solution rather than a stability. The country of Iceland is facing a large and altered world scene, the aftereffects of a pandemic. The biggest inflation for 12 years. A break in housing market for Europe, and the government presents a financial strategy that involves simple extrapolation. They seem to be living in realities other than reality, but more of the nation, at least There is so limited that they cannot even enforce their own ideas on how to improve the community to which they are to take the lead. A respectable president. The government announced a review of important aspects of the government's welfare system. It showed that the recovery of pensioners and especially those who were disappointed would be improved. Furthermore, the matter of microenergy pensioners was largely reviewed during the election season and is especially considered to improve the survival of these groups. However, none of these things will be done if a financial plan is established. There are no sources for such things here, and all talk that the changes will not only improve the interest of people but also improve the economy, and that's why we don't need money, just not support in the real world. Granted, there may be an increased level of activity and change, a better rehabilitation method may reduce disability and increase access to health care as well as an undefined management over a period of five years. We need to recognize as a community the wasting of infrastructure, both materially and irreprehensible over the past decade, has resulted in the formation of a large pool of debts. The Icelandic state is in the middle of a station where it will not get out without its own help. We need to unite in getting out of this bad balance. A respectable president. Unity and harmony among the nations profit little from political cooperation if this cooperation breeds political decisions as disintegrating people rather than appeal to socialism, real leadership at a time like this involves a claim to people's welfare if we stick together to reset our welfare systems. There we come, a respectable president, who is involved in our politics, the political affairs that governments for the past decade have practiced, and the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir lives. Basically, the courage to make real decisions is lacking to strengthen our welfare system with long - term vision. A limited desire is to recognize that shortly such actions will cost us more than the savings we need. More important, we have stopped talking about the purpose of all of this. We've stopped talking about what the public figure is. A respectable president. The objective of the government should not be to balance the terms of the government's budget, as it is heard so far across the governments. The objective of the government is to be in the service of the inhabitants of the country and to protect the community how we will achieve the objective in a sustainable way that contributes to economic equilibrium in terms of taxes. The reason for the welfare of the last century was primarily a question of solidarity about what we owe one another as citizens in this society. In the latter century, the debate over the extent and status of the welfare state has been focused on the extent to which those who live in want or difficulties in daily life and who are responsible for their position, the extent to which their circumstances are self - formed, and the scope of public assistance should be to them. In Iceland this is to develop in the trend where child - rearing benefits have become different from what is known in the Northern countries, where everyone is paid with each child but not with the child. Here is the idea of strengthening the feeling that society is coming to the aid of what is sometimes said. An entire village is needed to raise a child. The tax returns take into account the different financial status of people, and this contributes to an even greater recovery, not by isolation of persons from government donations if the person is exacting hair but by creating an active link to the welfare state. A respectable president. In the years and decades, we Icelanders will be trapped in a straitjacket of systematic growth and will lose control of government expenses if there is no change in government, and more serious that this discouragement is designed to undermine public belief in the worth and value of the welfare of society because people stop paying in the common fund if they experience the services they receive instead inadequate. It forgets what the government's existence is based on a link to the welfare community and a violation of social security. This is a serious matter. The lack of confidence in our welfare system and our insurance policy is even further increased when they are faced with the government's insurmountable debate that real reforms have taken place in our welfare system or are in our water, despite the fact that financial plans reveal little about whites. This government is by no means heading for a new, better balance. This movement in which false well - beings are sailed is extremely dangerous. It detracts the faith of the people in the country from the capacity of society to provide what is important to the basic services that ensure the people's needs. The late loss of faith and salvation rather than the formation of defects in the community have been replaced by other compelling reasons why the government is bound here, however, has not been a complete failure in the actions of the State. In the past decade, evolution has been highly political, and this has not been a result of indifference. Huge actions have been employed that have undermined the capacity of the state's funds to play a fundamental role in society. The table of state funds is a broken, respectable president. The next year's spending development is not a reason why a systematic tail is on the terms of the terms of the terms of the term will be over. Rather, we collect debts because of the tens of thousands of millions of dollars of money each year that have been taken over the past decade. This has been done by tax declines, by reducing the rate of specific tax reductions without considering other measures, the income side to strengthen the income support. The labor movement has pointed out this for years, but now even financial advisers pay special attention to this situation in their latest financial review. The reason for this, a respected president, is that in many areas the financial needs of society are not a common case of government funds but a high - political position to weaken the government's ability to provide basic services. A respectable president. Like financial advisers, in their review of a financial program, the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has removed 41.6 billion dollars. of the government's income with taxes in the past few years. Changes are in the form of public tax doctors, tax reforms, reductions in insurance fees, increases in genetic tax revenues, changes in capital income taxes, and decrease in bank tax. All changes are in the same direction. They reduce the income base of a government fund and thus the ability of the welfare system to live up to basic services bear in mind that 42 billion dollars. half of the money flows to the hospital every year. It is a priorities that unsettled people. A respectable president. This is the political bitch who overpowers all other policies of this government. As a result of the high priority in the state's budget, under the end of a financial program, the lowest in this century was to be a percentage of national production, with a detailed financial recommendation over this in its strategy review. A financial body points out that the income for a Kingdom will be similar at the same time as in 2001, although in the 20 years since then, with the permission of a president: The ten - to - 13% increase the share of the elderly in crowds. At that time, society has changed, with other social requirements and guidelines. As a result, changing the population's composition is likely to require more revenue on you than at present. Quotation complete. There is no financial program on the actions presented in a government contract to make a revised tax, assessment rules, preventing abnormal unhealthy motivations to institutions of a private society, as financial advice puts it in its review. The Treaty described the need for a review of regulations, a move to make sure that those who had only money earn earn themselves earn money and who paid an answer. No, a respectable president. These changes to shut down taxes in our tax system are not even possible to take on income. The UN has previously mentioned that the tax system is improved in connection with the use of private credit partners in order to recalculate funding instead of remuneration, resulting in a publicization of three to 8 billion dollars. every year. The Icelandic community agrees with this. Then it came to the Commission's budget that nowhere in the world can be recognized as the country's customary arrangement that individuals are actually free to determine how much of the revenues registered through private societies were financed and how much of the pay paid funds the World Bank had made a comment to the work-in-the-house but in many areas, the decision was fixed on the financial resources of the body and it reflected capital gains. The rest of the company's income would be automatic. It is totally incomprehensible that the government has not undergone changes in this system, which results in the public, to the most part, to the most part of rural society, from billions of dollars to income each year. You see from the above, it is obvious that the wealth of the state is inexpensive. This is an undisputed, respectable president. In spite of a significant expenditure during the financial programme period, there is still a systematic limp on the state funds. This is a major concern, especially in view of the fact that there is no possibility that the limited budget is being met in a financial budget. The European Union of Iceland and BSRB have pointed to unrealisticity, which involves spending less than 1% per year on a controlled budget, which agrees with the financial advice given in its comments. The financial Council then points out that while the actual growth of the primary budget should be less than 1% annually, with an average actual actual rate of 1.3% of the framed budgets in the policy period, and thus trust is that growth of budgets outside the framework would be more important in maintaining total interest in total than straddling expenses. Achievement development, a respectable president. Is one of these teams outside the box and realize that the extracurricular delinquency in the country and in the labor movement by diluting the welfare system is not designed to reduce pay requirements during the financial period. This is different from what is seen in the North countries, where government, labor movements, and professional drivers are viewed as fundamental to the welfare of a community. This frame is completely unrealistic in this environment created here. It remains that expenses that are not legal, such as investments, which are often the first option and experience in recent decades. This is a concern in view of the fact that an investment level in this country is still too low. A respectable president. As a financial adviser correctly points out, it is hardly possible to argue that the level of investment is particularly high in historical context, despite the fact that the so - called investment campaign has taken place here during the past few years. In addition, it seems that the campaign itself is due to a straitjacket created by the government by weakening the state's income status during the election season. Observed e.g. in discussing the matter of the Committee to increase the cost of government funds investments, including As a result of international development, projects that have been approved in the transport program will be delayed, funding is simply not available to meet this situation. Stability of validation was obtained, a respectable president, in the administration and priorities of the government when financial reforms were made quickly, using the investment level as the remainder size, cutting down donations for investments of about 10 billion dollars. the next year, in line with the original plan, which despite a clear discussion of financial advice that investment should not be used as an economic tool. Even more serious developments can be seen considering the investment level of rural society. A respectable president. It is headed for a historical low investment. If you examine the share of investments. This trend and its seriousness are especially highlighted by financial advisers. The development of an investment in rural society does not result in voids. A respectable president. The cutback point has come from a country to a rural community and includes the fact that projects have been moved to a rural society without adequate financial support being followed. This has greatly reduced the leeway of most rural partners to maintain investment levels. The results of a work group report on the analysis of the cost of clothing development, disabled persons in 2018-2020, show that the reporting rate at the seminary is about 17 billion. That 17 billion francs. which rural society has had to pay to stop to the underdevelopment, so government funds could cut down directly on investment allowances, similar to that amount for annual investments at the country level all when investments were at least the years after failure and compared to the area of the rural areas of last year's rural society are over 17 billion. So about 40% of the amount in investments is large. A respectable president. In this context, the remaining 17 billion missing in the financing of disabled persons are in value of the tax discounts the government has provided for the construction sector during the past few years, despite the high levels of the industry. A respectable president. Due to lack of time, I'm going to point out my opinion on the committee, but at a discussion on a single subject, here, briefly reviews the health and housing situation. The high attendance of health - care proclaimers in a government contract is not included in this financial program. The plan shows black in white that the word has little to say. Economic and health secretary not to rest on funding for the hospital to solve the health problems. In a financial program, an average of 1.5% of annual interest is expected in a case of hospital service until the end of 2027, although it is known that this is far below essential physical growth. The hospital has spoken about 2.5%, and it is known that a simple extrapolation related to aging, population growth, and nursing should be translated into the Senate by 2.5% increase per year by a quarter of dignity, a more dignified president, that the hospital will be used in aging services. Nowhere is there a normal area of it in a land hospital. These events have been called for a better identification of the tasks. Also, nursing homes have been maligned, and their structure has increased pressure from land hospitals and savings that are nearing the need to avoid building room and to continue using space at the hospital will not bring more money to the hospital, as he will always have to receive those who consult them. The fact is, after 223 C.E., there is no financial support for the development of nursing homes, although the underlying health - care problem is known to be a lack of room to be used in hospital care. In view of a recent medical report published by McKinsey, this calls for special attention, a respectable president. It showed that a new Landspians already had a rift in terms of space in the absence of investments for long term care. The report says that there are 240 options for long term care or patients, such as home care, nursing care, and rehabilitation so that the hospital does not explode in the health - care system if it is to engage in such activities in a general course of about one to 2 billion dollars. ... 9 billionU.S.A. Save at a Hospital. Of course, that savings would appear only in time, but it does not exist in a financial program. This adds to the hard - to - understand fact that after 223 C.E., any funds in the nursing building are hardly expected. The hospital is thus unscrupulous to disintegrating the straitjacket and attract employees to a suitable work environment. But these principles are not solved. A respectable president. Increased funding has to go to the hospital. It must be a source of basic management and measures that reduce the external costs of nurses. Such funding is essential to the proper application of the hospital. The management board of the Hospital and the government is eager to propose a serious proposal for the future before the hospital. The fact is, though, that the Landspike is not working on its own but, rather, in a system that has to be functional, and that system has to be financed. A respectable president. I'd like to also get into medical care outside the hospital because financial programs show that there are no more than 2% per year in actual financial support for Iceland's health insurance. Commenting on the case of the Committee, the lack of funding for case number 242, which is said to be expert services and nursing, it will make it a challenge to negotiate with expert physicians on future losses. In this context, I want to draw attention to the analysis of Iceland's Institute for Development of Health Services at the end of 2018 when expert physicians and physical therapists over a year ago announced agreements with Iceland's Medical Insurance. This analysis suggests that due to this agreement, charges collected from the public's pocket to groups of sensitive groups to cover costs received 1.7 billion dollars. In other words, it is very important that the union be negotiated and that there is room for financial management that seems to be too small in relation to the information being received by the committee. In this context, I would also like to mention that the welfare services organization has expressed concern that service agreements made earlier in the winter or spring at a nursing home have not been fully funded in the last or this financial program. A similar basis can be found in nursing and foster care, or about 1.5% of physical development, and this, of course, was my hope in some of the changes in the majority of the Committee to specialized devices. magazine of the reviews of Land Hospital in nursing homes. It is evident that it did not, on the contrary, is in fact, a further cut in these categories that I cannot clearly detect because we were assigned to a prestigious financial committee, were not broken by business and investments, how the canal was divided into these classes. The Ministry of Economics simply failed to inform the committee of how the cuts would be divided. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to discuss housing matters because of the highest. During a discussion of housing matters, a minister made the following comment at the General Assembly of the winter: The Minister here puts a high priority on the construction of social housing throughout the country and has proposed a financial programme for the period 2023◯2027 on a significant increase in financial resources in order to increase the development of apartments by means of public housing. Furthermore, with President's permission, he said: and, yes, we have a vision, we have a plan, and it's becoming clear. A respectable president. That plan has clearly explained, and it is called a financial plan. This program contains 500 billion. K. In addition to meeting the increase in tenets during the period, there is no increased support for the group; however, when these were well - known systematic growths in government plans, otherwise housing is joined together. Strain production to build a general apartment, contracting about 2 billion. V.E.G. The inside minister carried it out after the first appearance of a financial plan, that the proposal for housing was still being made. Would it simply not be time to put a count on this matter, despite declarations of the highest order? A minister would have already put the figures into financial strategy a few weeks ago, however, a respected president, made provision for government housing, which is spoken of as cooperating with rural society, to promote the development of 4,000 inhabitants in the next year, and one third with the direct support of the government, should be used as planning, into the general community. In spite of improving the construction and housing plans at the highest level. The industrial minister quoted as there was no new financial support added to the housing and organizational case for a subsequent financial discussion. The current stock supply for apartment buildings is about 3.7 billion. and the expected amount has not even lived up to 600 apartments that were to be built for that money, but now it is due to double the apartments that will be funded by the State, which contributes to the seminary to 2 billion dollars. instead of adding the same. The government stands for itself. Because inflation is a danger, a respected president, and so the government may move but there seems to be a misunderstanding about how the system really works. The building market is broken and it's on its way to inflation. Contract negotiations are held in the fall, and the government, in effect, holds out empty - handed increases of centenarians, as cutouts in housing. This doesn't look good. A respectable president. The priorities of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter are the reason why the greater part of the Council will in the week agree to a financial program that does not meet health emergency, not financed housing. Building does not create room for change in the ideals of society's most vulnerable groups and on top of the weak welfare services that bind us together as a community. This politics is designed to undermine public belief in the worth and value of the welfare of society because people stop seeing the reason for paying in a common fund or experience that the services they receive in return are inadequate. It forgets what the government believes is the connection with the welfare community's violation of social security. A respectable president. We compare people, we want to activate their cohesive powers across society and to contribute to the success of those who have done well in life because success was not just a product of their own initiative but an environment that enabled them to outdo the results of inborn traits that are not in everyone's blood and, in many cases, at risk of the material success of people, of a respectable president, can certainly be different and of none concern. But success also comes with the responsibility of society, and that responsibility has to be activated across society. We simply need to agree on what we owe each other as citizens in this community. You see, you can do this differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Flosadóttir's speech. There are three things I would like to ask. A senator in. Of course, the senator did not have a chance or a full life over this vast committee opinion and thank me for it. But what I want to ask you is why. A senator is the criticism that appears on page 11 of the report or in the Committee Department 2 on transport and communication issues. It is addressed at the end of this section, with the permission of the president, after criticism that the use of investments in the pursuit of leftover size is now being looked forward to and that the goals available are likely to be met. But what I wanted to come in here and ask why. A senator's point into this in a deeper way than it was possible for him to enter the talk, as follows: Then another smaller part of the subject will draw attention to the government's agreement with the local community in the capital area on the growth of public transport since 2012 that estimated one thousand million people. K. annual donations at a fixed price set out in the state's budget. Cumulative panels on that contract, except for about 1.5 billion dollars. Then, with the permission of the president: The contract is being extended for 12 years and it is important that the State submit their contributions to the project, in the opinion of a smaller section. But I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council was discussed in any way. Now I'm an emissary on the committee, but don't you think there's any way I could put up a meeting, but this particular point? The current situation under this agreement is expected to be settled there and this extension is now up to 12 years of age, which is flaunted here. Is that agreement already made and stuck or is being looked forward to making it, as it were, this extension would be made but not already very interesting if it were. A senator could briefly discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u75	A respectable president. Yes, thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, who is digging a little deeper into the committee's opinion of this matter was discussed only on the grounds of the Commission that it was written in its own time, but it constantly carries the state's wealth and the government that is, in fact, just a budget that set it every year. The situation is that this 1,000 billion, or 1 billion. He hasn't even stood at $1 billion. In addition to the price of the season, it's some 800,900 billion. K. As a result, most of the years have been gathered rapidly. It wasn't my understanding in the committee that it was necessary to settle this. There is no agreement, but it is obvious that when you read a memo from the local Union in the capital area that the local authorities had to place considerable money to meet this, it could be put more into this contract than they planned to do on account of it. I think it's important that these agreements be handled because, of course, it's all for the better of our country that we have active transportation in the capital area, despite the fact that rural society has an important position, this is a small fraction of the cost of rural society taking over, but of course, it's also a big picture of the big work areas that many here use like Land Hospital and find a place in it. For the next 12 years, it is my understanding that this is a discussion that is in progress or has not been completed. That was my understanding of the committee discussion. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u76	Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson. Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There's two more, two more chapters I'd like to enter my second answer. First of all, chapter 31 discusses the matter of housing and organizational matters on page 15. We are all aware of conditions in the new housing market and of the recent developments that have developed there. I have a feeling that I'm more worried about building the effects than I am about what's happening. Senator. But I would like to ask. A senator's opinion of the effects on housing prices in general is based on economic views, and I would like to ask you a problem. A member of the Parliament was asked if something was discussed in the Committee regarding the funding of these groups that the government has been giving in recent years. It is the beginning of a group of food ministers with regard to measures related to the management of farmers and farmers' operating conditions. It's an emergency unit for the Land Hospital. Are these costs due to possible action on these topics? Were these points discussed at the branch committee meetings so that I'm concerned that these groups, without any need to enforce the proposed proposals? So, in the second answer, I'd like to ask him why. A senator developing such economic views as to the loss of weights because I know that there is a special interest in our two things, as well as a point of view in the funding of these groups that the government has been creating now in refuge and wrath of ships, pardoning the answer to a subsequent one. Hv. paritaprevir Kristrún Flosadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u77	A respectable president. Yes, thank you. A senator for appealing to my economic background. Of course, lack of goods can lead to high prices. We need to ask ourselves, " Why is there a shortage? ' Is it because the property has not been assigned or because it is not built - up, possibly buying and selling in the markets, as has been discussed, and was discussed in the context of local government elections, it would certainly have been assigned enough of weights, but it would not have started buildings there. Then you've got new ones, increased economic financial markets, the reality of the housing market, something to be done. Actually, it's just a basic need. Has become such spherical commercial property in the economy, where property is being placed and waiting for for a change to take place there. But the idea is, of course, that you have to work this place together on a housing market between state and rural society, and I think many people have put their hopes in this task force that was set up today and have their suggestions to help with the application. Including was one idea to prevent high stock prices in some places altogether going to the prices, that these weights are assigned to an unfashionable partner who will then be able to get access to under market prices without having to worry that the difference in the market value and the prize they receive is just put in the pocket but goes directly to those who need to make use of the home. But, of course, that's what I don't agree with, that these suggestions are not financed. The proposals to see this in any of the government's suggestions on these measures are not to be proposed. It was not much of a discussion on this subject on a financial committee, and it is actually possible to give a whole talk about all of this. But I'd also like to come into it regardless of the secondary costs of these groups. Who's gonna cost you a government fund? If of these endless groups and of action groups that are to come into existence, now at the last 40 to 650 people in the fishing field to make a decision on a matter that we know is not a unit within the government, just to reach the conclusion or to think that there can be a solution to the political evening of smokyness, the daughter of Mósesdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u78	It's an anti-array. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir keeps up with it. Mr. President. I have to start now by saying that I've got the last answer to an answer because I've been sitting on my first meeting in this 40- load of men this morning, just saying in the middle of nowhere that there was a very good spirit in that group, and there are all very steeped on optimism and most people with some iron of men underneath the tables, and so I think we are supposed to feel the hopes of this great career where it's going to have some result, and this is certainly not supposed to be a new basis. It was like this, but I thought I had to say this because it was all better to come out of the meeting than to come into the meeting. It was that way where people in general just said so they could be said. But I wanted to ask. In his committee article on nursing homes, a senator who was giving his speech, as well as on page 13, asserts that they were abducted and built up, which is more pressure at a land hospital, in my opinion, during the last term it has not been that way. However, as we know and have received information on the budget, the nursing home has been down - to - date, and this may be one of the things we are dealing with, even in general, on the premises. However, this has been observed at the meetings of the financial committees, including the U.S. that, in the first and last cases, we have a design problem, including has not been able to make Landakot, which was specifically signed to relieve the hospital and make up that space. There are some of the cells, not the humans. Truly, we can do better in living with people who work in the sector than I intend to disagree with the fact that our nursing home has been abdicating during the last term and really the rest. This team of researchers complained.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u79	Kristrún, waterfalls, and dignified president, I naturally drew special attention to what was presented in the review of an enterprise's enterprise in welfare service, that new service contracts were not financed. There was an emergency contribution made through the budget, last through a budget board, because it was a collection of such costs, and it also appeared at the meetings and the latest meetings that we had with the Committee and its members, and it also showed that for them to form large teams there are like better shift work, a time coming up at a convention that is far below their actual position, and I would just say, since we are at this site, that it was very heavy in the community of welfare services companies, a radio station that precedes a nursing home for care care problems. Of course, you can hear it in many places, that there's only open space, that none of these men are in it. In this context, however, we need to ask ourselves, " What is it about my business and how I am running donations into these institutions? ' But we have already hundreds of people, to form nurses who are educated to do so and who have been educated public institutions who are unable to see themselves and who are not interested in working in these institutions because of stress. Then we suggest, as with a better shift of hours, which is actually supposed to reduce the pressure of people, but the resources are an understatement which means that the pressure is increasing elsewhere in the system, and we are actually working against the conditions we're going to create for an increased scale of survival into the system, so I believe that this designer present comes from a more favorable source. The operation has been funded, and it has not been willing to take long - term out executives to these classes to draw back these groups into a single space. I just agree with what. In this regard, a senator and a distinguished chairman of the legal committee. A single space will not change anything in the situation. That's people's position, and for a short time, if they're to be offered to the present position, it's the money that really matters. And what's up with the remunerations, at least to start with Jón Sigurðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u80	Whatever it is. paritaprevir Mr. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Mr. Bjarkey Olsen, what I was quoting, is especially what it is. A senator also refers to their structure because it is what I am quoting when I talk about that I do not agree with that approach because I thought we had put a considerable amount of money into it. But as I said, they just didn't get to work, unfortunately, they totally agree that we have to do better in many places. creating work conditions that people want into. However, we have also found that the very goal we were trying to achieve is that it somehow seems that it did not work. It's just that not everybody likes that arrangement. It may well be that there is a trend toward the export and other such, how institutions are simply implementing it rather than having a full - time job, wanting to have a part - time job, and therefore taking some additional job, or just having a 100% job. We know that shifting is a very difficult job, and many are not in it, as well. A senator noted that in many parts of the world, as we have also heard, of the director of the Land Hospital that we have both visited and have come to us at a meeting, that there are other requirements for younger people today and hospitals because I feel uncomfortable just talking about one thing, perhaps having had trouble handling it. But I, since I wanted only to ask, too, because the senator says in his last phrase, in his opinion: The land hospital does not work by itself but in a system that has to work. That's exactly what we agree with, and that's why I was trying to address it before that I feel that somehow we haven't come to what to tell our systems out of these silos that each institution is a bit involved and whether it doesn't agree with me that there's something we have to do, that we have more flow between the institutions, somehow, so that we actually bring people back together better, answers the answer to Sigurðarson's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u81	Answering his second one, who. paritaprevir A Kristrún horse wedding. A respectable president. I thank the Honourable Chairman for his reply. I think we can totally agree on where the end is. We want these systems to work together. What worries me is this struggle, the financing we see all the time. We're talking about taking speeches from the highest level. Government counsels that there will not be financial support at the end of the day. All of this will be paid but before making up the Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, all the medical institutions all over the country. They want to see long-term plans that humans can follow. We get the National Hospital a review, and they simply say: This budget is not enough for realism, and it is very difficult for these people to look to the future and ensure when business becomes efficient if they experience it. There's no room to move about the whole system, so I agree 100% on it. It's not just about Land Hospital, and that's why this discussion came up, to form the service contracts at the nursing home, if we know it. We just know that. The contracts were being signed earlier this spring, although they were not completed before financial planning was first introduced. Were they ready after the second discussion started? Why don't you make some adjustments in there? This nursing home can look at their numbers and say, "It's gonna be okay. We will not have to cut a nail and create further bad conditions for our staff. We can't deal with a better VG, etc. so that this problem, which is always being so undefined, is so hard to get over at the end of the day, is something that money can only matter when the hole and the depth are so deep that people don't see the end of certain things. I would have simply wanted to see, a respectable president, a different priorities here for a long time. Then it all costs a lot more money to run the system. That's the end of the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u82	A respectable president. I'm moving here on a third-in-the-part basis, the plans for which. A senator. Guðjón Guðmundsson and the first financial programme of each government play a key role in public policy. In this financial program, a newly formed government can show how to conduct key aspects of the government covenant and what priorities will be proposed in the years to come. The financial program under discussion is different from that of pointing out how to fulfill those election promises that form the nucleus of politics. The treaty suggests that during the next five years there will be almost no change in the terms of the government except for the external effects. That's a population increase. The current budget may be assumed to have been transferred into an excel document and then turned to the right, the only political emphasis that can be found and discussed on how to reduce debt collections at the expense of other projects. Only part of the many assignments offered in the government covenants are expected. Big projects, such as reimbursement of the social security system and the construction of a national theater board are not funded. When asked, ministers of the government say that the others and these projects are not expected because of the lack of ultimate cost. Such work is a sign of the basic understanding of the government's role in financial programmes. If financial programmes are to reflect the development of the state's budget during the current terms, a clearer picture must be drawn, clearer than this. The economy of this budget is based on Iceland's Institute of National Economics. According to her report, 5.7% of inflation was initially expected this year. Now, just two months later, it is clear that inflation will be considerably higher, probably around 7.5% this year and also predict significant inflation during the following year due to a pandemic, such as the rise in the recent invasion of Pútín in Ukraine. There is a serious shortage of apartment housing, which has led to unprecedented increases in real estate markets. Under such circumstances, it is necessary to ensure that financial matters do not increase unnecessary expansion in the economy. Nevertheless, it is more important than ever to protect the welfare and transport systems. In fact, social infrastructure can't afford further cuts. The health system is standing on the feet of bread. Day after day of poverty and ongoing problems and inequities, distress calls come from year to year. In a pandemic, the rich grafted into a pandemic when stocks hatched one another, while many people suffered severe tragedies, both health and financial, signs of the 19 - year - long - term effects, Kuwait 19 and still others lost their jobs and suffered much financial damage. We can't just tap the door on these groups in the name of the economy. These are groups that have been calling for help for a long time. We can't deny them. Justice one ride. Men, dictionaries'response, the budgetary committee, received a number of reviews on the financial agenda, and a number of sources were found. It is important to discuss only the key indications mentioned in this article. The National Association of Iceland, in its review, criticized the target of cost growth, but according to a financial report, it is aimed at a real growth of about 1% per year over a period of time. The People's Association said that such plans would not provide a basis for reformation in a government contract. The plan has established that a new project had to be funded by cutbacks. This is a change in priorities or an improvement in the use of funds. Already there would be an increase in expenses above the expected level. Estimated expenditures include due to counter-important action, increasing refugee growth, national stadium construction. The Common Union also repeated the first warning against doubting whether the state's income stocks will depend on regular expenses. This is of particular concern when income stocks fail to cover regular expenses, especially when it is clear that the impact of the changing nation's age composition will remain unchanged, leading to the failure of a system-based property on the state's budget. The priority of the restoration of the state's services at the nursing home was stressed by the services of an enterprise to be fully financed by a financial programme so that a 0.9% yearly rise in the budget of the seminary is not enough to cover the government's promise to finance the nursing arrangements as per the basis of their agreements. The organization also points out that the issue, the 25 topic field, was in need of funding for the management of Alzheimer's Service Centres. The swings then called the Syndicates for an increase of funding to the U.S., where funding is too low as an understatement of 300 billion. K. A year's basis. BSRB points out that the collection of debt that has taken place in the past few years and the aim is to stop at the time of the financial agenda can be largely due to the reduction in taxation of those who took effect during the last terms of interest, resulting in a systematic collapse of the state's budget. It is not wise to finance these operations afterwards by surgery. According to the National Hospital report, the hospital is faced with the unusual pandemic reviews, one of the pressures on staff during the past few years, as well as the severe lack of calmness and waiting skills that were long for surprises have grown even longer. During the past few years, the hospital has been on a permanent tail. Demographics are directed to change biologically. There is an increase in the population, and averages are increasing the pressures for the health system. Since the need for service is greater, the hospital budget needs to be increased by 2◯2.5% on the annual basis for the next five years over the next five years just to maintain a stable service level. Verb to quote the final statement, with the permission of the president: If the budget for the Land Hospital business is rising by 1% next year, 2% in the next two years, after and 1.3% there, it is clear that the Landspionist will not achieve the necessary resistance after the Quf 19, and will have a very difficult time meeting the major challenges facing the hospital. Such a conclusion would be disappointing. Quotation complete. The Commission of Iceland found that the planned review of the social security system in the financial programme is not expected to be a 2.5% increase in costs per year since 2024 only for biological growth and does not take into account increasing inflation rates or aims for increasing production of biofuels. Pension collections need to be greatly reduced here. There is concern that the financial programme is not to mention reducing the consumption of biofuels and/or dropping the first dollar cut-offs in the terms reached to 2025 or the budget being estimated to change the social security system. There is much to be said about financial management. In particular, the criticism of financial advisers is highlighted in the context of the lack of a government contract and the contribution of financial programmes. It says in the review of financial policies, with the permission of presidents: although the plan is the first in the history of the current government and the first as a basis for the new financial policy of 20222◯26 are not announced new arrangements, it must not be set up the so - called basics, such as being made in a comparable program for 2019◯2023, which showed the management of new and changed measures for the new governments. Adding this point in the context of a income plan raises questions as to whether a budget of donations is sufficient to fulfill the political promises outlined in a government contract. Quotation complete. It also calls attention to financial planning on investment points on the timeliness of the programme. The financial adviser points out that despite the so - called investment campaign, investment rates are not particularly high in historical context, especially in view of high financial recovery years after the financial collapse that there may be a number of national interest opportunities and can easily be justified in financing such projects if they have more money than the financial cost. The above reviews make it clear that the financial agenda for the subject needs a review. Sadly, in many respects these indications have been ignored by the government groups. This is clearly seen in the opinion of more of the legal committee. The position of the members of the government and the proposals of a greater proportion of legal committees for a large financial and economic coverage, both in the General Board of Auditors and within the Council, seems to be that there is no need to answer the criticism that has been presented. With regard to increasing inflation, contributions to financial plans are being made, and most important is to increase tax recovery and delay investments. The government groups called for action to meet low - income groups and family members in view of rising inflation immediately in February. It was not until mid - May that the government presented counterrequisite measures against inflation. It will only be said that these actions have happened too late and if they have gone too far. In fact, it might be thought that the government had taken into account the changes made by the government groups to a budget bill in recent years and decided to accept it afterwards. But only part of the government's package of action is put into place in the economy on the income side. Among them is a review of the structure and scope of the protection of valuable funds from marine farms. There will also be a gathering of tourists in line with the tourist service when you are engaged in the ministry. These are fields of employment that will contribute to growth in the coming years, the growing sector. A much closer one would have been raising the fishing rate, but it would not have looked for further growth in large production in the years to come or to the bank tax in the light of the superintendent banking system of the past few years. It's for investing. It is suggested that investment plans be delayed. It's a bad idea. It is important to remind you of the financial Council on Investor's Investors, and not that all investments have been processed and that you have committed on your property side since the fallout. Under that, you can take it. Investment is, in nature, an essential part of government and national importance for the future of society when measures are taken to reduce the expansion of the economy and to counteract inflation. The key point is that there will be concomitant surgery to soften the impact of inflation on them, especially the elderly and the desperate. It is also important to keep in mind that a large proportion of people are loans of inflation and the harmful effects of inflation on group property. The status of this group. A group of people have proposed certain measures to ensure the impact of inflation, not to cut down on low - income groups, and insured loans. The State is under obligation to protect the property of people who are paying off their insurance mortgages, insure their mortgages. Sadly, the government does not intend to take further measures to protect these social groups. The majority of the budget committees do not intend to cross-examine their comments and further increase the largest costs or promises in the government contract. Even though reporters have identified the lack of a review of the social security system, a greater proportion of the financial committees say that the aim of the programme is the first step in this process without explaining the steps involved and that further plans should be presented in the next financial programme at the end of the year. These plans need to be followed by financial support. We have no motto without us at all. The government has said that for a long time at first it had nothing to do with us. During the past few weeks, the emergency department may be in the emergency department, stress on staff, excessive patient waiting period, way too long. In the context of the review of the Land Hospital no other conclusion can be drawn, but there is a need to increase the financial resources needed to manage the health system during the time of the programme. Unfortunately, it seems that more of the legal committee is going to overlook current conditions that promise that better health improvements have not worked. It is a lawsuit that the secretary of finance himself makes note of the General Assembly that money is not missing and that the health - care problems of the health system are not brought about because of financial innuendo when the contributions made by financial programmes for the development of his financial programme do not guarantee financial support of the Land Hospital and underestimate the selection of health services in the coming years. You can do better if you want. There is an urgent need for reform in many parts of the community. There have been decades of disability that have not followed pay development. There is a severe shortage of nurses, waiting lists are extending year after year, or children will have to wait for services that may be important to their future, humanity, absence of uterine space. Fundamental signs of the country's health system are expressed at a time when the word is found best in the world. It seems that the government is afraid to take action because the tremor between the administrations has already become so intense that a minister cannot even support the primes of each other in the reviews. As early as the first month of the season, it is clear that the government cannot agree on how to rule the country for the next four years under those circumstances. Reasons are not sufficient to declare any future inactivity. The third part of the memory feels that there is no time to postpone problems anymore. It is of utmost importance to meet the client's comments on the urgent task of the next issue and subservation in public welfare services. Apart from that, three smaller items cannot support financial programs and suggestions from a greater proportion of legal committees will fail to address the problem. Therefore, some proposals for making room available are proposed so that the necessary improvements in the social security system can be addressed and provided for safe health care. A third of my items suggests the following adjustment: Hospital service donations are suggested to increase by 2.5% in line with the expected services in the coming years. Send a review of the Land Hospital. This changes that over the next four years will be put to more than three correct by $3.3.5 billion a year, and it is designed to ensure that the Landsaholic is not funded, as you are trying to meet in any way the landspians ask for. There is another change. It is suggested that the State's contributions to the United States increase by 300 million. K. This year in line with the information contained in the Social Services Association on the lack of financial resources in the SA. These are not very high, but the amount that can make a difference in terms of the U.S.A. and ability is also necessary to continue their good work and finally contribute to a spending range of 27 increases in 10 billion dollars. This year for reorganisation of the social security system and reduction of revenue. This is absolutely necessary. It is absolutely necessary to deal with the indiscretions of the social security system. We can't afford to spend years, and years after decades of having these terrible butt-studded things that the social security system has become. We are shamed by the fact that we have a system so designed that in many cases it can harm people when they are putting money into the system that is supposed to improve the status of that group. It is. Is there anything strange about the system that doesn't really tolerate, that there are money in the system that is different from what they are taxless and taxless? That is what it says itself is at the present time, where inflation triggers prices, housing costs. In this context, we can also conclude that we have still been in a situation where the public is someone who needs physical therapy or who goes to specialists, they can no longer afford it because they are not written. The cost is high that the person does not even have a chance to afford it here. It's like I say, this financial plan is in many ways. She wasn't good, and as I've listed here, changes need to be made in her. I hope that the modest little changes that we make in the Gang of the People are putting in here a price that will be taken into consideration. But if we look at the budget and the total cost to the jury from 223,2027, then you'll be really dumb when you see it in many of the main categories of cases, and it's well, and it's a significant decrease in some 2027, which sometimes becomes totally understandable compared to where it is, except that, as you drive your eyes into it, all at once the rise in the media, but at the same time, a high school phase doesn't understand such a financial plan, where certain issues such as transportation and dropped, while other matters are less important, are simply increasing in front of the verb. Then I'm not going to have more to say about this for now, but I hope so much and fervently that we're going to have a change proposal taken into account. That'll give you an answer. Hv. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u83	Yes, Mr. President. I thank a distinguished speaker for the review. It is always difficult to be accepted into one of these activities when you yourself are not being following along and participating in the discussion, even though all the information we receive from our peers. Truly, I expect to be with him. A senator like me knows himself, but I just wanted to bring in a subject I know of. A senator knows especially well, and that includes. and I agree that the thing about this income connection that we've been talking about so many times about a microenergy pension and a loss of income is that there's something we're dealing with and what we're doing. A senator has often asked questions about it at a council hall. There are ministers with and times their explorers as we know it, and they're starting to deal with the system. There's not been an agreement about which ways to do this. But I certainly think he's going to cut a knot. I hear no better than that it's done to make it happen, as if with other things. The budget has not been set up as a result of the lack of accurate knowledge of what is going to happen. I'd also like to mention, too, because this is exactly what we're talking about taking action to shut up the economy and work against inflation, that there is a fundamental reason for it to be done, to soften that effect against the revenue and, in particular, the elderly microorganism, and I truly agree with it. It is important and, of course, have been introduced here, but it is necessary that this group of special and poor people and people and people who live under a very poor choice. I think it's one of the things we're trying to do, but we really need to be awake because we have no idea how this will develop, especially this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, the answer and I agree with that, but I've been involved in two committees on a review of the social security system that's been trying to get these things done. I find that it is really possible to deal with this system, so it is kind of sad to know that it has not been recorded because it is extremely important, and especially that there is something wrong with a system that is so that if the person tries to work, he might land on the wall a year later with a huge loss of work is when all is listed, those who are not even going to be under something. A minimum couple don't pay for the person trying to work. There must be something very serious and very much of a system that we have to change. We're supposed to make sure that those who want and can win something, that it puts them in their pockets, and we're not supposed to start cutting things like that until they're in the water. The person is up to the average wage for the job he is doing, for example. It's incredibly unfair that two people are working in the same place at work and the other people are failing right away and they never get up once in the other half because of impairment, even if there's a certain expansion of the system, it would be and that it would, for example, be a problem. The nationality that we have repeatedly suggested to have, that, for example, those who wish to work might have a job. Go out and find a job, and you may be affected for two years. They tried very hard, but I think we should try while building something so black, do something right away, not always think about the future at Grensá's. paritaprevir Bjarkey.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u85	Yes, Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with that, and that's one of the highest. Society and labour service ministers are on the move. This work involves getting people to work that they can do, and especially what to say to those who have not yet been able to do. It is so important, too, that this very motive exists. That's a very basic requirement. I'll just agree if you don't go to work if you get a third, because it's really in your pocket. So, speaking of working next to someone, it's just that it's completely unannounced. But I'm very happy that this work has begun to bring what is creating some kind of system around it. Then it's the first thing he's been doing right now, so we're taking steps, and hopefully we're just gonna have a case right now in the winter about that, because I just wanted to roll up with the senator, because there are some two organizations here, especially in the motion of change and then here in a committee party, just so that it's so important that it's so important when we're talking about plans. It's usually these big lines. But then, when we're making plans for some kind of change to some of the institutions or something like that, it's not exactly a financial thing at all. We don't know if the Alzheimers are inside. It is not until a minister makes his suggestion, or SOUTH, or whatever the conclusion really will be. But, indeed, the need has been presented to the committee in my opinion, at least Perhaps suggestions that are more relevant to the budget itself. Rather, policy is the one involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u86	Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen's Black Island before the counter, and I agree that often when newcomers come in, it's not quite clear how. But there's one thing I wanted to agree with, too. Here, however, is our suggestion to add 10 billion a year, due to a review of the social security system. This is so if we start thinking back in time, this is not even enough money to compensate for any changes in our system toward the elderly at the time. It was I took up some time ago that it didn't happen at all two years ago that had come up to 15 billion accumulated money that didn't get into itself into the micropower system because it didn't go into these system changes at its time so that these 10 billion each year to replace this system is not a lot of money because I'm also convinced that if we take this system and revise and make it better, they'll come back on a lot of ways because I'm convinced that if we do this system, it's simple, beneficial, and so that everyone can understand the system to work a far better way than the system, and because they'll tell themselves while living in this system and I'll try to figure it out if it's really be true. So you know the consequences of the strength, whether it will be good or even cause a chain reaction to me, on the other hand, to a team social network, we have a monster that's just terrible and it's gonna happen. All I'm saying is that we must and we have, and we have an obligation to make sure once and for all, take this system and the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u87	A respectable president. Under consideration, there is a financial programme for the period 2023◯2027. The plan that we will discuss here is adopted by the last legislature, and now the plan is up ahead of the latest Haust projections and interests that lead to the role of the public and economic trend of plans. I'd like to briefly review some points, become a topic area of the program, and address a fairly serious subject, but it's too far to discuss them all here in this speech. The schedule includes: There are significant reductions in road and vehicle taxation, but there are significant consequences of driving and making, taxation uses on the national road system, and taxation arrangements. However, there is no accurate analysis of that surrender, but there is a considerable amount of money. It is very important that we do not shrink back in this review and look closely at taxation, and there we need to link together that my wise incentive to use new energy, to use vehicles, and to support the goals we have set for less emissions. There is also a need to examine the interaction and the right motivation. That right desires become more varied. When it comes to the funding of transport workers, and there are several ways that have been considered there, and I think it is of utmost importance that we look for more costs than we have been doing now so that more work is very important, although there is a great need in the next budget for the changes that reflect the use of vehicles, the road for my benefit. Governments have placed special emphasis on innovation and spending in research funds, remunerations, and motivations, and support networks, Grímur gear, Grímur, the excuse for enormous sums of money. The focus has been on climate, health, equality issues over the other factors, although everything in this programme, as stated in the Committee, the opinion of the greater part, is new to the growing challenges faced by law enforcement and public protection, and it is important that the overall safety issues are in order. But we know that the public defenses have actually been in place since the 2019 storm that took place, mainly in the north and east of the country, and since then we have experienced geologists, volcanic eruptions, landslides, and many other things that the public defenses have had to react and do so in style. However, we must not forget the traditional initiative taken by law enforcement officers who, in fact, hide. in the area of traffic protection, but the examples show an increased traffic law, can have considerable economic benefits and can be done there, for example. Consider the efforts of the police in the Northern West during 2017/2018, where there was a 26% reduction in traffic control, including a 26% reduction in traffic control, in the district. in the medical system, but it is important that funding for the police is in a way that enables the office to perform general and effective monitoring. It may be asked whether the general economy requirement should apply to the person's response, such as law enforcement, in which pay and pay related fees are about 80- escapade50% of expenses and economy, space, almost nothing to go to, except to reduce the cost of the donor or to reduce routine monitoring. The importance of different and varied transport is often too often overemphasized, and it is vital that the State continue to support the development and development of the transport system. Investment in transport men must be a very long - term investment. It can also be used by those who established an economic management tool and look forward to projects in less colder, less production instruments, such as road - to - road measures to improve transport safety often differ from human waste. The French. This financial program provides the basis for the rebuilding of roads, school applications, and employment applications to science and the ongoing growth of daily traffic markets, ifby no significant speed, the rate of restoration of structural barriers is virtually uninhabited. I think that in this context it is very important to consider over a longer period of time, even though there may not be a steady discussion of whether a large amount of these interfaces are in school, and others need to build them up in the same manner that is set up according to the standards of building it up to a full range of enormous financial resources. More often than not, it would serve the purpose of such a course simply to place on them a barrier if possible. This would be very expensive, for those with whom we live, but it is also important to be seen on transportation to link the core and settlements rather than just a shortcut on a highway. One example of such projects is the Forest Coast road and the road, the lowest Laxáral valley that will link areas from Stykishholm and the Snæfellsnesi, in the Valley of Burgurs, Hahmbung, in the east of Hunsar County. It is clear that with such a project, the basis for the cooperation of community members is completely different from that of today. The priority of national telecommunications needs to be, and in the years ahead, but it should be obvious to all that is now widely available, where no or limited cell phone service on long chapters is completely unacceptable. At the same time, this structure needs to be determined to wipe out black spots in the central communication system, our response to land. The food production and development of food prices are now facing severe threats, and the Food Minister's work should be welcomed to define national food security. It is obvious that food and raw materials are being offered and that there will be a continuing shortage in the next few years. This trend will have a significant impact on the public standard of living that defends it. A large proportion of their income is needed for food, but the project is just as good as protecting the manufacturer's capacity and the manufacturer's capacity to manufacture. It is clear that the present state of the production of carnivores in carnivores is particularly diminishing, and if nothing has to be done, it will go very fast and we will face a grave situation in farmers and Icelandic food production. The specificity and support of the early producers need to be determined in a practical way to maintain their ability to manufacture. Coping with this problem is not just a problem for farmers and deforestation. To keep food production in place in the country, work on a broader foundation and on a larger basis to promote and improve food security and protect inhabited areas. You see, this is one of the biggest settlements we're dealing with today. That's what I was doing here earlier, and time is not working with us in that regard. You see, farming is a fundamental factor in climate development, and it is important to rely on the development of Icelandic society, the balance of coexistence, and nature. There is strong evidence to apply with intensive agricultural and agricultural research. More successful in climate, increased domestic production reducing the import, improving the use and handling of feed and improved livestock feed. Supporting the development of reducing the negative impacts of man - made climate change in order to advance with green climate agriculture is important to have clear vision and goals. It is important to use the domestic agreements with nature protection as a guide, as well as to reward farmers for success. The marine road is one of the construction of the economy and is inhabited in the land. It is vital that we trust the article at the same time as the future. The construction and sustainability of these articles is a joint responsibility of the government and the fishing business. As a result of the Russian war effort in Ukraine, fishing prices have increased significantly with increasing prices for fishing and fishing companies, making it clear that the management conditions of these companies have also increased with increasing oil prices and all of the resources, but it is evident that improved recovery in this article will provide higher fishing costs that are especially used in the fishing area to cover the state's budget. Thus, those who profit most from rising products on international markets will contribute more to the common fund. It is vital that we make peace with our future in connection with these important sectors, and I have high expectations for what food ministers have now started with a team for the future of the seabed in this country. The economic impacts of fish farming increase year by year, regardless of the build-up effect or increase in the export prices of the country. It is important that particular attention be given to the use of fish farming for further valuables through further research. In my opinion, it is also clear that the regular work of the industry is being taken up. The more anticipated conditions must be for the rural population that house fish farms, and better able to meet those in building of essential infrastructures due to increasing activity and building fish farms and population growth. It is clear to me that the regular work of fish farming needs to be revised in the light of this. Travel is the fastest industry in recent years. It can be said that the industry as one of the major exports of the country has broken children's robes. All long-term policy decisions must be based on solid foundations and how to make more stable in the industry and more valuable things. It is important that there is an increasing increase in the development of tourism research and the need to prepare for this work. Increased energy research is one of the main factors in energy exchange and climate. Therefore, it is important to place in place the increase of funds made in budget 2022. A major and important project in energy. Electric distribution suffers trespassing and decision making. The program continues to support the distribution system of electricity in scattered regions. Interpolation costs and access to a secure distribution system in a country where energy exchange, e.g. In transportation, in the process of moving, important political questions arise about the availability of people and businesses, stable connections to electrical systems, and the safety of electronic energy are being made up of significant spending and rarely reach legal targets. The energy exchange is a national project, and it is important to support the funding and order of the nation. The bioavailability of enterprises and electronic structures is widely inhibited when it comes to housing security and valuables. For example, there is no power or connection in an entire town. Even homes and rural areas that are not linked to the distribution and therefore not readily available for all citizens, they vary greatly between rural communities at the high costs of rural development of high school branch offices. The development of land components has become a positive factor that more young people now have the opportunity to pursue higher education in their homes, regardless of their specific high school background, while improved equipment and communication have opened up new opportunities for an even greater variety of academic opportunities. This is a very important point, and the president asks a respected speaker whether he has much left of his speech. No. The president asks why. A senator pauses his speech, but the attention of the president has been drawn to the fact that the Economic and Business Committee is still meeting and there is a request that a meeting not be held at the time of the meeting so that the president asks. A senator must pause for a moment while we figure out what to do. A senator can then finish his talk when a congregation meeting begins again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u88	I'm going to go back to the place where we left off, but I think there would have been some talk here in my middle of a talk that just ended up talking about suspension. I was going to go to the next team. I'll keep going. It states: "The importance of reducing tension in the economy is laid down in a large part of the committee's list of resources and resources. In spite of this, there is a growing need for housing. One of the main challenges to the management of the economy, the growth of households due to increasing inflation requires that social housing be firmly established. It is emphasized that financial support for housing for those to whom it needs to be based on reliable budgets and budgets for its duration will be supported by needy tenants, socially established buildings, whether it is a means of public action or independence. A respectable president. As we have seen, economic and outlooks have changed considerably since the strategy was submitted. Today, a much higher inflation rate is expected than was expected on the basis of current and economic forecasting and, in view, a proposal to update plans is made. In the modified share proposal it is expected to take into account both the income and the remuneration aspects of the schedule. The aim is also to exploit the eco-efficiency in the economy to reduce the angle of state funds more rapidly than expected, in line with the aim of a money policy to achieve a reduction in in inflation by reducing growth in the economy. These changes can be divided into five categories, and I think the chairman of the budget committee has handled them right here in his speech, so I'm going to let them out and only into the group that I have left, all but pay for a change in the grammatical areas of 75 billion dollars. to increase the duration of the schedule. All of this accounts for a total improvement in the state's funds of between 20 and 30 billion dollars. Each year during the season of plans. A respectable president. I've completed my consideration of budgetary management of 2023 a2027, and I believe that it is a good way to be with you until the next year. The past few years, however, have shown us that unexpected and unforeseen occurrences can have a significant impact on the business of the State Fund, so it is clear that if a plan is involved and it is important to look at it in that light.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u89	President. I'd like to start with the final words of what? The senator's plan and should be viewed accordingly. I literally just disagree. Although this name is financial strategy, it is a legal document on public finances that is to be published by the government's policies. Government policy has a highly defined form of goals, cost analysis, cost assessment and recovery, priorities, and so on. That's not a plan. It is the objective of the government that is to be achieved in financial times. It's not a plan, just be absolutely clear. That's the difference. Only on what the Icelandic language is and how to use it and what the law will say on them. Then I wanted to ask. A senator: How does the government's policy in this financial program appear, e.g. to various legal projects, such as the handling of law enforcement, housing, or health care? Let's just take law enforcement. We've been given a relatively often legal representative here, which says that a financial commission is not describing a certain condition of that legal category, legal rights, and so on, but we often didn't understand where the need for financial resources is coming from. of that group. There's nothing that explains anything that's especially well. But if that's the problem, you'd want to see what's the problem, and why isn't it solveable by e.g. Prioritization and this explanation by the government, if necessary to fix the problem, so that where in a financial program you can see how governments are going to deal with these social problems we face and have been listed here, many health speakers, housing, law enforcement, them and many other things. That's when an answer's answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u90	Example of Stefánsson Stefsson's Vagn. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for Björn Leví son of Gunnarsson, for the answer and just so clearly it is that when I say in my final words that there is a plan here, I interpret it, I was going over it in my words just ahead that the events that the Icelandic state has and the Icelandic people have experienced in recent years, both with regard to the code and now the Russian invasion in Ukraine, and of course, have such an impact on the plans and policy of the kingdom, and the objective was just what I was to avoid. I completely agree with the senator on the goals and policy of the budget. Of course, this is government policy and the objective of government, those to appear there until 2027. I think it's very clear in this program who they are and it's shown in this program that I was simply pointing to. Is it that it's just with this thing like other men's work that there's none of these things, there's a lot of stones, and if any events, like I was just listed above, that we can't see who are today when we're in here and we're taking this discussion, of course we have to and we're going to change these things? It was just that. It was kind of the point I was coming into. But I agree completely with the senator as far as the goals and policy are concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u91	What about south, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson? Mr. President, then, who is the government's policy on a very major case since the last term and is still a problem today about, for example. A nursing home and that service? I can't read government policy where we should be in 2007. They would think that after all these years we were discussing this case on a budget board, certainly during the last term when it was. A senator was not yet a problem. We've got a presentation for the budget board. She's the same one that's been here for a long time. What? How is the government showing us, how will it deal with this problem, and how will it bring about this series of issues at the end of this financial program? That's the kind of message I want to be able to get into a financial programme and read that if nothing goes wrong with another epidemic or anything like that, just given what we're seeing in the predictions we're looking at. We're working on national ideals and things, just plain economy, etc. provided we're going to take this group from this position to this position where it's going to be much better and awesome, etc. and explain why and how. Where is that explanation in this financial program of one subject? The answer will be the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u92	Stefánsson's Vagn. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. I can totally agree with the senator when he starts talking about the need to be clearer. With regard to certain terms for a member of the council like the one standing here coming in here and taking his first steps in these programmes all together and going through this for the first time, I'll be sure to admit it's a bit much to get into. It's a bit complicated and a big tied up in trying to understand, so it would have been nice to be in the budget with these test balls like that. A senator, including a member of the council. which has often pointed to it, and I am quite able to share some with him in the need to be clearer, and I think the board of budgets is all there. I have not heard any criticism from the senator when he has been talking about the need to be a little clearer. I spoke to the police earlier that I know quite well. Then you can see the rise, e.g. Police Department, about 21% from 2017/027, which is now considerable. But how do we get the police out of the place where it is today and in a better place? 2027? I'm not necessarily sure that this is done in the financial program, and I think it's much more about the self-employment, the state police officer in the case of sharpening lines and synchronating the role of the State Marshal on the priorities and projects we want to put on the front of the police. Of course, we have put increased weight on projects, e.g. Like a network, crimes, sexual abuses, and so forth, the lawgiver is coming in with emphasis. But I think it's primarily like that. such as the lawsuit, the State Marshal's office itself, who needs to put his lines there rather than us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u93	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a financial plan for the 203/2027 in a future discussion. The budget includes policy-making on continuing debt collections throughout this terms. However, the public's overall growth will be negative throughout the season, and in the program the collection of debt is low, not merely due to its pandemic but because of the fact that the underlying product of the government has become negative by the year 2019. This has been pointed out, including of the Parliaments of the Archipelago. The responsibility of the economic management is to keep track of the revenues of the public balance in the state business, also during the rise-up period during the first half of the terms of lack of maintenance, as is normally an increase in tried and investment, and temporary revenues are set aside for permanent spending. Thus, economic fluctuations are exaggerated. As in 2020, economic growth requires time and then, when national production is combined, the government reduced investments and further exaggerated the decline. In the history of this government, the responsible economic government has been sorely lacking. I'd like to, sir, a respectable president, before I continue to review a few of the reviews that were received on the committee's coverage for a while. There were 38 requests sent out. The committee received 41 paraphrases, and I, by permission of the President, wanted to read here from some of the important things that I think are important, and I intend to start with the People's Association what the Common Association says, and I believe that the aims for expansion growth are unrealistic and not based on the improvements proclaimed in a government contract and the funding of new and increased projects will be changed only by changes in priorities or improved budgets in conjunction with cutbacks. The increase in expenses is expected to be further improved, including due to counter-important action, increasing refugee growth, and construction. ASI's national stadium points out that short - term problems in government have been reduced because public financial prospects are more practical than expected. Long-term challenges remain. There was still a lack of policy on how the government's income should depend on long - term expenses regarding the nation's aging and pooling. The needs for investment and welfare benefits of BHM are on a similar scale looking at the income fractions that mine knows that it has not been covered properly. BSRB BHM spoke of as well. it would be possible to increase capital gains and then that there would be a possibility to consider that specific support measures taken by many companies would be reimbursed, including Because many of them have been paying a considerable amount of money after arriving the elderly have ended. Then, according to BHM, it could be considered to retract a decrease in bank tax that the Ministers have, among other things, may have. does not follow up, but do not follow up. Yes, a whale's tax tax has been mentioned, and it will then be placed on the sectors that have gained the most during this time of a pandemic, and it is now just that many companies just stand a long distance in spite of epidemics, but others don't. But there are many companies that come out well from this epidemic and even better than often before. Business organizations are similar to those described as the underlying imbalance that has begun before this epidemic and that the underlying products of the State Fund have been negative on 2.2.2% already in 2019. So all of this is encouraging to say that there is a systematic limp and state business, and then it says, by permission of a president, that there is a lack of resources that have led to this time - consuming income that has been often set aside for permanent expenditures. This creates a imbalance and a problem with the government in Iceland. Calculus does not have financial rules that provide excessive cost increases in rhythms, such as values in many other countries, and then it says: If the financial community is responsible, which is, of course, a big deal for us this year, the terms of paying for a financial plan will not be guaranteed, the balance of government management will not be guaranteed, and the constant prices will not be guaranteed. The positive equation that is expected to form at the State Fund in 2025 will be negative. Finally, I'd like to mention, I'm going to, too, to mention that what the organization says no, what a business agreement says about rural investments that are in historically low in the epidemic, while rural society has a legal obligation to its inhabitants and must meet them regardless of what may be thrift and humid so that they have a significant need for investments, and business advice is about this, that their investments in their plans are falling to the tensions of the economy, and that they will exaggerate the economic rhythms of the situation rather than soften it. And finally, a respectable president, I would like to mention here the comments of a financial council that are actually considered serious in my opinion that a system of government management is the principal reason for continuing debt collection until 2025, not automatic debt collection, fluctuation, or special measures for Kuwait. This important point is not covered in enough or in detail by a financial plan. The swing corrected system may late be considered a high-level policy point under local circumstances. The results of the calculation depend on uncertainty, on many factors, and some on the lack of trust. On the basis of official financial legislation, policies should be based on baseline sustainability, safety, stability, stability and transparency. The value of services as policy guide. The financial adviser has identified the laity of the government at baseline over the years, and it cannot be seen that the relationship has improved in a more productive schedule. It weakens policy. This, a respectable president, brings us to think about this financial program and whether it will be over the head as a document to make this five-year journey ahead of us. But now, in the next few years, there is a exchange and a debt pool of reality for the government, borrowing the money paid by paymen at last for the next few years. The government that will replace this in the years since then will provide a measure of survival. Official financial policies have been removed, which basically means that only policy guidance is then a baseline value of sustainability, efficiency, stability, stability and transparency. There will be no more than a feeling of emptiness toward those baseline financial values. State funds are sick and have been further weakened during the reigns of the Independence Party, the forwards, and the left greens. As a result, it is not clear how the government will face long - term challenges such as the aging of the people, the accumulated needs of investments, and the building of education and the well - being of Iceland. In fact, it is not clear how the government will finance much of its own government covenants and the wonderful promises there. The government does not have a new opportunity to bring taxation capital gains, closer to pay-employment taxes, or put a clear frame of the resources, e.g. with a market in the fishing road, but it's going to stop into the hole by letting Icelanders go through Leifs Station pay more for beer and cigarettes. That's how the other one here is, the action being the highest. Secretary of finance has preached almost exclusively to the public the income of the country. There's no way the government is going to face the consequences of this mess at the sale of Iceland Bank. This means that delay in further sales for an indefinite period produces 100 billion dollars. a hole from previously intended to be closed, of course, by borrowing, which means increased competition for loan markets, and the cash flow will be adjusted in that way. Clearly, the aim of a financial plan for cost growth is unrealistic. There are many things in the maps that the government has announced, tax appeals for film making, infrastructure, new national stadiums. This will not be financed by priorities alone or by the improved use of funds. I'd also like to, for this reason, it's this: The government has agreed to the project, all work that's just like a hook that turned off goods and will leak all this year, and we don't know where it ends and how much money it's going to be. A respectable president. I'd like to mention a nursing home. The government has renewed service contracts in nursing homes and committed itself for three years to finance their operations based on the basis of the contracts, they include an increase in the cost of well beyond 0.9% of the annual increase expected to be made for nursing and rehabilitation during the period of the programme, especially because it is expected to increase substantially in the coming years to pay costs. V.E.G. A financial minister recently mentioned at a meeting with a financial committee that the National Hospital was fully funded. In view of the views of the governor of the Land Hospital, this is not the case. The land hospital would need at least A 2% absolute gain per year for the change in age combinations and based on these criteria. About all the land hospitals are missing 8.3 billion on the business only to stay gone. The hospital needs to be able to develop and develop the best technology at any given time, and it needs funding. At that time, working time and shortening about four hours a week have resulted in significant design problems in the hospital, as admittedly the result of the ministry, as well as a number of employees, many of whom have been put under intense stress during a pandemic. The number of hospital workers may be missing in order to care for the needs at the hospital. The fact is that a group of workers now disappears and goes to other jobs because of much stress and even more because the hospital does not seem competitive in terms of pay. How sad to think that educated nurses choose to go to other jobs, e.g. working as a flight attendant because remuneration at a level that has been impaired is considerably better than the salary of nurses in a medical facility. There's something wrong with that position. Recently, at least 30 nurses, left jobs at the medical department of nurses who had telephoned and assisted patients throughout the country by telephone, according to a press report, are now seeking to take over the health care of the capital area. One must wonder, " How will the health care of the capital area be affected? ' This is a means of being a person within a system in which to perform this vital service at the moment. Why is there so much waiting art in the system that actually shows? I suppose this 30 nurses who were doing this work at the medical care department have not been disabled, so health care must have been needed to care for the work that these nurses used to do at the medical care. Or are these, a respectable president, just another mistake within the medical system, ill - intentioned and poorly prepared? This certainly reminds us of the removal of the cervical screening contract and the consequences of this on the part of everyone. The 2022 budget stated that the initiative of the management force put 250 million into subsidies in the psychological service, and it's not to see that this has been accomplished, and you must wonder why. It doesn't seem to see that this is being expected either. In a 2020 financial program, the World Parliament adopted a bill for the restoration that psychological services are part of the insurance system available to all regardless of the economy, like other health services. This law has ignored the government, the laws that were approved by unanimousness and even by law. with the votes of many of the highest. Minister. This makes psychological services, available to people, but it is also designed to reduce the incidence of disability because of spiritual illness and to save long - term financial resources. It is long time for the government to think of long - term purposes and goals, but not just waiting for fires to start and the race to turn them off. Similarly, there is an increase in health care production of about 500 million. K. Next year and 100 million. K. The year after that is nowhere close to what is considered sufficiently close to being sufficient to meet the more serious mental health situation, especially now after two years of a pandemic, under budgetary regulations that would result in a change of 1.5% in excess of inflation. However, new suggestions allow only half a percent of the index. Interestingly, the government expects the labor movement and the pay contracts in the country to agree with collective agreements, with a half-percent change over the index that was out of harmony with the changes in housing prices, rents, interest, fuel prices, and not at all in the future, that there is something to be changed in the near future. To me, the highest contrast is that a financial plan does not reflect the reality we are facing. For example, if the government had something to do to protect people's financial resources, there is no sign of the financial agenda, it might be a crime. On the contrary, it contributes to increasing payment on the public, has contributed to promotion beyond what would have been necessary if the economic government had been more in line with the objectives of the National Bank. The government has also protected the crown, which in its historical setting is the nation's greatest financial gain. At the same time, the balance of the budget depends on the continuation of pay expenses. There's a lot to say, so that all the reasons for this plan fail, and I'm not quite optimistic for the government. Housekeeping is a security matter. It is necessary to ensure that housing at a controlled level is provided. V.E.G. In order to improve this situation, the Minister of Industrial Services has proclaimed a change in these materials. That there are many things to consider in this regard, and all that is clear now is that the situation is unacceptable. The appearance of a cliff, an unfortunate tenet founded by ASI and BSRB, changed dramatically and has now built a number of apartments in many rural areas, but better if possible. Thus, the reduction in the contribution made to construction of a public apartment of 2 billion is ambiguous and in no way harmonizes with the promises made. Similarly, rural communities need to be able to access the amount of loan in terms comparable to those enjoyed by the government. The majority of our neighboring countries, as well as the commitments of a country that ensures a lower risk and a more favorable growth rate, class commitments. A single piece of pen could be corrected, thus improving the interests of all your country's farm members. A respectable president. In this sustainable democratic community, we find the following text that I would like to witness, with the permission of a president: The government stresses the building of strong and sustainable rural communities, where social and financial motivations are for unity. A member of the rural community is being supported by action in the government's policy of action in the area of government. The total number of rural areas in Iceland is 69 and is rapidly decreasing. The population of rural society is very different or very different from that of 40 inhabitants to over 136,000 inhabitants. More than half of the rural population have a population of less than 1000 inhabitants and about one-third of the rural population with population under the 500 main challenge of the rural regime, while at the same time its main opportunities involve its growth and increased self-sustaining community. The results of analysis of the financial impact that the population of rural society would not be less than 1,000 people show that their financial benefits could be from four billion to 5.5 billion because of the change in business focus. The funds could be used to improve service and to reduce debt due to extension of the equation to the unity of your community. In recent years, the government's budget has been paid up to 935 million dollars in the last year. It is not apparent that this quote ends. This text does not indicate that these objectives are somehow found in financial programmes, not to be expected to facilitate the integration of rural society, nor was it to be expected for correction that needs to take place on the contribution of an equation to rural society to the issues of disabled persons. Today, some 9 billion a year suffers from other services to which rural communities are obliged to perform. This must be corrected in spite of the beautiful words. Also, the rural population that has to represent a large infrastructure is not being seen. Then we have Reykjavíkurburg in litigation at an equation fund because of its contributions to elementary school and teaching bilingual children. It is noteworthy that many billions of donations are being made while the city is left alone. It clearly matters which side you live on. The causes of disability have long been horny in government financial matters, and financial programs show that they will continue to do so. The financial program does not reveal the need to improve the quality of disabled people. It has a plan of a 2.5% reduction per year since 2024, but the increase in demographics only and does not take into account the rate of future inflation is likely to be underestimated in the program. The need for microspheres cannot be solved by maintaining the current status. If the aim of increasing the number of micro-organization initiatives is to be achieved, a significant reduction in income exchange and the reduction in the number of subjects with 75% of microenergy assessments is achieved by increasing the number of rehabilitation measures and increasing early support for children and adults. Under these circumstances, they also fall. To make psychiatric services more accessible but also to ensure access to physical therapists and to eliminate child waiting lists after diagnosis and service. The budget needs to be supportive of these goals, but it does not. A respectable president. The crown hardly holds water in calm waters, much less when the international conflagration occurs, as it did between the ages and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The main reason for the growth in this area is always higher than in the countries around us, even when it is historically low, as at the end of the last term, they were still two or four times higher than in our neighboring countries. It is costly to maintain a currency like a dollar. It certainly allows the government room for economic government by bringing it down when the cost for it is bad, but every day we pay all year around it, and in fact, employees pay for it when it is dropped. Sadly, the Icelandic dollars are a stone in the street of innovation and intelligent branches. These are the sectors that need stability and perception and provide access to investments when large foreign investors supporting the procrastination avoid bringing their money to Iceland. You see, investing, not only in innovation, but also in a market area with a swinging currency, increases their risks. A respectable president. What makes you feel that this financial program is not worth the paper in these last days? Is accepting a number of things that will affect financial programs, even up to billions, which are neither costly nor financed, and some of them seem to be the highest. Ministers deep if all these expenses are to be funded with the cash only? I suspect that when a new budget is submitted next year, we will find that the cost of subsidies on the value tax of 5,000 pure energy cars, subsidies, and film production and other projects will be pushed to the next government during the next election period. Plans should be a guide to the purpose of the state, not a dream that will never be realized. You can give much longer talks about what is helpful in the budget than about what is beneficial in it. The financial program gives no convincing evidence that government funds will, during the time, resist inflation or reduce tension in the economy. Targets due to government costs are extremely lacking, and there has been no progress. With regard to the success of this financial program, I'd like to say this only in the end. It's me. I think and I think Icelanders deserve better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u94	I'm the next depression after this. I have to say, it's not supposed to be something that's false. But I'm often not going to say, I understand that there are things to be found when the government is speaking to government and country. It's just the natural thing. But I just want to, there's a lot of things that the Senator came in and maybe one of the flaws we have is that an audience can't turn in a formal committee party that would have been pretty good right now where it was going. The senator was just a little broad. But maybe that's how I'd like to, he walked in on a few things, and I'll ask the senator only if I bet one to another because he also talked about so many things. That was even. the building, building, building, and building, as well as the other thing, that we know that we've gone through it on the committee, including had to make some stock contributions because of this, that they could not be put to work. That's too bad. I agree with the senator that I think it is one of the good things that has happened. That is exactly the journey that was set in motion, and it may be that many societies are more successful and that we need to take better care of. But we also need to be ready for our communities. I wanted to wonder here with the senator where he would like to serve as a raise in income. I heard the resource charge. I didn't get it. There was something else he mentioned. Where does he like to go, and in this context, he may also want to carry on income - stock companies, since we have been told what we think. A senator, who has spent so long in a rural government, would be wise to make these rural communities where they can get as much money as possible? That's when the counter-respect responds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u95	A respectable president. These were some of the points to be considered. Yes, some stock development was made because rural societies, or I don't know why, not all of them, were ready for property or these unfortunate tenants, neither have they been ready to engage in action. But it is as if their organization and in a new organization that they are putting forward they have to assume apartments as adverse buildings where bad - lucked tenants are living. I guess it's all up to 25% in a new organization, so that's how it looks to the rurals. They just have to do it so well that I can't do it just a good example from a Smokejanestown where there's a new neighborhood being organized and that's where you've drawn weights for an unfortunate tenant. I also know that the tenure company for disabled persons is also building, so local communities are taking their place and understand that this must be done in this way, so I don't think there will be a shortage of rural society or other societies who intend to build an unfavourable system will apply for these overall future income productions, and I now read about BHM's comments that I just thought were very good and that were very good. a few suggestions, specific few suggestions that might be considered, and I may be just, by permission of a president, to mention: There is again an increase in capital taxes, reimburse specific support programs. It is really unacceptable that a number of rural societies, a major failure company, have only been on government grants, and will bring that profit to owners, the bank tax, a decrease in it, and then just the increase in resource costs. There's just a few things we can use ourselves to do. That'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u96	Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Yeah. Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer that I was wondering about, of course, because I know this discussion about these taxes and whale taxes on all kinds of things is only worry about whether we can legally ask for a reimbursement of the problems we had completed. I'm not sure. But what I'm thinking about is that I'm always thinking about my societies, too, because they need more businesses to meet the greater demands we're here for. to put them and then they may also want to offer better service, so I may be wondering: " Where can we get down so that they understand some real money for our communities? I've mentioned something myself. capital taxes because we know that there are a lot of people who pay themselves single wages through that system themselves, I think it might. Even if it affects rural society in a variety of ways, I think almost all of them live on or on something like that. But I guess that's not enough, it might take something else. I know this has been discussed with the equation fund, including... Then I may want something else about this challenge to the future and one of the things that perhaps a financial Council pointed to, and I just want to know what the problem is. A senator is interested in this, in that they or the financial rights are placed in the economy: rather than focusing on a great increase in salary. The recommendation suggests that in 2025, inflation forecasts of 2.5% are not reached if the result of the collective agreements is not consistent with the underlying economy. Quotation complete. I think it's just a financial recommendation to push the government that it's not going to be the way they called it was, I think, in a sort of dolphin race. I'd like to ask you why. A senator feels this conclusion of the financial Council and eventually everyone wins. Wants to play. A senator will be gone forever? Now it's been 60% to many years before we went to this special campaign last year. But I'd be back soon. A senator wanted this completely? The answer will be the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u97	Yes, a respectable president, as before, she brings up the rage. A senator may find it difficult to cross in two minutes with regard to farm income companies. Yes, this is something that is being looked at and every day how we can work out the situation. It's just the right thing to say. A senator that it is unacceptable for people who live on capital income not to pay an answer. It's just completely unacceptable, so there's gonna be some solution to the idea of getting a share in the money fund so that everyone will sit at the same table or figure out some amount of money that could then be made to an outback. There's been talk of the host's fee. It's not yet yet, and it's not coming back next year, at least now that's just this country's Slurpee Fund, and it's just causing some serious problems with their communities, that they don't think they're getting out of it because they need to attend to the classes that they have to do. Just like the affairs of the disabled, local society I come from, there were hundreds of millions of dollars minus mines just about this. It is being served because of the increased demands that the state has imposed on its rural communities, and they do not have it improved, these duties that would have been assigned to the duties laid upon the rural communities. We know it only with the MPA deal. They have been spending large amounts of money and the direct payments that were, of course, just ahead of that time prior to this NPA deal, so the rural communities have not been compensated for this. So I think maybe this is the sort of thing I'd like to consider at this point. I hope there are solutions to this situation, so this process is not always being handled as acquitted and sacred step. Yes, I don't think everyone works at this point. There's a lot of bullshit in society. It's a lack of traders who've made good use of themselves. These are intermediate groups and the highest income groups. Poor people are not making good use of this, and I don't think that billions are running out of government funds at this point in a project like this. Then it will speak respectfully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u98	A respectable president. Soon after a financial program was introduced here at the council, most became aware that there is heaven and sea between a government contract and the financial program of the government. We at the government stand pointed to this, the labor movement pointed to this and financial advice, a government expert group on government government affairs. You see, there is no way that one day we'll be able to expand, strengthen, improve the other, and improve the public services and promote the transfer systems, etc., but then on the next day we're going to have a financial program where the main theme is: to reduce the extent of the state's economy, to keep public investment in a small amount of public, and tailoring our common carts and institutions - our health, the school system, the social system - an overexcitement of tight water. This isn't working. What does it tell us about this financial program that, in the context of the guidelines presented, including of the largest unions in the country, of the financial council, is the chairman of a legal committee and complaining that she is just becoming depressed with this discussion? It should not be, though, that there is only something very sad about this financial program, not the legitimate criticism that has shown it? I believe that the cry - out contradiction between the Treaty and a financial plan has become clear to those in charge at some point. They must have figured it out. They just got country elections, and they were panicified. Secretarys and senators of the Future Party and especially the left greens, the panics, began to praise the other and this, across the financial frameworks. We can see this in promises of the highest. Enforcement minister of large structure of social housing. We can see this when the health minister says: "We're going to fix the emergency department, and we're not going to have money. We can see this when the Minister of Child Affairs promises national stadiums and we see this when they promise to improve the interest of pensioners, provide high-price schemes and long-term policy on the rest and this. It remains either. Either the financial program is a complete document, and then it is having a conquistador of the council by presenting this document and discussing it back and forth or forth, and that is the other possibility that there is nothing to be determined by any of the Ministers, their declarations, and their policies. These are two possibilities, and I was beginning to lean on the first, that it really was the financial program that wasn't worth the paper. But then, in these last days of the council, the government shows up here, the Ministry of finance is showing up here with major adjustments. This happens so quickly that there is hardly enough time to discuss the suggestions, the laymen don't have time to deal with them. However, the directors feel that this is absolutely necessary in order for the plan to be better compatible with the changing economic outlook and the government's plans for what to do. And what is involved in this update, these changes in financial planning? The proposals are not set up to deal with medical emergency crisis, health experts and the lack of funds for the ministry. No. Also, these adjustments are not made to address national accountant's comments on the quality of mental - health care or to deal with the neglect of a nursing home that has been confirmed to the degree or management of services to those who are disabled. No. The proposals are also not laid out to follow the proposals of a housing staff to form a national and rural framework for building 4,000 apartments each year. No. The most part's transformation is not about any of this. They are about increased resources to cope with inflation. Good-bye. It would be good and blessed if it wasn't for the fact that the government intends to take the balance step primarily on that income. There are flat taxes that go up, not the taxes that go on the highest income and the best. It should still increase the maintenance in the consumption when it comes to the management of public services. That's where the cut-off knife's gonna land. It's so ridiculous. There's no convergence in this economy. A few weeks ago, the General Assembly was doing counter measures here to protect vulnerable groups from the effects of inflation. At that time, a billion children's credit fees and a billion on a yearly basis went up to rent rent. But what do we see next a few weeks? Yes, tax increases and canals, 3 billion on the increase in income as a result of a dollar's fee, tax taxes that pay a relative weight on the most industrialized groups, as the world knows. It, however, does not interfere with real income management. Where are e.g. Is the promise of a government contract to revise tax evaluation regulations in order to reduce income supply and to reimburse capital income normally? Where are e.g. The whales' taxes as the highest. The minister of culture and commerce called in? And why don't they touch the fishing charges? A respectable president. We know exactly which groups are most vulnerable to inflation, rising cost of housing, and rising cost of food and fuel. It's the busiest people in the world. The problem is that the greater part of the government is also going to let the same group, the busiest people, take on the tax load, increase the tax burden for maintenance. It seems that it is a conscious and balanced policy of this government to let the rise of taxes land there. That's the government's national financial policy. That's how this financial plan works. This is the right policy on taxes and a public service fiscal policy. Thatcherism. It's tangible. People find it, people see it all over other things. But it doesn't have to be that way. Keep in mind that there are members of the council and class in this hall, more than 32 members of this hall, who identify themselves in some form of middle policy, socialism, liberalism. And who says that we, these senators, should always give the toughest right men, the denial, let them decide what is political and what is not? Here's a little thought experiment: We could combine to give everyone the aesthetics the added service to children a real meaning by means of a full - fledged measure of action and a targeted effort against the list of waitings. We could help with social housing, the fulfilling promises of the biographer agreement to the tenants, and make a national housing contract all in cooperation with rural society as the highest possible. The Minister of Wood has spoken for us. We could raise the stock money in the general housing system, thus in the long run against the price of housing pressure. We might even later in the duration of the programme when the situation is more practical for the advance promise of a child's leisure strength, do you remember? They were left in a drawer somewhere when the government's deal was created and this financial plan. We might also take decisive measures to make it more desirable to work at health care in Iceland. Government officials say, "It's not about money, it's just a carpenter's problem. But working against the man - made problem requires money. That's what we need to pay for. That's what it says. We could invest in home service, learn from what's best happening there in the Northern States to combat the graduation problem at the Land Hospital. We could do this, and it's gonna cost money. Of course it costs money, it calls for income, and we should be honest with it. This calls e.g. fairer resource fees, that we extract some of the tax rates that are most useful to high-payers and that were discussed here. We could even place some of the whales' taxes on the most stable sectors, as even the hold in the United Kingdom does. We could do things to save taxes and revenues and taxable capital pay in a decent way. If the advance party means something with the message of investing in people and improving child service, and if left greens really want to increase the equation and deal with climate problems, these two groups must break out of this budget, prioritize on government and tax issues. We have a choice to do this, to work together on the developments that the classes, which most members of this hall, promised voters. We do not just have a choice, we have a responsibility to do so, a moral obligation. But this also requires political creativity and courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u99	President. During the training period before the crowning of the virus epidemic, public expenses were allowed to increase so that the underlying yield was already negative. As a result of the recent epidemic, the government's growth and the question is, How and when to wind up from this trend. The budget is to describe a vision of the government's action that needs to be taken even now. The code of the outbreak's virus is dwindling, sending a message relating to the government's vision in favour of government control of future losses. Unfortunately, there is little progress in suggesting that the current financial agenda for the Council is important, but it is important that the government account for its vision for an extended period of time, describe to the nation how to manage income resources and spending development in future losses. Yes, that's exactly what counts. The State's situation is as noted earlier, the poor economic sector has marked the past loss after the impact was reduced. The crowns become the epidemic. For many years, prices have not been worse. According to a financial programme, the government is not a reason for taking special action because of this, sending a message about a vision to the next year. Industry and inflation seem to be another's problem, probably the Penitentiary. Admittedly, the late bank has a role in stabilising. The Federal Republic of Nations is expected to influence the demand and expectations of GDP, but in the global world, decisions for interest rates in the country can affect the behavior of investors abroad. Who can't remember the wax business that drove up the crown's gang before collapse? In short terms, low interest and reinvestment in high interest rates were reinvented. Iceland can't resist these currents. Pressure produces an increase in the craze that undermines competitiveness and growth over time, and then there is a risk that, when bound above, there will be a sharp correction with its related damage to the nation. Such a mistake must not be repeated. The CIA cannot alone protect economic stability. He needs support. This was pointed to by my colleague, Gilfa Zoëga, in a recent article in a clue. Governments are self-sustaining, conservative, stable, firm, and transparent. The answer is found in a suggestion that a financial program will be discussed here. They are vast, small, and unpublished, not including their response or vision of the role of the government in correcting the curve and changing a small answer. Not to be treated for loss of compression or inflation pressure. There is no indication that learning was taken from the mistakes of the past, according to this suggestion. In other words, a financial agenda is to postpone decisions on the responsible management of the state funds and the focus change in welfare matters and to leave it a task to ensure the stability of the Council Bank Table. However, the Secret Bank's tool chest is limited. If he does not have support, he will simply have to increase helmage, the more with the potential problems for debtable individuals and businesses and the above - mentioned effects on wax trade and to prevent them, the Secret Bank is little more available than to restore a currency head. I can't interpret it any other than to get inaction and complacency, as indicated in this suggestion that a financial program is, in fact, the government's cry for reinvigorated currency theft, and the question is: Are the members of Congress satisfied with the vision that only currency authors can maintain stability in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u100	I'm sorry to ask her. I want this second discussion on the government financial program to come up with a few things that I think are necessary to keep in mind right now when we cancel this first financial programme of this government. First, of course, I think I should just keep it up that the project, the time we're being dosed under the end of Congress to discuss this enormously extensive matter, of course, is a step, and it can be said that it's all in the same book now learned under this end, the larger and the more difficult it is, the amount of time. However, better off, there is more time for financial planning than for other major matters intended for the management part to finish at the end of the season, which includes. There have been dramatic changes in matters following signing of contracts of seven of the eight members of the council who are members of the council at the council. But in that light, I think we'll learn from it for the next few years. Then the government must make better progress and bring in big things more quickly so that it can be done, meditated on, and make comments that are necessary. Madam President. I'd like to address a few things to begin with, which are designed to be a policy and a vision of the government to the next term altogether, although the plan beyond the government's life span. This must then be considered as a complete view of what the government is going to do. We are familiar with the discussions of the past few weeks, which were quite significant in the process of forming around rural elections and particularly campaigning to the mayor, where ministers would ride around the area of Reykjavíkurburg and sign a declaration of will with the rural government of the contrary. One of them was a national toy of national goods down in the Valley of Saturday, which came to the date when there was no mention of the financial agenda. Another project is that to create reimbursement, this document is a guide and gives a clear picture of where the government is going. No doubt the debate over how badly it seems to have been under way has been carried out and carried out in connection with the various theocratic initiatives during the past term period of action, practical projects, especially nursing homes, road construction, U.S. university hospital, and so on. In all places, the building point remains, which may explain how easy it is for the government now to make a suggestion in connection with a change proposal or to consider more factors to reduce the development of the budget considerably. This actually happens under the cover of small collections of collections on the projection team where practical projects have not been able to continue. This is, of course, a thing that we need to consider in the context of the fact that such an excess of contractors can flexe the planning and rules of the construction sector so that the human working sector has become so complex, not to mention the needle eye that needs to be able to expand large tasks on the basis of environmental assessment. We're about to land somewhere where I think we've got to look at the whole thing and try to figure out what's likely to happen to get things going again because it's not good for both the country's business, the infrastructure and home, and really a state fund of this as bad as it really is to get on the move and on and on the trigger and that's it. It's really sad that now, if we just look at a bunch of powerful contractors working today, it's not much more diverse, unfortunately, than in the early years after a crash. It tells you that it is this: Lack of courage to build new strong societies, increase small and intermediate airlines, and so forth because there is so much uncertainty about the scope of each development. Tafr and any of the things we know now are just a march by road in Chets Forest. In view of this, I would like to encourage the government to try to establish something so more secure in the future than we've enjoyed for a long time. The fact is, by means of a transport program, a five - year plan and a long - term plan to 15 years of age, the appearance of being quite well-informed, but the situation is different. There is quite an enormous improvement in this system, so to speak, the transport programme on projects and resources that makes us find ourselves in that position, as it is now that there is an enormous array of accumulated funds that has not been managed to achieve it. The same is true, if we watch building to form the country around the globe that was being blown up to a great offense, it would not have been 2011, 12, something like that, where it was supposed to go a lot and then go on. But all of us are acquainted with the discussion and just waiting and how it burns that it is far from being accomplished to carry out such projects. Then there are the issues involved in the general infrastructure that if we are just looking at transporting electricity, there has been no delay in the impact of the storm at the end of 2019 in December 2019. Then there was a big plan for simplifying a rule and making it easier to deal with projects, lines of lines set up electricity between areas, and so forth, strengthening the structure, and knowing all of this. But the fact is, there are still days of work like this up here and whether there is too much conflict between the parties or opposition in other parts of the council or just the system. I can't quite figure out where it is. But all of this makes it harder for us to make the most practical use of the energy we are doing. It makes it harder for us to make sure that these regional islands work for electrical transport, so that electrical security is counterweighted. All of these are the elements that I have listed now that are designed to make any who understand that the electricity does not exist in the incision or meat in the freezer in Bronson, that there is no doubt that these projects and extending beyond this public system is one of the most important things we can see right now, and unfortunately, the last term is unsurpassed, and I don't feel that it has been successful at this first session of this term. In this regard, and only for those who listen to me. Then I'd like to encourage the government to bring a better case, because the situation as it is now is totally unacceptable. Because as soon as I say this, I don't think there's any senator sitting at the council right now who claims to have a place inside Iceland, if we look at these infrastructures, roads, roads, transportation plants, airports, electrical transportation systems, for example. There is no one who argues that this system has been, has been maintained, has been replaced, and carried out within them in a way necessary for the last. Well, let's say in ten years, so let's build up quickly. It is much easier to demonstrate the success of economics if you allow the internal debt to grow progressively and place the eye's binoculars on the need for maintenance and reinvestment, not just to grow a year from year to year, but to improve as a result of lack of attention. The same is true of the government's finances. We know a point of view so I'll go over to other things. We know the view to photographing what the gray army has put forth, since their calculations indicate that in the country's pensioners alone, more than 45 billion a year are on the basis of the deficiency of the gray army, which is considered an unjust injustice. It is simple to make accounting look good. If, alone, with very controversial declines, we are talking about the annual spending of 45.5 billion, it reminds me that the figure is then, if we add to the internal debt that is progressively building up, we are talking about the overall impact of factors such as this up to the huge amount and at the same time that contributes to financial law where tax charges, such as those tax strengths, I believe that the term used as it is so low that it is said to be kept in the lower level of credit. It's a special discount because it's a special discount from the State Fund that the difference between the higher and the lower tax points. This vision has come through this vision, that the treasure of the Kingdom has all these things in one way or another. We're somehow here loving running wheelmen and firms whose only job is to give as much of the income as of what we earn with our jobs in the state funds as all of this in the end, whether a vision I don't understand is a permanent and printed in a government that has so much in the past decade been under the leadership of the Independence Department. So I think we're gonna have to get out of this now. If we're just going to the topic areas here, I'm thinking about transport and communication, 11th part of plan. It is, of course, that, although cut down now in the implementation part, it may be primarily cutting down an indentation that has developed from the accounts made here, and there's probably something else in the main points there, I think. That's how it works. The secretary of the wood finally answered a written inquiry that I sent to him today not long ago, which had taken nearly a year to answer in an effort to draw out how road - to - road donations had developed, taking into account the transport and development of GDP. Then, of course, a whole different picture is presented, but when comparing the period for the development of a dollar in terms of initiatives, where, firstly, prices are adjusted, of course, where, at first, the periods of comparison and implementation which, as we know, will become more and more intensively carried out, simply because of increased environmental demands, security, and various aspects of design so as to become a more stable and more animal development. The film drawn up in this answer was that it is a great relief to provide a much smaller amount of money for new projects than before if we were considering traffic and how GDP was developed and it was good for me that this information was a basis for making it easier for us to discuss these matters on such facts and, of course, at the same time as a person suspected that all declarations of the most recent development years in the joint ideal period, the declarations were on misunderstandings based, of course, that we must consider this in the context of the community of what is being done and at the same time the most natural population has been the most impact of the urban population that it has on the effects of the over-growing, which is, of which, of which, of course, is, of which, of which, of course, is, of course, we have to support the community as much of the population that it is the most part of the population that we know. I don't think it's possible to go through this discussion except to mention energy and environment. It has made me feel that in the environment, such a focus, it is not always right to deal with the areas of the environment that are either a little evolved by themselves, such as the new energy flotation of cars where the development of foreign production, design and development of cars, the major manufacturer's means far more than the decisions we make on whether practical and when it is realistic to get rid of fossil fuels and to slow down the trend. Then, last December, a very strange decision was made to link two electric cars. But there's a debate I've spent way too many words in so far, and I hope that now at this end of the council, there's an increase in the amount, the size of the quatane that turns to the electric cars as promised, and then it's gone. But it's the climate. They will be solved only on the basis of research and development. We're supposed to support such work, but we're not supposed to waste our energy on banning plastic bags, putting cardboard pipes in the mouths of all the people, and so along the streets and at the same time, we're here to take responsibility for our own garbage and work here to bring in solutions based on the Congress resolutions of the Central Party which has been repeatedly submitted, first by the former senator, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and then by the new members of Congress where we watch to use our high-tech solutions, in terms of waste disposal. We just see, I think it's on Copenhagen, where it's the cleanest house in the area, incineration, and skiing on the roof of this free country, so I'll only be dealing with the environment and energy in terms of the environment first and the climate. Then we must begin to resolve to put the energy and money where we're most useful, not to pursue virtualism in these materials. Then, when it comes to the energy problem, it's a pleasure that we finally have a 2016 tough game plan to take care of, as it turns out. However, I would like to help you to understand that it is unacceptable that the framework plan is being discussed during the Senate's final days and after the completion of council agreements with seven of eight members of Congress was signed, there is quite a big change in the form of a committee of more parts of environment and transport, which is actually not all. It's a big part of it, but it's only part of the council and the cooperation in this room. Then I think it can have a negative effect for a long time than it does for the energy level itself. Of course, it's very special at the same time as Western Europe calls for energy and must become more energy to break free from the power of Russian plus Russian business, both in the form of oil and gas, we're at home, not just ban oil processing in the national base, but banning the investigation. Of course it'll fall. This is so crazy if we just look at our uncle in Norway who just weeks ago gave away, if I recall 54, a new study and a new access license for oil 54 new permits. At the same time, we're here in some idiotic way not to study. We are if there are some privileges enjoyed by Iceland, the Icelandic people, the access to renewable energy is being made, and I think we are somehow getting closer to this privilege that I allow me to call with a measure of disrespect at the same time as the nations that we tend to look for and compare with us are doing everything they possibly can to increase energy production and do everything at great costs from the state funds of the countries to increase the share of green energy. Then we'll work our way here in Iceland. There are four main points to establish a structured program through the council when a frame plan is taken care of. Every category of innovation will be taken into consideration. However, there is no such project as a protective party when possible. We have to somehow get out of this because if we're going to get on a horse's high horse that if there's some ills about people worrying about climate and warming, and if there's any belief that the action that's being taken is having some effect, we can't make it easy on the use of the energy resources we have here in our backyard. We can see how many good sources of water are available, ruined just how many good geothermals we've got, and it's some privileged blindness, so I'll use a term that I may not have. They're not trained enough to be used. But I'm going to allow myself to be used in this context. It is some kind of privileged blindness to reject our role in producing green environmental energy. We only see the effects it has on galtoman paying off, e.g. that suddenly falls in billions that no one expected because of an increase in aluminium prices. Not only are we producing green energy that can be produced in Iceland but it is the world's greeniest aluminum to be proud of this, not always running away and trying to talk ourselves down as many people do I think that the message that I want to put into this discussion is: we have to put more focus on valuable things and this together is positive in all respects, I allow myself to say, of course, because it's like that without any valuable creation, without a strong company that can pay a good salary, return money, invest and all this together without them, it's going to be no welfare in this society. There will be no better welfare and health systems will not become a more advanced educational system, etc. It all depends on us using our country's resources, using our own intelligence, making them the best of what we have. If we don't, it's empty business to talk about being critical of the fact that this and the rest of the budget is being reduced to 5 years of age or to the budget of each year. We have to put the focus on a valuable creation. That's the only way to go. Of course, there are a few factors that or a few of the sides, a financial plan that would agree with these matters. I would particularly like to mention the issues of older people and the residence homes and the lack of space there and how badly we have been able to carry out the goals set out and have somehow lived on but never made it, and we just know who we are from our rural society and closer to that it is everywhere the same story everywhere. People get older, they don't get into a home until well, that's not what I'm saying. But our condition and physical health have become very poor, and this is not the environment that we want to create the older citizens of this country and while people are off to their posts and reach their tails for the building of dwelling homes, they must increase the variety of services that enable people to live with dignity in their homes for a time when space is available. But somehow, we're in the same place with these matters, unfortunately, and with so many other health systems in our system, that during the recent years, there has been little to do but progress. There is no other indication, but that there is actually going to be one, and inside these systems, there is an excessive waste, just as we know of the discussion of the so-called efflux problems at the Land Hospital, don't waste time going over what it means. We all know this, but there is a precious leak of value over everything that does nothing but harm both physically, mentally, and financially, both in the homes of our country, in businesses, and in government funds. That's what I'd like to say. Now toward the end of this talk, I want to mention brief housing and organizational matters. I think there would have been a great improvement, probably the only change in the Board of Directors to improve, that the organizational matters have been added to the same Ministry as rurals. Organizational affairs, humanitarian activities, and rural affairs have been submitted to the same Ministry, but it also requires the use of the coordination involved in improving the system. Nothing gets better when the system is all under the same hat if the system is not fixed. This is what we need to do in order to achieve what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, that we must make projects easier, both large and small public projects, as well as private resources, e.g. for the construction of the land around which there is so much to be needed during these years. Then honor will be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u101	Madam President. Now that we discuss a financial proposal for the year 20231⁄2027, we can only begin by putting this into context under the circumstances. We will discuss this after the council was due to be completed this big matter that the council would have liked to spend several days working properly, as experience shows that financial programmes have often failed if perhaps the council had been given a better time to go through them through them. But this time it is very, very late, and the council has very little space, actually, the opportunity has been composed by most members of the council to discuss this matter, such as so many others who remain unsupervised at this council, financial programs, even though it has been established, but this time it has not been established by this government. There may be a number of reasons. Of course, it should not be taken lightly that a pandemic in which society was, in fact, much out of touch for two years, had its share, but before and after that, the plans of this government have not been put to the test, and financial programs have often been used. He was primarily to explain what the government would like to do in the long run and to bring more difficult action, saving, and such in the future, but can, especially in the leading of elections, as the examples prove, spend more money on short - term projects. It is very interesting to see a table here in this synonym, which describes how the government in the light of changing circumstances is going to save in various ways than to save once as often as possible after the next election. It is easy for a government to save for a future government or to describe plans for post-election savings but perhaps harder to bear responsibility to save for a shorter period of time. This is how we, Mrs. President, in this table I referred to, that things such as state's highest administration, foreign affairs, transportation and communications, especially culture, art, sports and youth work, high school, college levels, other schooling, administrative, education and child care, nursing and rehabilitation services, are to include examples that are going to take place in five years or so. Meanwhile, the government intends to move on, but as far as he can, unless, in the light of changing circumstances and circumstances, it will be changed. But because the war in Ukraine is specifically referred and for good reason, it began a war, unfortunately not this last week. It's been going on for four months now, and that's why it's odd that the government is now presenting this proposal that it presents as something that has been quickly set up to cope with unexpected situations before the war and the consequences it has had in Iceland and other Western countries. It had already become evident that the government's plans did not work out. There was already an inflation to form, and a business was already in trouble because of the great increase they had been facing since that government began almost, but this is presented as it is. This suggestion will lead to handling such a special situation. However, the response to inflation, the excessive inflation of last year's losses, and the likely even greater inflation of the next year's losses, by raising an even greater price on the inhabitants of the country, who receive less pay for their wages for goods and services. There's a bit of a peculiar approach to this government. At the same time, it has not taken the task of meeting the public by reducing the spells on what it could be done and has been done, indeed, in various European countries, to form the large laws now on fuel, and it is important to bear in mind that fuel prices do not affect homes only on people who need to get their way to a car and have a lot of influence on home loans. As a result and as a result, so on. This actually affects the entire economy. Energy costs are spreading. The increase in energy costs is likely to spread more than most others quickly through the economy. All energy is involved in the transport of goods and goods because of the services and dental wheels of the economy, anointed with energy. Although Iceland and I are so lucky to have a lot of renewable energy, we use electricity to produce most of the electricity and can warm up 90% of the land's houses with geothermals. This does not change the fact that fuel is simply a source of material in the economy, such as that the government has progressively increased taxation, fuel expenditures, and thus actually reduces the provisional resources of its households once enough fuel has been purchased, thereby increasing its various products and services, and increasing all these green expenditures. Madam President. No end to what people can invent of new fees and, apparently, income stocks in the government's opinion, just call themselves green and use it as an excuse for raising the budget on the public, or at all, all of these increases and, of course, new charges of inflation, inflation rates in the community, so that now this massive inflation is coming, including: Because of the war state in Europe, it is very strange that the government should not even consider minimizing this additional taxation that could immediately have a significant effect which, as mentioned earlier, would soon spread throughout the economy and including. retake the increase of securable loans. We also see in this program what we have seen over and over in government plans and always been waiting for a change in promises made even years ago. In particular, there are two assurances made by older citizens that the decline would be reduced but the impairments of certain impairments and their rights. I personally promised that in 2014, June 17, here in the East, the government would correct the interests of older citizens and deal with these failings that had been placed in the earlier season when economics were under attack when major economic measures were due to occur, if we saw a country with a state's status. These measures, the successful ones, I think better than anyone dared hope, but this promise has not yet been fulfilled to older citizens. Yet, that has been repeated several times, including the current maximum. The secretary of finance sent such promises in mail for the last election but still lacks absolutely that in this five - year project of government alone one year will be met with older citizens and their share will be adjusted. The other thing I've felt was missing over and over in this government. Actually, Madam President, I must mention more, probably still, but these are the two that I would like to start with. The other point of the two that I wanted to start with is regional development in the country that has been completely neglected by a group of lawsuits in the history of this government. Yet, it can be found in many of these statements that it is important to invest in and in other areas of the community without the particular context of this proposal. However, the importance of supporting the development of transport, electrical energy, infrastructure, and such investments is notably practical. But then nothing happens in it. We only get year after year, and a new five - year program that talks about the importance of things like cohesion and transportation. But that doesn't happen. It is as if they either don't believe what they say or don't plan to do with it other than flaunt it again that in the future there will be a way in which this might be done. This point is related to what I think, and I've been told about it. I know, Madam President, but it won't be too often said because it doesn't sort of get better since I got into politics or ever since I got the government before I started politically, the main problem with finance, plans in the state, is that men don't look into their plans well enough, to the long - term and to the overall effect. To illustrate what I'm saying, give an example of one more trip because, as I mentioned, I've talked a lot about it. At that time, governments seem to find it very difficult to calculate the benefits of working in practical projects that save citizens money, projects that promote valuables, and so on, because it cannot be put into accurate numbers. However, humans place a precise number on the cost of making the move. But because it is difficult to tell exactly what it will bring, although it is practical, as it is accepted here. It is simply overlooked in many cases. It's all mixed into so many things, including The first example I mentioned about the status of older citizens. In this case, it is considered a clean loss for the State to allow older citizens to work longer to form or to reduce their efforts to work longer and thus reduce their losses. The same is true of other elderly citizens who suffer from poor health. It is somehow viewed as reducing these trials as a complete loss for the State. Not to be taken into account is the motivation for the older citizens to work more, create more valuable things for society, use their experience and knowledge, pay taxes anymore, many factors that make real money to the State. But it's just focused on one side and on both of these factors that I specifically took for the position of older citizens and the settlements. Then I would think of government and decision - making changes very much if people allowed themselves to estimate the benefits of doing everything in the country in order to work together as a whole and as a team, the huge increase in value that would come out of it, or the amount of money they needed to save the community from restructuring large areas or increasing the population's income from reducing the unfair decrease in older citizens. If a person is to make wise decisions, he needs to look at the overall picture and consider the long - term effects. There has been a great lack of it. Speaking of looking ahead, the government now assumes very significant economic growth and shows here in a table that the estimate of economic growth in Iceland is 4.6% in 2022, 2.7%, 2023, and 2.2% 2024 other predictions. It's from Iceland's Secret Bank and the average analyst, as it is said here, are very much the same. And what is the reaction to the government? They're the ones I described in the beginning, increasing the budget for the public at the same time as inflation increases and economic growth decreases. Then there are new spells for working people in Iceland and, in fact, more people, because the various expenditures continue to rise, and they are now actually counting. It seems that the government has particular reason to believe that it will continue to raise its expenses. However, in the book Change Directive, the President's permission states: As considered, economic outlooks have changed considerably since the original strategy was submitted, but now it is assumed to be considerably higher inflation than it was based on the current National Institute of Economics of Iceland and therefore clear that a proposal is made to realize this. In that light, there is a suggestion to update the plan. Changes in the majority of them will take into account both the income and the remuneration aspects of the schedule. It is also aimed at making good use of the economy. You'll read it again. Madam President. It is also aimed at using the eco-efficiency system to cut down faster than expected according to the money policy's aim to reduce inflation by reducing growth in the economy. There's one at another corner. On the one hand, there is expected to be a very significant decrease in economic growth. It is well said that economic growth is considerably reduced, however, there is talk of making the most of it in order to increase the costs of public safety, the dollar charges, e.g. In particular, the committee here published a table of crowns, numbers, charges, updated with regard to projections, prices. 2023.3 billion progressively rises to four several specific remunerations. There's more to it than what the state can invent new fees, as I did to talk about earlier. However, what is referred to here as a few special remuneration changes take place in a period of 2.7 billion dollars. 6.5 billion, and so on. I simply can't figure out the other side of the government's plan for dealing with inflation by adding even greater pressure to the common people, victims of inflation, and trying to make good use of the cycle as it is called at the same time, and predicting a growing profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u102	Madam President. I'd like to be here in a slightly larger way than I'd like to contribute to transportation and communication. This has attracted my considerable attention, and this was done when the financial programme was proposed to be between 1923 and 2027 C.E., the funds for transportation and communications dropped by 14.4%. I'm very involved in government management, and I'd appreciate it if there was a 14.4% reduction in spending on a number of government business interests. But I feel very bad to see a 14.4% recession over a five - year period of public financial support, which is the largest proportion of construction and maintenance. There would be a real need to expand. Then they say, and I'm sure they'll say the same. There's too much to do in society right now. There are no contractors and temporary increases now will certainly be due to increases in prices, but the prices of contractor services are primarily, as I entered my speech earlier, to increase because the market is so unpredictably predictable. You do not have the ability to make progress in growing, making small and medium-sized contractor companies equal to large, large, etc. This does not succeed as long as the situation is as low as the situation is, and then in what way the government's construction and especially road structure has been new or the approach has been and that it is estimated in 223 51.6 billion in transport and communication, transportation and communication, and in 2027 44.2 billion. This is, in effect, a reduction in this period of annual expenses by 7.4 billion cubic feet per year, especially 7,446 million per year if we compare in 2023 and 2027 14.4%, respectively. How does this message sound sad to this constantly singing of the greatest projects of all time, the greatest projection of all time? It doesn't have a mind to do with it. You just can't read anything else out of these pills. We will see how the plans have been carried out that have sometimes been explained to the forwarding of transport expenses. Then it has been used to explain that there is so much that is added to the so - called cooperation of projects. It goes very well for the last few years, and unfortunately, the very first task expected to be carried out is not working well on the basis of the specific legislation. Then there are other factors that will be added to the various challenges. It's the poison in all of this that we're in constant action. Therefore, we do not receive any more powerful contractors because it does not bind the money necessary to become a prominent company contractor. If this is like the host of the public projects, then there will be extra leadership, bigger work, and a project will make it easier for them to plan. Otherwise, we'll be stuck in a place where there's a disturbance in other aspects of society that's going to get out of control in road construction, and then they'll think they're holding their hands. There will be a collection of resources, which can be cut down in accounting procedures, as is now being done by the adjustment of more of the legal committee. This is the same message that has previously occurred from this government, which is now in its fifth year. It is this gradual spending on transport and communication, which, of course, is largely to transport. Of course, this group of subjects overlaps with counseling now after the last session, so communications have entered university, and innovations, transport procedures, into the secretary's infrastructure, but as I say, the main weight is in the transport sector. At the same time, in a talk earlier today, there is a plan to extend a 2012 contract to support public transport in the capital area up to a billion each year, 1000 million a year, a price added to 2012, if I recall correctly, and now there are plans to extend it by 12 years. I just can't believe there's a plan to extend that contract 12 years to billions of years a year, upcoming to the price. When the results of the first phase of the first ten years of this project are no. When the agreement was made in 2012 At that time, about 4% of the bus - transport journeys in the capital area were on the bus. When figures were examined for 2021, that was 4%. It wasn't. There's been no success. Nobody. Now there is a plan to add 12 years, 12 billion plus compensation. It just happens automatically somehow. I haven't had much discussion here at the Congress Hall, even though I have ever tried to call out for it about this deal. But if a secretary of transportation, or inside a minister, as it is called today, is in a position to establish a contract of over 12 billion to strengthen a bus in the capital area on the basis of a project that has not returned in ten years. That's enough. As the People say, there is now, it would be good to resort to other tasks that would be even more beneficial and likely to be successful. Maybe I won't say that. Don't leave this precisely, but not somewhere that the definition of insanity is saying that it is doing the same thing again and that it calculates in a different way. There's something in the real world that seems like you, if it is similar to making a contract between billions of years and 12 years when a contract between billions of years and 10 years of age has not turned up 4.0% to 4.0%, I think, in fact, when the window in the latest travel process of the report, I think it's a failure. Then, in fact, I think it's getting smaller this year of the old contract. It has to be on short notice, it reminds me that I see the numbers 3.8% travel so that after 10 years of a billion a year to support the bus. There is no success, even less use if my memory fails to betray, so there are such factors in the government that, of course, amass taxpayers. It's a feeling that money is being badly used to atone some groups, this billion dollars support. He is at the same time that Busto board decides to limit services because funds are not available to support basic services. At the same time, we're looking for 100 billion operations on the basis of a city line that no one knows what the real cost and how to drive anyone to the future. All of this leaves a feeling of ill treatment for the public tax. Then it becomes an area where the total tax collection is second to the highest level in the OECD countries. In terms of the means by which pension systems are financed, so to speak. We have to do better with the public tax and the transportation. This is where I had to mention this. This deal is truly remarkable. But, Mr President, I have a few more things to ask of you to put me back on the rosary. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u103	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson only set me on fire when he called the city line, the coffee, and all that has to do with it. But I'll have to wait a little while to go further into it. There's something else I have to say about that, because I had thought of discussing the agricultural sector specifically in financial planning and in terms of more of the legal committees. In fact, I have often pointed to the way the government's attitude toward farming is presented in a financial program since it began. From the first financial program, a very decisive view of agriculture is shown if you just look at the figures, for year after year, a five - year plan has assumed that the different classes required by the State to provide products or services to these classes to cover their costs of pay per year. In all cases, I think it is safe to say, there has always been a consistent estimate of progressive expansion due to higher prices, partly due to dressbacks, etc. except in one case, except in the case of agriculture. It was already in the first plan of this government that contributions to this article, the other of the articles that the community relies on and buys large amounts of service, would progressively decline each year, and then have sometimes developed an incident in which a person becomes the one who puts up with the hope that the government will appreciate the importance of this article and be willing to put forth effort to maintain it, as well as to promote it, on a number of primary points and suggestions on other articles and the latest example. There is no need for a wide variety of factors, as it is said here to the greater part of the budget, that there is not much need to be said about the reasons why food production and food safety are now being considered important. But what is it, Madam President? Actually, the same thing we've seen years after this government. We look at the land uses of the past year in 2023 families2027. This has not increased as much as expected of most others, but it is expected that in the next year, they and the next year, even more, after 2025, still more in 2026, more than still more than 2027, once more and again, the support of the State of the United States will drop while further support is expected for more and less, as the government has to buy services and products. Nevertheless, a majority of the budget committees allow themselves to be somewhat credible in their opinion that it is a reason to quote directly under the headline of the 12th Environment Programme, with the permission of a president: The majority of them celebrates the food secretary's work on the issue of action and the definition of national food security. Mrs. President, who can be referred to here? Is it a run? The committee called Steingrímur, the son of Sigfússon, whose next impression I am able to make has not yet come true. There are severe threats to food production and the rise of food prices, all of us know this and have discussed this for several months with no political response. There is no reason why it is obvious that the future will reduce food supply and that prices will rise. There is a possibility that lack will continue for the next year. This trend will significantly affect the public's standard of living, which needs to spend a larger portion of its income for food. All of this is true, Madam President, but why doesn't this understanding appear, this vision of policy, the plans of the government? Why? On the contrary, the government decides to continue to raise the cost of, including, the U.S. government. Food and all such green things, as well as extra agricultural spells, increase requirements for the article and the food manufacturer in general but lower the donations if they are, if they really believe why they are responding, and so says the project: It is no less important to protect the manufacturer's capacity and the manufacturer's capacity to manufacture, still sounds good. It is often referred to as a lack of production and production capacity, with an alarming increase in the price of being involved. Is the condition of agricultural production extremely fragile. Clearly, it is not possible to wonder at all the cost increases in consumers, but it is here to describe things that may be obvious but are asked: Why all these years the government has not responded, not only that it has failed that the Central Party has repeatedly proposed a global food supply in Iceland, and how to strengthen support and advance into agriculture and food production, the most widely published plan for this group of themes, at least For decades, when I've studied the overall program, where everything plays together, the overall program that works. What has been the fate of this arrangement? The larger part that expresses itself in a way that I describe here has made it disappear here at the council, put it to sleep on a committee, as it is called a year after year, and then continues in the opinion of a greater part of the legal committee: The greater proportion reminds us that in this year's budget, some 750 million were submitted. K. to meet the result of the occurrence of the occurrence of an event. Specific measures must be taken to determine whether and how to support the primary manufacturers in order to maintain the ability and willingness to produce. More directly, then, it is for food ministers to make good use of other means of making the situation very serious and unattainable in order to use laws and regulations for that purpose. The majority of them do not consider dealing with this problem merely a problem of farmers and deforestation. In order to improve food security and protection, food production has to be maintained on a much broader basis in the country. I'm not from the fact that some of these phrases are just adopted from the suggestion that we've been talking about year after year and that we've probably been put to sleep and sometimes made fun of it. But now no one is making fun of more food security and more of the legal committee in this way than then does anything else. Supporting financial programs as yet as one of the main missions is expected to have the uniqueness of receiving less and less support year after year, and then, at the same time, there are high - quality statements on the importance of this article, the risk of continuing increase in food prices, the importance of food security, and so on. But there's nothing to do about it. It's because it's all about packaging, rather than content with this government, all a matter of declared plans rather than real human activity. The same is true in the agricultural business, as in other cases, that if you are serious about these statements, if they are really going to be successful, the measures need to reflect it and you have to at least To be prepared to abandon a permanent contract in support of agriculture in Iceland. I think it's safe to say that the situation calls for more of the committee's parts to say. In fact, it's being done, not in harmony with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u104	Madam President. I'm here in my speech to enter 25 nurses and the rehabilitation room. At any rate, with the permission of the president, a paragraph on the first page of this team will be read on page 389, under the permission of a president: Underscoring: The largest project of his field is the continuation of a nursing home with both new nurses. 364 new air space and 137 improved space will be expected to be used in the year 2023•226226. I have to admit that this paragraph will hit me pretty well, and this would be quite another success, but we've been seeing the past few years in terms of nursing growth and recovery progress, but then it's just a corrosion of 3 cm. The bottom of this page on page 386 is framed to the next five years, 1923, 24, 5, 6, 7 and 2027, so that the portion of budgeting the budget is 7.3 billion in 2020 and 1.6 in 2027. The estimated investment contributions fall by 77.5% in the programme period. I'm not aware that it is such a flood of new nurses coming into business next year that it explains that the estimated donations in an investment in a nursing home and the recovery space from 7.3 billion in the next year to 2.1, immediately in 2024, then 1.6, 1.6. It's just the first year of this program, which has some real number here, 7.3 billion, 2.1 years and then 1.6 out of the programme period, a 77.5% reduction in projections planned for an investment in nursing and rehabilitation space. I must admit that I would be interesting to have an explanation of the government's plans in 2023,2027, which is the period under the use of 364 new nurses and reciprocate 137, which is not much less expensive than it is to build a new space, so together it should be 400 correct 500, most certainly not. 501 space is probably set in order to cover 500 total numbers, so it looks good in 501 spaces, and it leaves 7.3 down to 1.6 billion a year. This and the total contributions to nursing and rehabilitation services are reduced over the programme period, which, of course, is quite incredible if we look at the status of this category and the development of the nation's age compositions, which result in a small drop in the amount of inputs during this period of small while the estimated investment contributions fall by 77.5%. So once again, it seems that the mind does not follow, and it is really unsatisfying that these things are now under the hammer of a Senate block, where most people want to get home on vacation and answers to these things. Although the expression is now extended, it does not match the sound and picture in these tables with the text. If the agency responsible for these building factors involved in the development of a nursing home trusts in these activities to ensure 501 new space during the planned period, while investment investment capital investments fall by 77.5%. Then we need to let that institution work more than it does today. So, there's some kind of record in the use of funds in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u105	Madam President. As I promised earlier, I will come to the city line of the adventure and will trace briefly what this new government plan will tell us about it and what that case will tell us about one thing and another that this government has been doing. But I was going to add a little more about the agricultural process, on food production in Iceland, because it is not enough to limit donations to these important articles and, without question, to reduce the value of agriculture, agriculture, agricultural investment, as if it were mentioned in the Committee with one and another transport, more is being made available to the community, the deposit clearly, the sound of goods and goods, based on a foundation around the country that is invaluable in reality. But the Ministry of finance may be used to value money. It is not enough that this practical investment in agriculture is missing and that it differs from that of humans. And then there's the rest of it. It is constantly being put on new farms, and I'm not just talking about the huge increase in the prices that the industry is facing right now, and I'm actually calling for an emergency response when the fertilizer and other resources rise as dramatically as has happened in the last few years. That's what they're talking about, isn't it? I am also talking about the conscious decisions made by the government to squeeze the article, e.g. by postponing in discussions with the European Union and others on customs, in a way that the European Union would never do to those involved but, in some way, repeatedly, especially in notorious toll agreements from a few years ago, postponing almost one - sided without major objections, in other words, weaken the position of the industry. At the same time, agricultural requirements, equipment, materials used, equipment used, the design of buildings, the structure, etc. are constantly being increased. etc. All these stamps that are constantly increasing, and as a result of an article based on the families of this country, they have to compete with a factory farm in a foreign country that they're not following, all these requirements set on the local article are now being added to the additional import, as it was well discussed, nothing long before, on unfrosted, and the prepared food still fell to the competitiveness of the article here. And why am I going back to that one more trip? Because the comparison is so striking, one on the other hand, the comparison of what governments actually do so that descriptions such as I went over to the majority of the legal committees. There's no connection between us. It's all formal and virtual. But if the situation and the crisis in Iceland are in and has actually been for some time, even before these latest difficulties were over, if it does not arouse real awareness over writing some lines in the Commission's opinion, if it does not result in the government's doing something that matters, then I will probably do nothing to encourage both the government and one member of the greater body to act on something seriously in the interest of agriculture, because the community is more and less dependent on the rest of our ability to run strong food production here. And now she's in trouble after providing us with food, keeping us alive for 1,200 years. And now we need action, not just a few lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u106	Madam President. In this speech, I would like to step into the 28 subjects of the elderly. It is here, with the permission of the president, in the box on page 414: The future vision of the material field is that elderly elderly people enjoy quality of life in their later years and can earn their income, especially room from pension funds, with work and/or special property of the private pension money. These are high and good goals and sound good, but again and again, they do not always seem to follow through. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance has repeatedly stated in the pontta that arrangements for this age group have been made in recent years, but this does not tell the whole story, and unfortunately, the proposal that we in the Central Party have made for a approach to everything that we in the Central Party have fought for ever since the election was the first time at the council, that those who have the health and ability to have the health and the ability to obtain a pension age will be able to continue working without being subjected to the same cruel penalty for the impairment as it is now. You see, there is a point. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson came in earlier. It is the way the estimate is made on costs, and it is often forgotten to take into account income or savings as part of certain factors, a procedure that requires some cost, and in this relationship I think, and it has irritated the person who stands here for a very long time, how reluctant governments are to look at the secondary effects of looking at the secondary effects of the increased employment of people who have been exposed to the age of pensions. It's not. It can also be social, and keeping the body in such a way that I think absolutely certain, and it has actually been shown by reputable scholars that the real cost of a public fund by reducing these losses will probably be no and most likely negative when considering the tax pay produced by those who otherwise would not be at work or in one way or another, taking care of something in the black economy. We are to make it possible for older citizens to continue using their energy as long as they wish to do so. We're supposed to make it attractive, so it's not a constant battle with the system where every dollar the insurance will provide the person with the money he created because it is, of course, that is, for those who are working in the workplace after a pensioner's age. They're paying their taxes. They are likely to have a smaller load on the health of the country, a spiritual feeling but better, and I think that it can be said: "It's all because of good, and it can only help to allow space to get down on the job. But there's been an increase in this holiday goal. But it's still so far too low, too low, and we in the Middle East made our proposal in the pre-election that five times this target standard, if I recall the numbers correctly, and that would have been a positive influence for state funds, though in the Ministry of State. No doubt, if human efforts are made to calculate the high cost of this, then the cost of the rest of the system is the one that will remain the same. However, it is the income at a convention that people forget to take into account, and in my next speech, I may want to include in it only this factor that focuses on how it is necessary to view the overall impact of action in order to increase the likelihood that we are making the right decisions each time and to make the most of the tax decisions. A respectable president. Please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u107	Madam President. I had promised to discuss only the city line that is so vivid to many of the things that this government is up to with the government's financial resources. As a review, in fact, during the last terms, this government began to finance the Central Community in Reykjavík, leading up to the largest and basically one of the election campaigns of the mayor's elections, and it was decided to set 50 billion on this project so as to begin with, although uncertainly the costs of the entire project would be unclear, the exact cost of this phenomenon would be unclear. I'm not talking about double the bus system, and though it's unclear how the government was going to finance it. But there were some ideas, including The idea of taking advantage of Iceland's bank sales to pay this adventure for the city or making use of the benefits of selling the Feltland, one of the most valuables, or these two assets had the most valuable property in the state. So much was the government willing to work for the mayor's section, now perhaps limited thanks for it, but still the project will be started, and we will see in this program that it is simply assumed that the government will continue to pay despite all the statements and I will allow me to say the problems where we critics of this case learned that each year the Council would accept the contributions. That's why there's nothing to worry about. The General Assembly would need to confirm the contributions each year. I think that we all have more and less here at the council, and we have come to realize the nature of these statements. I think most senators must realize how this works. Government simply puts the lines and the more part on hand and chooses that this is the government's setting up the lines to continue on the same path, to attack one of the most unfavourable projects on transport, an eternity project that will cost the city's money, probably if it is available to pay something for this mission to go into the infinite business of this double bus system. At the same time, people wonder about the practicality of making transport reforms, not investing accordingly, but simply continuing to pay. The number of jobs around this city line is always increasing, no matter how profitable it is. But there are always more and more people who have access to it, and the State is able to appoint several men to hold on to this and have done so and just intend to keep on paying and paying without preconceiving the basics that are constantly saying that it is such an important part of the new law on public finance that people should be aware of the cost. You have to figure out how much business will cost, etc. All of this set aside in the case of a city line, which is another example of boxing, the political bitch that identifies this government. The desire to present a language that sounds good with a good signature is not to be discussed if the government can get the mayor of Reykjavík to agree with him and to commend himself on the contents. Then there is a different conclusion, and he described it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u108	Madam President. As I said at the end of my final talk, I planned this underscoring assessment of the secondary effects of the bill. There was a significant debate with so-called successful bills, the Minister of Child Affairs during the early term, Minister of Social Affairs, where at that time it was directly identified in the bill's report that the case was not financed at that point. This is a series of executives, which specifically explained that it was all right with the Agency members. They wouldn't have to worry about it because the money they paid for this action would be so much for the future that they paid off many times. I'm sure it's a lot of money, except for the obvious, that it's right and good and everybody and I imagine that most people are supposed to live with children of this country, a good environment, and a good society to grow up in. But there the argument was that there was so much interest in this that they did not have to worry that the matter was not financed at that point. All right. As I discussed here in my first speech, so we are beginning to talk about raising an older citizen's holiday goal. It seems that older citizens' private markets are never to mention anything different than a straight line coming from someone who is not the calculator, says expenses. The cost of this is way too much, way too much, it's just expenses. But it must not look at the secondary effects of my previous talk, the secondary effects of both increasing activity, improved physical and mental health of older citizens who want and who are able to use their services after a lifetime. You can't look at the whole thing, it's against the law. Then, probably two weeks ago, a petition was made at the council asking that the bill be held supremely. Minister of Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, who is a cultural and business minister, will still excuse the confusion of the new helicopters by the end of the first assembly of this terms. Hv. A senator of culture and business ministers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ministers of Culture and Business Ministers showed up here at the council with a bill for reimbursement of production costs to films in Iceland. The head of the Economic and Business Committee interviewed and spoke on the basis of the overall impact of a bill so positive that it justified the budget that came into existence. We must establish some rule on when we can look to the overall impact, the secondary effect, and when it is not. Of course, the rule is to be that it is always taken in general, what is being discussed. But as the rule now seems to be between the existing government parties, it seems to apply only to the minister of the Action Party when it comes to seeing the overall impact, not at all the Minister of the Independence Party. But all I have to do is wet my head with regard to the prime minister of the left movement of the green bid. I don't remember right now things that this applies to, but it's not acceptable that when the Ministers of the Progress Party come up with the bills to be justified by a secondary effect. But when it comes to creating bills, as I say, allowing older citizens to make room for their workers to continue using them, they can only watch the fees. This is neither fair nor normal, and it is not understandable, and it is wise to pursue Kingdom interests. Madam President. I'd like you to put me back on the rosary. There are some things I would like to include in this discussion. It will speak to a noble seventh.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u109	Sigmundur PresidentGunnlaugsson when you've already told the city line a, you have to say, "Straight Sunway. " It is, of course, a very striking comparison, a plan of both the city authorities and, in fact, the government or at least. the actions of these people, on the one hand of the city line that is driving on all fronts and money, were thrown into this without knowing what it costs and then the swimming path that has been decades ago, to be one of the most efficient means of transportation possible, which is only to be found here. The chapter on transport in this financial program does not provide much answers to the fact that the State is going to drive on the waterway. While generally talking about the economic benefits of transport, there is no quick effort to make sure that the government plans to continue the waterway of the project. Instead, the work of what is called cooperation and public transport institutions is emphasized. All right, you can do that, but this term, transport cooperative work. In fact, I think this same thing, even though it has been doubled here in the headline of cooperation projects and public societies, the same thing in the sense of the law. However, it is not least the advance group that speaks of a cooperation project in transport, probably because of the cooperation between members, especially those who have been there longer than since the last mayor's election or last elections, heard that the Agency was a teamwork team and associated with the team, and felt that it was a good idea to use this name and explain these tasks in that name without any apparent awareness of what this really means, and yet and again that the action is actually to support partnerships. Or what is now the main concern of the advance party at the end of the council? It's pushing against a case that was way too late, and it's way too bad to put down one class of people in Iceland, a cab driver, and in what kind of partners do this cab driver work, so I'll name just one example that works for a motor. What types of companies, motorists could look it up into the company file of an engine, a partnership, this team of partners, and other partners want to shut down and act with considerable intensity in this regard. Now at the end of Congress, at the same time there is vague talk about what they decorate by the name of transport cooperation projects, but do very little in the most practical and important means of transportation, as shown here in this financial plan than in the urban line. She gets her company in Reykjavík, and in fact, Madam President, she has to mention it in this context even if it's a little off the subject, but it has to do with paying up. The current mayor of Reykjavík declared that he was prepared to give the mayor the throne the point of the city advance section because it is more important to keep the city line going. In other words, in response to comments at the city line, the advance company received the mayor's seat in Reykjavík or went on some day. This makes up the interesting situation that not only the independent group in the government is financed. The main campaign for the Reykjavík Community is also purchased with a mayor's chair for the forwarding party. At the beginning of 2024, an honorary eighth is taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u110	Madam President. I want to step in there as long as possible. paritaprevir The case is Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I'm saving myself only what turns to Reykjavíkurburg this losserin, but I'd like here to talk briefly about the issues of unemployment and economic forecasts. This is shown in the panel of the most part signed. All agents of the greater part. Yeah, yeah, there's six of them. There are only three diplomats in the Honorable Fund after the Commission was appointed in the early election. But this is to be expected on page three of the Committee's list of major unemployment issues, if we just watch Iceland's Habitat Assessment to use the UN Bank assessment. The late bank is assuming that unemployment in 2022 will be 4.3% during 2023 in 2024, or 4.2%, as well as 4.23/4, 4.3% to the next three years. Something's breaking in our system when what seems to be becoming a natural unemployment is becoming considerably higher than it was for a long time. Then we watch unemployment. The Habitat projections are very consistent with the South American Bank projections, and the average investigator is there on a similar rol, higher to a short time, and a slightly lower in length over 4%. It's called from all angles to more workers when there's no shortage in it. Travel services could, in the context of the objects, definitely take over almost indefinitely now. There is a great shortage of construction and more and more in the service sector. Then watch the hospitals with their own design, the problems of high school, elementary school, and so forth, and the streets, and everywhere we face problems, but there are predicting more than 4% of unemployment constantly for the next three years. We have to look at what causes it is some change that is becoming in Icelandic society if this is the case that I think we have to try to climb in and wind down because we know the effects of long-term noncooperative activity. They are very negative, not only physically but especially spiritually for those newcomers, and we have to start trying to go on these facts, based on a discussion of what is causing men to think that long - term work is so much more than we have seen in the past on a comparable year - long trip that lacks work for every corner. And because if this is the case, if the explanation is that there is too little difference between the benefits and the wages these persons may receive for their jobs, then the point we have to consider is specifically and seriously. If the situation is that there is a turning point toward the health of the nation that causes this, since these groups may end up with disability following a period of unemployment, then that is what we need to consider in particular. However, there is tremendous effort to stop this trend before it becomes such a permanent arrangement and a permanent beat in Icelandic society, since each percentage of these materials costs billions of dollars. So there's a lot of work to figure out. And in view of the numbers available here, we must here. But before this talk of mine, I want to correct myself here from my first talk. When I quoted a second, I did. paritaprevir Stefán Stefánsson before, then identified as president of the Economic and Business Committee. Hv. paritaprevir Stefánsson is chairman of the professional committee, and I apologize for this indiscretion. A respectable president. Please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u111	Madam President. During my final talk, I discussed agriculture and transportation, and I focus on only the climate and the environment. All of this, of course, is closely connected, and obviously you get into the energy situation thereafter. But one thing that this government has been willing to spend a lot of money on without knowing what he's getting into earlier is climate presenting new plans there, no doubt designed to appeal to its supporters a party here in the government and to someone in the international community, which is done without a good explanation of how the funds are being gained. Clearly, the point is that the amount of money that is placed in the lawsuit marked it will be far more beneficial to us than we have seen in the government over time. There is not always a direct connection. It's not that long ago. At the council, the secretary of finance said that it would not just be enough to place more and more money on the health system, so it would not help unless the system was fixed. So, what can be said about the plans and promises of the government in these climates, which introduced plans to put 50 billion on climates without having any real answers to how to use this money so that, of course, the danger is that they go to the air in this sense and become unreasonable, and I go unsatisfactory. It's even mine. and not least that they will not be able to cope with climate, climate change as effectively as we could do here on the land by focusing especially on the strong infrastructure we have in environmental energy production and its expansion and technological development that can result. It is true here in this program that forestry and agriculture will continue to be supported, and therefore I rejoice. Of course, that's something. The best thing we can do in the environment is to grow the land and especially to grow forests. At the same time, however, more and more money is being spent in action, which actually works against the benefits we can achieve, to form by forestry, and there I speak, for example. of the restoration of wetlands, a special feature of these government spending teams. It allows huge interest in budgets year after year, and despite the development of some kind of fund that has been created to attack the canals and damage farms. It is very unclear what such a result is in climates, but it can even be negative. But like any other government fantasy, it does not interfere with spending money on such matters. Yet, it is obvious that planting trees in a land that has been partially dried brings far more results for climate, carbon binding than for planning to destroy the land and turn it into wetlands. It's all in the same book, Madam President. It is not a matter of making decisions based on content and real influences but on some outward show and bandage. But now I'm just getting through the entrance to my environmental coverage and asking for it to the highest degree. President putting me back on the rosary. He's got respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u112	Madam President. Here in my talk, I want to continue with what I came in earlier on the assessment of successful projects. It only comes in as a dog. paritaprevir The above reference to the Dizziness Way was made by Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunolsson. It has become obvious to all who know and, indeed, to most who have little knowledge of success, road construction, and traffic flows, that the waterway is the most profitable and most important work that the Icelandic government could accomplish by means of the entire Dizziness course would be the most profitable project available to us. In spite of this, the march of the project has been similar to the construction of Chef Forest. The only difference is that the Road of the Sun is still in progress and the highest. The inside minister allowed himself to make yet another agreement with the mayor, where the frame was framed in a process that caused it, or put the case in place, that if everything works out, if everything goes as in history, then the Sunway will be ready for traffic in 2031. It's almost a decade before this is our most profitable assignment, and it makes you think. We must have some way of building a decision-making system in our own ability to stand out with the same importance as that. Of course, we have been in the position that Reykjavíkurburg has placed all the stones that the city has found in its path from selling the construction site, selling construction land to the proposed land of land, swimming roads in organizing offline, setting down the portable hosting of time, which, of course, need to get their space as well as the strongest sink that I have seen under some of the most elegant houses that are right there on the road, the Dewways in the steam, the bottom, or up top. We're at that spot, and there's a little bit of a bill about groundwork, air travel, air travel that's here to be paid for the end of the council. We're in a place where local societies are a little bit involved, like you, to be careful with their planning, the means of organization that is so important to them, and I'm going to let myself tell the charges. These are the nucleus of our country's rural society. That's the planning. At the same time, however, we did not arrive at an electrical line, the bill that was a core element when it came to reacting to the effects of the storm here in its time to support and strengthen the transport systems of electricity. We cannot succeed in carrying the most profitable road that we have probably ever been able to handle, which is the Daffy Way. We are in a situation where the policy of the airport is being driven out of the area when the city authorities do not see to it that, on the basis of an agreement to investigate the weather at the Hagsau test, they will be running away in the vicinity and will never be an airport in Havasun, at all times not on the basis of the basis of these tests. We just reiterate that we have to look for ways to get them to the point, but we don't spend decades making decisions like hamsters on a bicycle in the same bike.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u113	7. That's the north side. "Sigmur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Madam President. I have to start an environmental discussion in this financial programme, and there's a lot to do. I mentioned these beginnings only to discuss these events that the government tries to use in the environment to try to approach them in its promise to reduce the emissions of climate change and to bring back to all the money set in the Dam and in the plan to find a special programme for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 32 thousand to 52.47 tons of wetlands in the following year, and 257,000 tons in 2027, in spite of the fact that the shrink will increase from that 32,057 carbon levels in the to 2021, to 52.57 tons in the next year and 101,000, 257,000 tons in spite of the scientific evidence that this will actually increase, in some way, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, I'll allow myself to be allowed to be false. The government cannot establish the scientific confirmation of this number. Others have noted that these are numbers that did not work out, but something had to be done by a government in a country that is the most environmentally friendly in the world. However, almost all of their electricity is produced by renewable energy sources, or the government of this country is deciding to reduce greenhouse gas emissions more and faster than likely any other country, at least equal the most optimistic or eager of these things. And where was the space? All human activities, carbon dioxide emissions, or other greenhouse gases? Where's the space? Yes, this trick was invented to shovel in a ditch and to say that it was binding carbon dioxide and reducing emissions. This is a bit like putting a cap on a bottle that is empty and imagine it fills it again. But this is also really cheating, because the start of the government's original policy is not to improve because of this alleged emissions from vegetation, land so that something that was not taken into account at the original standards now should slip into the meantime to promote it on very questionable grounds, as I traced the above, that the country has more subtracted or added more greenhouse gases. Unfortunately, all of this is too vivid for the entire development of the government in the administration of the state. There's too much to do, and it's still a cause for what? Yes, premium bandages, declare targets at the expense of content and the actual effect of what is being done. We see this fully in the course of government policy and this financial plan not only with the money but with it earlier in nature. But, Madam President, I see my time is up again, and I'm just about to get started with the environment and ask you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u114	Northwestern District, Bergþór Ólafsson Madam President. I wanted to turn back my sights to the committee's committees for more of the legal committee. In view of the fact that the government that is now serving in its fifth year, this article is entitled to page eight: A project that the greater part highlights interesting things that are, of course, especially interesting ones. But there's this kind of thing, like the text written here, that has been set up by someone who has a new social security number and a whitewashed on the tasks of a prime period. But it says, with the permission of a president: Priorities must be cut off in financial frames instead of continually asking for additional funds for new projects. It is somehow this text as though it is written by Member States who are getting new to the project, not on behalf of someone in the fifth year here, but with the permission of a president: A review of the current budget needs further, said: Priorities need to be cut off within a financial frame, instead of constantly asking for additional funds for new projects. That's a great line. I just hope this knows well that we're looking at priorities and getting the most use out of the city's tax money, because it hasn't been prominent in the first four years of this government. It continues, with President permission: Therefore, it is important that government management be maintained over the next few years without delay. Yes, this is in accordance with the development of a digital Iceland that has succeeded. So that assignment is important. Restrainment of government over the next few years does not detract from digital evolution in public service. Rather, it contributes to it as a means of making better use of the money spent in the ministry, which is said to gain more for less. I just have to find a way to find out who wrote this fine text because there is nothing to see that these goals were in a special foreground for the first five years of this government. It's in the first room of four days. It's the way we're supposed to be dealing with taxes, but it's not how we see treatment on tax money, unfortunately. Now I just refer to what I mentioned here regarding this strange extension, which seems to be taking place in some form of quietness, that the project to provide a billion a year to support the increase in the number of road trips in the capital area where there is no success in a billion each year in the last ten years. Today, people suddenly feel that success is achieved by extending the project by 12 years. There's 12 billion that I'm afraid will have no effect on the way it's been going for the past ten years. But I'm glad it's in here that frames in with the thought that we should seek more out of the government. But I'm such a modest optimism because this government is not new, it's old. She's been sitting for five years now, and so far it hasn't been seen in their work. But then, with president's permission: To promote future growth and opportunity, the majority of them focus on achieving a much more targeted integration in order to disrupt certain constancys in various aspects of the infrastructure to disrupt certain resolutions. These are people who have been in charge for almost five years. Now they're going to break a certain resolution, a number of features of wood inside in five years. Why didn't they just do it right away? This is all a wonder, so this wonderful chapter that I encourage all Americans to read on page eight of the committee opinion under a basic task that the greater part stresses, it could have been written by the members of the Central Party. This is a great text, but the government hasn't acted in harmony with this in the last four and a half years. There's no evidence that there's going to be a change, but I hope there's some real transformation going on. Madam President. Is it just the beginning of this time that you turn to committee party more than that and ask you to put me back on the rosary?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u115	Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson refers to things I had received special attention and signed or marked in particular by the opinion of the greater body of legal committees. I may want to add something later, but I'm going to try to keep the threads. I was beginning to discuss the environmental phase of the financial programme, and I began to put it in touch only with agriculture and transport, and in my discussion on agricultural matters, I pointed out that there was a permanent contraction or subsection in support of that article. But in contrast, total support for agriculture is now or next year, next year, 27.5 billion, 19.27 billion, while total environmental production is 27.5 billion. And why does this thing blow, Madam President? On the one hand, because of what I mentioned earlier, the action in the environment is often in their influence. The result is often very vague, sometimes even harmful, while clearly aware of the effects or effects of at least established. I don't know if the Committee called will calculate that, but at least... fully clear how important agriculture is to Iceland's community and economy, but it's getting considerably less now than it's going to run into the environment. Yet, there are probably some of the best things that we can do in the environment, and this week we have new figures on how much it was saving on greenhouse gas emissions and how important it is for the environment that we make our own food as much as possible and eat theirs here at home, domestic food, so that this comparison of an article prepared to prove its value for citizens from land studies as early as the first continents come to Iceland, and then the packaging of the environments that are suitable for reporting and telling about 50 billion in climate change. The comparison of this is very striking. The comparison of how little respect a basic work article with many of the value given and then something with a very vague effect but the possibility of introducing corneas to meetings in foreign lands, how much respect this article will receive. It's really striking, Madam President. Now. There is more to it than that, and we have seen it in the past few years, especially in the last two years. There has been an urgent need to increase the cost of waste to the public, including the U.S. There is a tremendous increase in the cost of releasing minerals. But as with so many factors in this chapter, this may have the opposite effect on what is aimed at that if you have to pay a great deal of what you had to pay for, e.g. The possibility that this will simply be released in some parts of the world in other places there must be increased by minerals, dirt, stones, and so forth, some examples of how mismanagement and desirable approach, which, in fact, constitute an unfair spell on the common people, can lead to wrong conclusions compared with what was planned. Madam President. I feel that time is getting faster and faster and yet I'm just getting started by a phase of the environment. So he asks me to register again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u116	This Councilman of the Northwestern District, Bergþór Ólason, Madam President. To close this section that I came in here, one of the more important tasks focuses on the opinion of the majority of the branch committees on this matter. Then, with president's permission, it says: Yes, I ended up with this wonderful sentence that to promote future growth and opportunities, the greater part stresses the development of a much more targeted work to integrate a certain deterioration in various aspects of the infrastructure. There you must ask yourself, " Why hasn't the task been taken to disrupt a certain situation? ' Did it have to wait for an election? Didn't the government have four years to do that in the early stages? Let us, though, leave it to each other. Clearly, there is a change of attitude. But I kind of give it to myself that, since the more part thinks it's a reason to mention it specifically in its members, that the more part doesn't seem to be clear enough, this vision in the bill as it is available. But the next point, with the permission of the president, which gives the greater part, is: It is not all about the increase in government projects, it is about using the right methods and motivation to draw up the application into areas that society cannot afford to build up. That's a great sentence, and why did the government take five years to get to this place? In fact, it has an appeal from a large portion of the budget committee that may not see this clearly enough into the text of the bill. This, of course, is what we need to produce. It is that it is not always called for just an increase in money but, rather, a means of making more use of what we have received. As mentioned earlier in the discussion, it was a former surgeon, if I recall correctly, who said in a sense that no amount of money could be put into the medical system, but it would not work if the system was not established. That's what we're talking about in so many areas, it's a lot of places where the temperature goes on forever and will make it bottomless if the system is not fixed. That's what I find missing, that's the first year of this government in the new term, fifth year of the government, a conversation together, has taken much of the reorganization of the Board of Government with the seemingly high energy that has gone into it and all this focus, it has to be made quite quickly. Otherwise, you can only conclude that there is no special meaning behind this beauties. But I just reiterate that I encourage all who are interested in reading the entrance to the majority of the points presented here on page eight of its beginning, the urgent task that the greater part stresses. It's a perfect text, and he says all the things that people who want to do well with taxes say and think: But here, as often before, the sounds don't match the picture, because the government's actions judge them as not a focus. This text could be from the Middle Party's policy plan, it's absolutely fine. But I'm not looking to get these goals ahead, so I have to admit that it's a little depressing that the text is put forward in this way, looking to make more use of the right motivation and get more for less, reducing the ambiguous points, making the system more efficient than it just doesn't happen. They beat their heads to the stone, stick to their good old silo, and call for more money for their lawsuit. This is not the way to describe who wrote this fine text. But, Madam President, next time, I'm going to go to the state fund and I'd like to ask you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u117	Madam President. I have to discuss the environment, and I was just explaining how some of these expensive action taken here in the environment may not necessarily result in the loss of real success and may even be harmful. At the same time, there has been a strong tendency that continues here to add further spells on the entire population from the environment. It is an increase in criminal taxes, raising taxes for being real and for the message in climate policy of the latest government, although it is not exactly part of this document, which is referred to as the message. There they are that the public needs to reduce consumption, travel less, buy less, eat less, do less, do less, and there is another way of saying it, Madam President, that there is an increased demand for household waste, in fact, an interesting introduction here on gender and equality in the context of what it says, by the permission of a president: where women will spend more time than men in unpaid jobs and care would likely increase the demands of household recycling would have an added impact on women's work load. A specific study has not been conducted, but it is important to take into account these sex balances and investigate the effects of such measures in the implementation of solutions where possible and to work on further data collections. It may be critical that this study of different work loads on these new actions has not already been carried out. But there is still only two genders. I don't know if the government will and will expand it in this planned investigation according to other government primes, but everything is the same. The demand for public is expected to increase. It is being assumed or asked for a smaller quality of life and an increased payment, followed by the section on environmental management, which is of interest. In view of the fact that financing for the seminary is being considered, we can see how large a portion of this figure, worth a hundred million dollars, goes to the administrative affairs of the seminary. No doubt there is much to examine and control when it comes to controlling people's everyday lives and perhaps no other way to expect this to be the case, and you wonder in this context how much of these 50 billion who were put there on one board in the climate system and that one institution pays another to consider these matters without having the best results. Then I come to what I will discuss next, but I see an unlimited time in this talk. But there are actions that actually work to deal with climate and, at the same time, increase prosperity and quality of life in the country. It would have been a wishful plan from the government to 5 years of age, probably from this government, that it put more emphasis on such actions that actually work and improve the country's terms. That's the subject of another speech, so I'd like the President to sign up again on the rosary. Hv. U.S. Senator 8th.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-13.u118	Ólafsson. Madam President. I want in this speech to include views that appear in a committee list more than any share in the acquisition of the state funds. It says, with President's permission: The taxation of traffic and vehicles is reversed. The program offers a review of road and vehicle taxation. Extensive exposure to vehicles and a tax deficiency to the use of the national road system is significant if, according to the previous taxation arrangements, there is no precise analysis of this repercussion in the case of substantial sums. First, I'd like to say that there is no room for an analysis of the postmortem in which substantial amounts of money are involved. I just don't think it's possible that it's not real, but this one's been calling for this review for years. I've done it repeatedly myself. I think that I did it every year during my last terms and aims for the emphasis that has been placed on the transport process to work on by an inside minister working on cooperation projects, on the one hand, where the object of a project, part, or up to 100% of projects will be paid off by user bills and traffic remuneration and, on the other hand, by the urban line of work where a considerable amount of money could be paid by special traffic costs. In fact, it is quite amazing that we are now in the fifth year of the government first seeing the emphasis on these topics, and that is. It has been in progress for so long that the use of new energy cars is being steadily increasing. Here, we continue to speak of the right motivation and right motivation. It is a pleasure to know that in view of the Central Party's election policy before the last election, the government is looking forward to seeing something of interest. But here I would like to come back into the opinion's text, with the permission of a president, which says: "It will no longer be overlooked that vehicles which do not cover the uses of roads will affect the maintenance of their data on the need for the maintenance and the reasons of the situation that the road has shown. A financial committee treats it well that the weight of a vehicle is of prime importance. This is where the roads are said to be broken by heavy transport. The roads are not much broken by trucks, so heavy cars are not enjoying the collapses of these charges, so there is some misunderstanding. Of course, the loss of income, which comes from general use of lighter vehicles, would be important in the overall picture, and there would be differences in the view of earmarked income and not now the four components of the movie. Maybe they'll come later. But it's important that we watch the system as it is. I don't think we can start building a system here, which, as it says here, by President's permission, continues in the Commission opinion: The majority suggest the change in taxation rates including View motor vehicles while maintaining taxation rates. If you think about it, you're saying: " Is raising a very significant amount of money for trucks, for example, that will have an enormously negative impact on the region. ' If we are going to carry out what is said here and I, this will increase the cost of transport. I think it is something that we must take a very deep and thoughts about if it is really the will of the Parliament that the government party will want to increase a lot of transport in the country because if they are going to bind the remuneration by a very direct manner and by any means we have to build up the system in order to drive into heavy transport, part of the traffic, and I'm not sure that it's what they see for a long time, and I think that we must somehow build up the system so as to drive a car so that it will be built up to him that it's not the only service that buys the public for the freedom of the linear miles. The Gísli Marteinn pays the same centenarian a mile [a few km] a year, and the one who has to drive tens of thousands of square miles [4 sq km] to work and to work and to drive children to elementary school long distances.
