ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u1	A respectable president. I want to draw attention to the protection and preservation of ships. One of the most remarkable ships that can be saved is the first watchship and ocean research ship of Iceland, Mary Juliet, who was built in 1950, with a remarkable story but has spent the last few years in Isafjörg, and may remember her delight. In 2003, the Museum of Vestur and the Minjaculum of Hunundi purchased the vessel, which was to be sold to South Africa. It was preserved and supported by public officials during the first few years, but it has been in the so - called ventilator of the Icefjords since 2014 and is about to be the last to save this cultural value from ruin. I believe it is important to show respect for our history and our self - sacrificing spirit of past generations and to reassign our ship, thus reassigning a new role in the cooperation of public and private parties. It may be used as a travel service, as a school ship, or in some form of public welcome. It was founded last year by the Tidal Association on Mary Julia, and it was the University of West Schools, the National Public Service, the Oceanographic Institutes and other patrons involved and is now looking for support in this fine task of the Council and the World Council so that needed repairs can be financed to save this crown jewel, that I believe, a sea collection of sea and coastal civilizations of the 20th century. After a number of fishing accidents in the West, a third part of the ship's price gathered by María Júlía and Guðmundur left their inheritance to build it. This ship helped a number of people and saved them from drowning at its time, and I believe our community is so rich that they should see their own worth in saving these great valuables and I will try to work on this project by consulting ministers and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to cover only a bright spot in my hometown, Smokeytown. Smokeytown is the fourth largest community in the country, and as most of us know, it was one of the country's most debtable rural societys for years. In 2014, there were 228% of the country's highest debt criteria. I'm afraid there's been a long period of crisis in the region and then the stone was removed when the unprecedented conditions of Covid's time were created. At the height of the epidemic, a quarter of the population in Smokejanestown was out of work - a quarter of the population - and the need to respond with firm and clear goals. Smokeytown took on extensive work projects with the Labour Department to increase the number of jobs. A student campaign was implemented, and the work started with special emphasis. At the beginning of the epidemic, I offered suggestions for the first implementation of that strategy against governments and the labor movement. Government action was also a key factor in our journey through this dark valley. A massive reversal of the town's business over the last few years ensured that the community could survive the storm. According to a rate of 2021, there is a positive result of the management status of Smokejanestown. It is largely a reimbursement of debt but also a good business. The debt threshold is now reaching 120%, a respectable president. I'm going to allow myself to claim that the results in circumstances such as this are unhearable. On this occasion, I want to thank especially the employees and management of the town of Smokejanes, but most of all, the population. There are those who have led us through this, our good people in the city of Rhines, and made it that now the future is even brighter in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u3	A respectable president. It matters who controls, said left green in the last election, and many asked themselves, " Is it not best to choose a move? ' These groups, on the other hand, appear to have relinquished their influence toward the Independence Party. Here's the biggest one. A secretary of finance who can handle matters only when things are going wrong, then he seems to have no power. All of this is taken care of by his institutions. We are faced with big projects; the aftereffects of a pandemic, the largest inflation for 12 years, the broken housing market, the war in Europe, and here we are at the highest level. Government or Supreme. The secretary of finance, or perhaps it's just the Ministry of finance, with a financial plan throughout the terms of a simple accounting. V.E.G. In a discussion of housing matters here at the council last month, the minister said that he had proposed financial planning on a significant increase in funds to support the extensive development of social housing due to housing crisis. The head of the advance party received no from the highest level. Secretary of finance. There will be no increase, but there will be no increase of 2 billion. cutdown in building houses. I guess the highest. Secretary of finance told the chairman that the Ministry of finance was just doing this, like with the Bank Office, all the responsibility of the bank sale under the highest power. Government? Left green and forward have entered the full - scale system of the Independence Party. Everyone's hands are tied. No one is going to take responsibility. V.E.G. The prime minister seems to quit in politics. She just reads up dry statements about the bank sale that seem to be written by lawyers at the Ministry. Then it's at the top. The secretary of finance with an assortment after Easter holiday and has a new approach: Denounce, deny, deny. Yes, who's in charge is important. But here it is not the left green, and it does not seem to have mattered that people have chosen to be forwarders. These groups still have the opportunity to show that they are not out of politics by quitting the autopilot.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u4	A respectable president. At the beginning of 2021, extensive changes in organization and administration were made in search of cervical cancer among women. It was immediately discovered that something had gone wrong. However, gaining that recognition was difficult, and the authorities did not remember bringing a report into the council during the last days of the spring council of 2021 in an effort to whitewash the matter. Now the vision is about to come home, and fortunately it will not be in a bottle of plastic or foam - plastic bins, as it did during the New Year's wedding, but professionally. Toward the end of February last year, the National Medical Association of Iceland presented a large report that it had made about this organizational change. In short, this report is a judgment on this organizational change. About the same time, a report by the surgeon's office on cancerskis was published in 2021. The Bible mentions delays and blunders. Yet, I feel that I lack a little depth in that discussion. For example, no mention is made of who was responsible for these delays. However, the medical report answers some of the questions. You can even read it there. that in 2021 women have less than ever received an invitation for cancer screening. The question remains, Why did it leave? Why were the voices of the common people and experts ignored? I believe the Medical Association report calls for a response at the highest level. A medical minister and a reexamination of the procedure, if necessary, will be undertaken and the necessary lesson will be drawn. There's a lot of responsibility at the highest. Healthcare Minister to require the task manager, who are currently in charge of an action programme to restore trust that was lost in this process and to cover more services, new as before. My opinion is that the Medical Association report calls for a response from the highest level. Secretary of health. I think he should take the initiative to learn from this process and show it in a practical way to those who are involved in it and to those who are engaged in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u5	A respectable president. Power comes with responsibility, and when making mistakes, you have to take responsibility, at least Face the mistake and acknowledge it. This is a fundamental matter, but it's hard for the government groups to figure out. The consequences, therefore, are real and serious. Our trust in the government is low, and suspicion is rampant. Yet, you will hear only predictable reports from the government, excuses and misdirections, all for political interests, all to extend the lives of an independent government. There is no gesture, for they were sacrificed, no humility, for they were left behind, nothing to do to counteract criticism and dissatisfaction. As a result, the position of the prime minister was much different when she was herself in a position of government. Five years ago, in her talk, she stated that in 2003 an Icelandic community was exposed to suspicion following the privatization. The only way to destroy it would be to show careful management and to counter-examine the entire sales process of banks. The only way to eliminate the uncertainty and answer the situation that struck the nation. The only way to continue and learn a lesson from history before the government's further sale of the financial system would be undertaken. Finally, the so - called bad wind came up. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and current prime minister, with the permission of the president: 'Why not complete a study of this process so that we can get all things out of this matter that has rested like a mara on the nation? ' A respectable president. Now I want to ask the government what the same thing is. Is it not a reason to learn from history, to be careful with practice, and to start a thorough investigation of the recent government's sale of its share in Iceland Bank? Make every effort to learn from the process everything and then look ahead? This ball is now in the hands of the government, as is the responsibility for what happens. She can still understand the situation, but if not, one player must simply step in and do his duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u6	A respectable president. A report on anxiety, depression, and stress is presented at the same time as the government is selling banks. Anxiety, depression, stress, and insomnia are among the things that afflict the sick, according to a new Icelandic study. The pressures are often very close to their health. The results are striking, according to the nurse who made the study. A lack of ability will be discussed in the affairs of the sick elderly and the pressures on the family members of Hiccup tonight. A sufferer, a disabled person, moved to a rural area where he is put in house arrest. This is nothing but spiritual and physical torture. Two hundred people under 67 are saved in a nursing home just because they are desperate and disabled. The demand and need for health care in Iceland increase each year, and waiting for services is generally too long and not in line with government goals. This is indicated in the new administrative process by Government Accounting. We now see a great deal of increase in food and credit. But what are the Danes doing? 90,000 k. one payment is that Danir is paying to a pensioner because of rising prices, 90,000 bucks. tax-free remuneration. How much would it cost if we paid 80,000 pensioners 90,000 bucks? "one-to-one"? 720 million, the same thing the Bankers get for a little work. If we take all the cost we have gone to the bank sale, 2.1 billion, we could give it to 24,000 people. But have older citizens in Iceland got anything from the government? No. Their time has not come, and he never comes in this government because the government is busy feeding and making them rich.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u7	Mr. President. We continue to demand that the government's government stand be established as a board of inquiry for the government's National Banker of Iceland. Since there are several misdirections on the part of a member of the management board, I believe it is important to correct some of the things that have been floating in the discussion. First of all, it is unmistakably true that the General Research Committee has far more authority to supply data than Government Accounting. If they refuse to report, they may request a court order to report to the relevant person. This document does not have a National Revision. Second, there is a very important law on the Council of Research Committees, which the State's Accounting has not, i.e. that any person who has possibly reached the invitation in some form, and after an incident, participate in something that might be classified as a crime, may appear before the committee and wish to be released from the prosecution for information on the violation of law. This was a key study following the collapse of the bank and made much easier for the research of these complex issues. This document doesn't have a National Review. At that time, the General Commission also deals with moral issues that the National Accounting Committee cannot handle. Note that the members of the board are simply delaying the case by refusing to establish the General Research Committee. The balance of the bank is not nearly as complicated as that of others who previously studied material. By stalling, the majority of the object simply gets in the way of the investigation. There is nothing that the National Review Research Committee cannot be assigned to complete. In other words, an investigation by the State Accounting Office may be mixed up with the results of the Allied Research Committee. Well, perhaps, Mr President, it's the very objective of the government, but on the side of the government we will fight for a serious investigation to take place here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u8	President. The government wants the lights to be directed to those who did the stock trade in Iceland and not to those who made decisions. Of course, this reflects a dangerous view of responsibility, of avoiding a research committee that can actually view the factors that are important, and of hoping that it will be sufficient to put down the banks. But the public sees the big picture. 83% of the population is unhappy. A chosen group of people purchased letters at the bank with discounts. In a few hours, the bank sold something for about 50 billion. Despite the long - term use of professional investors, it seems that there was no regard for buying those who were allowed to buy. Some sold immediately after the purchases, some shopkeepers bought so little that many people could have shared if only they had been available and some of those who bought themselves. Yes, the project needs to be investigated, the manner in which the publishers of the invitation were introduced and the rules were set. But the chain of responsibility cannot be broken, as the government wishes. A secretary's Committee on Economics made decisions on the methodology of sales. So this is why political decisions need to be investigated: Why were the minimum standards of buyers not met? Did they talk about sale bans? What demands were made for professional investments? On what grounds did the prime minister agree with the method of sale recommended by her minister of finance? What is the responsibility of the government minister? Anyone with experience in research knows that the key point there is to ask the right questions. This can be done by a research committee. That's what she's for. It can look into grounds, it can examine communications within the government, the decisions of the government itself. And this, of course, is why all the efforts are made not to leave this route. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u9	V.E.G. President. It's May's turn now, and a lot of tension can go with the month. In my opinion, one of the most important events that take place is Euroviation, it's sheep, and it's rural elections. My subject today is the district election. Now people are getting ready with full force, and I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank people who are allowing themselves to work for their country society, both by their supply and by the extras around the election. This work is very important and often underestimated. Farmers are important administrative units, and much responsibility comes from controlling them. As the district election draws closer, many comments have been made regarding new election laws, which were approved last summer. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The management board has had incapitations for the approval board. Despite efforts to explain the incompetent nature of individuals, this need to be done more. I encourage people to look at the movie that's inside the election, which shows possible proprietors to candidates who make them incompetent. I quickly found myself counting 91 people around me who would be considered incompetent at some point. Icelandic families are very diverse, so I can tell you that I don't even know everyone who seems to be incompetent around me. Also, there are differences in interpretations of disability and family ties. This needs to be clearer. These are questions that are very important to be answered before the election. Otherwise, I'd like to remind people that the election is May 14th, and I urge you to use your right to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u10	A respectable president. I'm coming up here today to seek the help of a president in the search for help from an inside minister. The minister has done little in the past, and this could result in serious damage. So that much of the mayor's work is planned to continue with a large structure in the Surgeon, which is expected to affect the appropriate area of Reykjavík to operate as such. I praised you very much. A minister of recent years said that if the management of the field could be disturbed by planned projects, it would be necessary to postpone them. There was a wise stand with the minister, and it made a firm statement. Then, on the second March of last year, the Department of Wende wrote a letter that required a guarantee that a airport operation would not affect the performance of the international airport like the Dutch air and space transport agency had warned. Reykjavíkurburg responded on April 12, 41 days after the letter was received from the Ministry, after twice advising to answer, not simply to form an answer when the cause is as bad as in this matter. But what happened in the meantime, i.e. from the Ministry of Residents to Reykjavík on March 2 until the letter was released on April 12, after 41 days? On April 5, seven days before the city council's office responds to the minister of the wood, a government official writes on behalf of the mayor's office, and a city secretary a letter to the city council, saying Dagur writes a letter to Dagur, asking for permission to sell a building rights for the first stage of Cutthroat territory. The letter was set up at a meeting of the Council of the City of the City on April 7, and approved at the same meeting with the authority to appoint a controlled area in the Canal, under the harsh objections of the public officer of the Central Party. Five days later, the Department of Welfare is answered by exits. A respectable president. At this position there will be no pleasure at all and even the highest. Since then, the minister of wood has taken a step in the town of Reykjavík's airport for his absence with his life. [[The president calls.]] The secretary must enter the case as Minister of Air Affairs and Ministerial Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u11	A respectable president. Much is said about trust in the community in these days or about the lack of trust. After a collapse, it has been difficult to build trust in the community. Selling a share in Iceland Bank has shown us what a delicate place we are in when it comes to trust. Therefore, it is excluded that any step in the process is reviewed, and that is being done. We're investigating, we're in a community to discuss the matter, we're responding in all the areas needed. It is not designed to build confidence in the government's trust that the discussion is unreliable or is based on illogical arguments. It has, for example, been identified as one. It is repeatedly claimed that the government groups do not want to appoint a board of inquiry. That's not true. On the contrary, my members of a council of the left green have repeatedly declared their will to roll with all the stones. In this context, it would be right for a paper with a bill to legalize study committees, No. 68/2011, says the following, by permission of the president: The order of the research committee is an option to be used only if it is shown that the standard of research methods cannot be used. It is a special arrangement and it is important that such a person be viewed as such and that only action is necessary. This does not mean that when other and more obvious routes have been emptied, no committees will be assigned. Am I happy with the sales process and results? No, I'm not. I'm just not. Am I ready to go into every corner of this matter? Yes, it is I, and, as a result, decisions will be made on how it can be better to sell state property so that the sea is above all doubt, and that the public can trust in a professional, transparent, and honest process in this which the government does at one time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u12	V.E.G. President. Now the forwarding party and the left green-cut armored city of Bjarni Benediktsson, have the highest. Financial and economic ministers. It will not strengthen the public's confidence in politicians or in this workplace, and it is futile to argue that other research arrangements must be resolved before the creation of a research committee. It's Generalis's decision to do so, and there's nothing in the law that says the other one has to be emptied. The options are available, the resources of a state accountant, and the resources of the research committees. It is written in Icelandic legislation. There's one thing, topv. A president worth remembering. I'm going to quote 13. Parliamentary law. I say what to do. Councilmen reading them at least once daily. It says, by permission of the president: The Commission shall also take the initiative to investigate the decisions of the individual minister or the procedures of those to whom it is appropriate to consider on the basis of the surveillance role established by the Council against the Commission. If request such a check came from at least The number of members of the committee shall be the fourth. The committee can report its decision to the council. This strategy has not been cleared, and it is better that the senators discern the role of surveillance. The management committee is in charge. We will be provided with information on the separation of a State accountant's study and, in the light of the separation, the management and monitoring committee will use the legal resources it has for the highest level of observation. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u13	A respectable president. Bank sales managers sell themselves shares. In other words, they gain approval from the public for buying public property with a discount to make money. The big investors who were supposed to own the bank and support for a long time also proved to be small fish in search of quick money. A red carpet pulls out foreign funds in both invitations with the argument that foreign property is essential. They used to sell quickly both times in order to achieve good profit, and no one wants to be locked up in a single - dollar economy. The government claims to have decided the fate of the Bank Office at a government meeting that was never held. An important political issue was published informally between three people in a thorough violation of clear law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. There is strong question as to whether a financial minister has been allowed to accept the sale because of inadequacy. The Armsspreadness of the Arms kept pulling and stretching, and its purpose incorrectly. The truth is obvious; the length of the arm should be removed, but it is not supposed to remove political responsibility. The Bank Office itself has stated that the implementation of the decree has been carried out as described by the Agency from beginning to end in close cooperation with governments, which were thoroughly informed on all the steps they were taking. Yet, only the Bank Office is to be run, not the government, who were fully informed about all the steps taken. The secretary of the business warned prime minister and secretary of finance of this mission and was told that there was little to be surprised about the outcome. Business secretary saw everything coming, warned colleagues, but not the common people. A financial minister and prime minister listened to warnings but did not act. All of this requires as thorough a study of the whole process as possible. There is no other way to accept it, and it is sad that those in charge will not see the light in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u14	Mr. President. In 2018, U.S. Marshal Generals visited the mental wards of the Land Hospital to investigate the circumstances of people saved there. Despite going there to investigate the situation, what struck an agent primarily in the wards took place in forced action and action that was not supported by law. Is it true that an agent's report, by permission of a president, does not have a legitimate basis for intervention that violates the patient's self - determination rights? These are disturbing findings. This means there is a violation of human rights. A person's right to self - determination is human rights, and when given to patients without adequate legal authority, it is simply a violation of human rights. This duplication is manifested in many ways. Patients are punished by isolation, under supervision, physically forced or forced to administer the medicinal product. Patients are forced to eat food, a forced syringe to brush or clean their teeth, all in the name of their basic needs. Yet, you would have held, as stated in the figurative review of Psychiatry to a law bill at the Supreme Court. A health minister who was blessed to be restored earlier during the council, that the basic needs of a patient are primarily due to not being victimized physically by those who are to be concerned with their well - being. Investments such as these often serve no purpose but to facilitate the staff of the Agency's life, yet are justified by reference to treatment or safety. A report published by the National Review of Mental Health in Iceland now shows that there is no record of forced application, which means that it is impossible to monitor patients' conduct. While a patient is subject to freedom on the grounds of legal or judicial matters, the staff of mental health institutions thus does not automatically have the authority to ignore a patient's right to human rights. The situation is disturbing. No changes are needed. Our duty is to protect human rights, especially those whose feet are bent instead of breaking the rest of us for convenience. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u15	A respectable president. Public review introduced why. A management and monitoring committee yesterday results from the Commission's findings on mental health care in the country. Since the demand for mental - health care is growing each year, this report has an extensive end. The number of health care units increased to form 91% at national level, while the number of hospitals decreased by 24% during the period that indicates that the service is near to people, the more they take advantage of it. An organization of mental - health services is in line with government policies that the right service should be performed in the right place. The red strand in the report must be the availability of health care, with national waiting lists throughout the country. For example, at the southwestern corner of the body, we may have a total of 8◯12 months of waiting for mental - health care and a waiting waiting period of up to eight months in the north. The most common reason for waiting is human society, even though there has been an increase in the active mental - health status of 82% and mental - health status of 1 to 8.8. In the United States alone, a 30% increase in the number of individuals in the disability or rehabilitation rates due to mental disorders is substantially higher than in the number of people living in Iceland during the same period of 15% of population population growth. In 2020, the cost of pension money on psychiatric grounds was 26.6 billion. The government must make a decision to ensure improved mental - health care in order to counteract this trend. Exiles are required for built - in discrimination and gray areas in service. The report indicates that there have been mental - health efforts, and some improvements have brought good results, but there are simply too many who greatly obscure the results of the ministry. This is an occasion for further immersion in the contents of the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u16	President. Misuse of public power in private terms is the definition of corruption. There is no greater danger of corruption in all government operations, just as when government property is sold. As with the Piratars, we have repeated warnings regarding the sale of the state of Iceland, the current financial and economic secretary has left behind the path of corruption and when it comes to selling state property. That's why Piratars were opposed to this sale. In addition, he is too personally involved in a Icelandic business life to qualify for such a sale. And the project was made; the work was not in harmony with the law, and known players from the bank crash, plus Father the Minister, had an object at the bank's discount. Instead, the discount that was supposed to attract long - term investors became useful in financial gain. Sales were caught selling themselves, and many of the buyer's list had positions inmates. The definition of qualified investors was so vague that all kinds of bras were discovered. There's a legal and political responsibility for the financial and economic secretary. President. The point is to ask the highest question. Prime Minister whether she believes that the implementation of the invitation was in harmony with the plans presented on the Ministry Committee on Economic Affairs for its conduct. How did a prime minister anticipate the entrance of qualified investors as the owner of the bank when the sales were prepared? Was it discussed in the Minister's Committee on Economics to perform some kind of minimum investment requirements, e.g. of minimum share, to ensure participation of qualified long-term investors? Does a prime minister feel that these requirements were met if they were any of them? The minister of culture and commerce has reported that she adds her concern to the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs for the evangelization. It will be serious that her concerns were ignored in view of the fact that the Minister's office is intended to be the basis for consultation and harmony with the restructuring of the financial system. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how she responded to a business minister's viewpoint on further use of open invitations. Also, I would like to ask if Prime Minister will agree with the secretary of business that the responsibility for the sales process must lie with the politicians who made the decision on the matter. Finally, I would like to reiterate the claims of the government here at Congress that the Allied Research Committee be set up to investigate the closed invitation on March 22, the past. The purpose of the Commission is not only to investigate the actual implementation of the invitation but also to produce the political responsibility and to trace all the threads needed to make the picture clear. The fact that a government accountant is already investigating the matter does not prevent the order of the research committee and, in fact, it would be best if such a committee would have a job as early as possible in view of the scope of such an investigation. We know that a national accountant can work well with and along with a research committee, and the result would result in a much greater and more robust conclusion, as the authorities'research sources are more widely than their national accountants. President. We see the leader of the government in an incessant drop into sound analysis from this bank sale. What would make the government profit from not responding to the anxieties of government opposition, which, of course, represent less than half of the nation? Why create a rift that comes from failing to reconcile with the government's demand for a research committee? An important step in growing trust is to listen to the nation's concerns and appeals and to agree at the council on how we study this matter. It is of utmost importance in the investigation that it is on the basis of the Council rather than on the basis of the government, which will carry out the sale and members of the Parliament, which are now seeking to provide shelter. I encourage it to the highest. Prime Minister to meet the demands of government opposition to set up a committee of inquiry immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u17	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank the advert, okay? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for having a word with me under this point, and I will try to review some of the ones she arranged for in his opening address. First, let me remind you that we have, of course, accepted the law on how to plan for the sale of financial assets in the state. It reviews that in a paper with a bill to legalize the financial assets of the state, it says: Since the decision has been made, the trade process of financial stocks can be divided into two major factors, either for sale and for its arrangements or for the process itself. Hv. A senator here asks for responsibility, and I would like to say that it is perfectly clear that the Minister and Government are responsible for the political decision to sell this part of Iceland Bank as well as to accept the procedure that was agreed on by the Council of Banks, the professional agency that conducts this project and is holding on to these assets. The thought behind the Bank County, I think there's a reason to remind you, it's important to secure a certain distance, and to sell property in an objective way. So I see that the proposal for this method came from politics. This is not true, and it is obvious that reading the bank office's notes is logical. I'd also like to say that the process in preparation is very formal, there are a lot of people coming to prepare the sales decision. In this case, the available data were obtained, as well as the Bank Management Board and the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance sent out documents on the situation and the main objective. The Council had access to the same information as the Government as the Minister's Committee had in the pursuit of the sale. I'm not going to review dates in this, but I just want to say that this preparation and process, on both the part of the government and the General, was consistent with both legal and political policies. Then there is how the project is made and what was really discussed, such as why. A senator in particular asks about, on the scene of the Ministers and the Government. The bank office's memo in which the proposal is recommended shows that although the Agency strongly recommends this method, it is new at the international level, this is the case because the procedure is in such a way that transparency cannot be fully ensured. This was discussed specifically at the Ministry Committee on Economics, and further discussion was made at a government conference. The answers were that there would be an effort to ensure a fairness to the extent possible, and I can only admit here that I had not even considered that the Agency would refuse to publish a list of buyers for state possession, since it must be obvious to me that there must be other views when handling government property or when handling a part of companies in a private market. That's why I have to say, because it's also asked if this project has lived up to my expectations; for this part of the case, even though it was said that it was not a fully beneficial process, I have to say that I was surprised at this march and that it is a responsibility not to ensure more transparency for public property. There have been other opinions. A senator named here to form a suitable investor. Of course, we have a definition of qualified investors in Europe's rule of action, but there have been facts about how these qualified investors and other items were approached, including the following: Whether or not to associate enterprises hired by the Bank Management Board has purchased items, which are normally asked to form a match with the role and related sales providers. I'm not gonna list any more counts, I might do it here, but time is short. Then I'd like to get to it. A senator mentioned here in terms of a research committee. I'd like to say that the State Accounting doesn't work for the Commission's commission. A state retrospective is the institution of the General Assembly. The secret bank and financial checkpoints decided to go to the research that specialises the sales rights. Then I'd like to mention that when we set a law on research committees, it was very clear that such measures should be used only if alone could not be used in the standard of research measures, since the strategy is a personal option. I have not seen it in a convincing way that Government Accounting does not have complete authority to investigate this subject. If not, and now I'd like to remind you that Government Accounting has very rich sources and can even. sought by the tribunals in that case, we must, of course, look at other avenues as suggested when we agreed here on the NTSB laws--I apologize, Madam President, I know I'm done with my time and not finished with everything I wanted to say had--but it's our duty to have everything on the table in this case. And if there was not enough State Accounting to do so, now or the Secret Bank, then we must look for further ways to do so. I find further details as to why. In my second speech, a member of the body mentioned the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u18	Madam President. Trust is a brief, repugnant word, but there is plenty of it. We politicians are entrusted with the public property and are guided by public interests, projects, and so forth. How vital that we have confidence in our work! After the collapse, this trust vanished completely. Over time, it has been building up again, and especially when a government was formed in an effort to restore it with a broad solid solidarity on the political spectrum as it was called. By our current work, however, we find that this valuable trust in the public in the duties of the Ministers has failed. People are offended. People everywhere are talking about the bank sale. People are hurt, and people are shocked. Why are people offended? Because it's familiar with the work. They know about characters and actors. They observe the rules of the game in this bank sale, which so strongly remind us of things as they did during the years before collapse. It looks up at the property of the public sold at the discount of chosen friends. They observe a close connection between the secretary of finance and the buyers who buy a discount at a closed auction and then look up to a government and minister to rush out to the hands and feet when the angry party breaks out when names that never appeared to be displayed, when characters and players appear. This must have consequences, Madam President, for trust is not only the most precious possession of any politician but also of Icelandic politics. It should be our mission now and our work here to rebuild this trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u19	A respectable president. Let's watch the big movie. Within a year, the state has received some 108 billion for its share in Iceland banking. That money will be used to pay off the debt and construction of needed infrastructures, such as. The construction of a new hospital. Selling a total of 22.5% of the government's share in Iceland Bank is part of releasing the state from the ventures of finance. It's been known for a long time. It has always stood to disseminate the state from financial institutions. Today, the bank's owners are about 15,000 instead of one owner. There must be a reason for joy. Long-term investors are the biggest owners of Iceland Bank. Stocks were not authorized, the Bank Office was responsible for the implementation of the bid. All who made the offer stood steady, and the minister of finance was not involved in agreeing or rejecting specific offers. Despite all the talk that the buyers immediately sold themselves, the fact remains that more of the buyers held their share or added to them. There is much discussion about obtaining a Federal Reexamination, UNECE, or research committee to review the procedure. In my opinion, it's necessary. The government wants everything on board. Following this sale, questions have been raised as to whether government sales and banking agencies have followed government goals regarding sales arrangements. The SEC has already begun to view the arrangement. This is clear, and there have been many, and it has been observed both in the case of prime minister and finance, their great willingness to go over the whole process. If it turns out that some have abused their authority or position, that will not be a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to begin my case with that, on the basis of the Supreme Court's recommendation. Prime Minister that it was suitable investors who participated in this closed invitation to say that there is no concept of a law called suitable investors. There's a term called professional investors. And who are the professional investors in Iceland and the world? Yes, there are those who can take a chance on the market. They can invest without consumer protection. It's a professional investment. There is no remarkable concept in itself. Everyone can become a professional investor in himself, but the question is, Who is the qualified investor to have a bank? In the words of prime minister, there seems to be an idea that it was suitable for investors to have banks who participated in this closed invitation. It's just wrong. It's as wrong as it can be. I just want to review the story of why the government's banking department was formed. This was because Swedish banker Mats Josefsson, who came to the country and was chairman of the Committee for the Development of the Economic System, suggested that the State's Bank Management Board be founded. What for? Josefsson made clear the importance of the government's banking business to limit political involvement in bank affairs. Where has the government banking been? Yes, she's been under the current financial minister all along. When he was prime minister, the U.S. Department of the State Bank was the president's office. He brought her to the Ministry of finance with him. There are the private members of the Independence Party who are the heads of the state's Bank, no one else, and they are not looking for talent. That proves the closed invitation from A to Z. Another thing I would like to point out is that political responsibility was said. Yes, it is political responsibility. But who is responsible that this closed invitation was carried out by law or not? It's a clear violation of law there, violation of laws on the sale of the government's property in financial companies, violation of Article 3. [[The president calls.]] No criteria were required to be professional investors who were allowed to participate in the tenders. And who did they call? That's the big question. [[The president calls.]] We got a list of 207 names, and the one who bought the lowest of them bought $1,100,000. An expert on risk assessment. [[The president calls.]] I bought one million last year myself. That's a hundred thousand bucks. Difference. This invitation is a complete scandal, and the public in Iceland is totally offended. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u21	I'm going to remind the generals that the speech time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for this discussion as well as the prime minister for being here to answer. It is vital that we take this discussion to the point that we look at the big picture and consider what it was like when the journey was started. I believe that most of the original goals have been met. But the purpose remains to focus on trust, transparency, and the information that the public wants, and we too want to see, so that the events we now do not recur. Sadly, there has been some violations of this process that involves these factors; transparency, information, and trust. As a result, we are in the discussion today. Therefore, it is important in the context of the Federal Reconnaissance and Economic Affairs Bank to investigate things, roll on every rock, and get sewn over on these cases because we cannot continue on the road to complete selling Iceland Bank - I am truly a sponsor to sell Iceland Bank - until we have rolled all the rocks and everything else is on board about this sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u23	President. The invitation to Iceland Bank was the third largest in Iceland history, selling over 50 billion dollars. Once again, it is proved that the Independence Party cannot be trusted for the sale of government property. If we look to the government's response, we'll see that it accepts itself, she has announced that she has no trust in further sales. The government knows that she's pretty solid. The three Ministers, most concerned with the sale, were members of the Ministry on Economic Affairs; Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Bjarni Benediktsson, and Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddótttir. So this is where the political decisions of the government need to be discussed in the pursuit of sales, since they are important in how it worked. Key questions that must be answered by the prime minister: In what way did the decision to go to the Minister's Committee for Ministers have to be closed? In what way did the prime minister agree to the method of the finance minister's sales? With what reasoning did the prime minister reject the warning words of a business minister who said that he objected to the methodology of sales? And if a businessman declared it to be the leader of the sale, does the prime minister believe that a minister of business has a violation of the code of ethics by not informing the nation of these views until after the campaign had taken place? The Code says that a minister should not hide information about public interest unless law or public interest requires it. The Code calls for a secretary of business. Other questions are about properness. Was the minister of finance to accept the treatment of this matter at some point because of the view of inadequacy? His father is an offerer. I call attention to the fact that it was then that he was still incompetent. Now it's time for the FME to investigate the sale. FCE is subject to the secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] The answer to how successful it was is that the government's life now depends on the promise of a financial minister that no further sale will be, and tens of billions of people used in the community of deposit have been locked up in the bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u24	The president reminds the speakers to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u25	Madam President. V.E.G. Prior to this, the prime minister said that all of us are responsible for having agreed to a legal agreement on the sales of the financial holdings of the State. That's not true, Madam President. I didn't accept these laws and the highest. The minister of finance was against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u26	...is their responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u27	No doubt. But it doesn't change that, at least. Prime Minister, this is a law and it must be followed, just as the Council of the Council of Iceland is a law to follow. Tells you the highest. Prime Minister that when the government, as made up of its declaration, agreed to put down the State Bankisit as a response to this case, it acted on Article 6. a song on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland? In fact, it has been found that the government did not meet with the government for this government decision, but it is considered the highest. the prime minister that the law has been followed in this regard? Some may feel that this is in some formality, but the left movement has not been disproportionate until then, as shown. to change the law of the Council of the Council of the United States and the left movement of the United States's Council and green supply have not been objected to the Allied research committees up to this point. However, times have changed. Now, the VG continues to be the private domain of the Bank of State, and VG continues to oppose the efforts of the Council to investigate such a process. So it has been during the day that major changes have occurred in the highest category. Prime Minister. And that was not correct when it was claimed that the government had made a decision on how to deal with criticism of government sales in Iceland. Tells you the highest. Does not the prime minister have reason to correct some of the previous government statements on this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u28	President. Trust in the Council, trust in the government and trust in the highest government office. Trust is a fragile phenomenon. It takes a long time to build it up and briefly break it. Since collapse, trust has been a rare resource that the political scene has been fighting in the face of regrouping, but it seems to be the highest government. The prime minister is eager to break it again. How can we rebuild trust? The best way to build trust is primarily to be honest about having broken trust and to shoulder responsibility for the offense in a sincere, cloudless way. A person who is not responsible for possibly neglecting his duties, making mistakes, or breaking a law will not regain trust. The government minister is a position for which the nation trusts elected representatives. Therefore, ministers are to be responsible for their work. They are to be treated with honesty and humility. We will see these qualities at the highest. Today's counsellors? No, I'm afraid not. How can a government in the Republic not put first in giving peace and trust to the nation of Israel? The General Board of Research has to be appointed. This matter must be examined from all sides and made an informed decision so that the general public prefers to believe that the government's sale of our bank was not corrupt and that laws were not violated or due to be neglected. Let us prove this to the nation and restore trust, for what is power, and what is our system of ruling, if not for good?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u29	A respectable president. I want to start by saying that I think it's important that we be clear when we talk about important issues, such as the points under consideration, that we talk with responsibility and reason. That's what I think our left greens have been doing ever since the case had its start. This is especially important when there are extensive discussions and many views. What have we said? Yes, we have often talked about rolling with every rock, and there is no pretext. Like the whole world, we want to know what it was like for the parts of the sale that have been in the dough, and we have said that they have not lived up to expectations. We have been clear in our view that we trust the Government's Accounting to investigate, that we rely on the institutions assigned to handle matters in law, and that we believe that this is the natural start of such a study. The SEC, as we know, is to review specific factors involved in the implementation of the Commission's advisory advice, which, of course, it has the authority to investigate. We've been clear in our decision to resort to special measures, such as the appointing of a research committee, and a body of Congress, and if the research warrants of a state accountant and the Economic Affairs go under before it is possible to settle matters. Then we've been clear on our stand not to sell any more items at the Bank of Iceland until we're all buried. Our job is to complete a study of the sales process, and of course, it's only natural, and it's getting a report that's due to fall into the house just in the next few minutes. A respectable president. On this subject, there has been a lot of noise, and the discussion reminds us of many things in Icelandic weather; extreme and constantly changing, skin, and showers, which may not be an abnormal end to an extremely important community. I agree with what has been said, that trust and transparency must exist in the sales of state property, and of course it is our members of Congress and the government to do even more in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u30	Madam President. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir says that a position within the governments is for the full support of Bjarni Benediktsson, the minister of finance, the Bank of Iceland. In other words, no matter what comes out of the investigation of his presence in this matter, potential violations of the legal rights of the government's property in financial companies, or possible failure to enforce the same law that accords within the governments that make up the Government of Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir with full support for the minister of finance. The results of a study made by the Minister of Economic Affairs, despite the alleged independence of the State Accounting, are of no importance to itself. Last April's 19th - century interview said it was the highest. Prime Minister, just like the highest. Business minister, also member of the Minister's Committee on the Future Budget System, has made comments on the plans for the sale. They, according to the prime minister, were still serving at the highest level. Secretary of finance. The two of them were worried. Bjarni won. That same day, the highest said. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: Of course, the banking agency is responsible for the procedure. Then it seems to me that the main points of criticism are being directed to conduct rather than to the Prince's decision to sell this object. V.E.G. Prime Minister. No one's talking about the government's decision to sell this thing. They're talking about making the best decision. Secretary of finance to depart from the proposed route. Yes, his decision, because it is by law that he blesses every step of this process. He'll bless the arrangement, he'll bless the process, he'll bless the traders, he'll bless the prices and the offers that come into it. So it's normal, topv. Prime Minister, to ask if she feels that he has been doing his job, now or neglecting it, when he made the decision that this would be done out of the way of the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u31	A respectable president. Yes, political decisions mattered, and it was important that the government continued to trade on our share in Iceland banking because it is important to get rid of that holding and use that money to reduce the debt of the state, to our benefit all. That was the right political decision. The goals set for the sale appear to have been met by most. But it is true that trust is everything. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson said that the public's interest should be given direction. Our experiences leading up to the program in a financial committee were just as it would have been suggested because it was to include the best way to get most of the money into the Kingdom box. Actually, it looks like it's been going. Nevertheless, there are still questions that we need to know. Trust is a key here. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson that it is our job to rebuild this trust. We do this by rolling with all the stones and asking the right questions. But we do not do so by making legal statements that are completely wrong. We don't need any more stories, do we? paritaprevir Aarman's Ármannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u32	What story?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u33	The bank administration didn't include Bjarni Benediktsson. [[What story?]] It's all nonsense, and we don't need any more nonsense to be involved in this discussion. Let's take responsibility for this. Let us ask the questions, discuss them completely, and we ponder all the stones so that we can build confidence in converting the vast sums of money in our bank, to the financial resources of the government box, to our benefit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech. What narratives? It's just facts. We'll look it up. I apologize if this fact is stupid. [[Up front.]] It's very simple. Rumors are something that is unconfirmed and cannot be documented. I want to go on where it was gone, I actually have a short period of time. In terms of the laws on the sale of the financial property of the State it has been claimed to have been broken. That's what I think. I believe that the principles for sales have been broken. I'll go over it. It's a translucency requirement. In fact, the law had been turned away. Iceland Bank claimed that the smallest investors could not be printed with the reference to protection laws. The chairman of the Bank Office referred to bank secrets. Much of the smallest investors are legalized. They are not relevant to personal protection laws. Bank policy does not apply to shareholders. That's all business is about banks. [[Up front.]] For four years abroad, I've been in the protection laws. Personal information can be won on the basis of public interest. This information was given to us in public interest. [[Up front.]] There's also a law against transparency. It had passed away. It was a broken law that was fulfilled in its time. This is a requirement for practicality. What Is Practical? The highest price? It is not the highest price, and it is a violation of a practical requirement. The requirements for a donor who is to be reasonable must be balanced. I twice asked the highest. Yesterday's secretary of finance was required, but he didn't get any answers. There seems to be no responsibilities that contributed to fairness and equality among the investors. The question is, who did they call? We received information on who got a call. Who called? It's the sales advisors. They were given the power, and they received 700 million for calling. Students who are saving up for a graduation trip could've called. I could have called. [[The president calls.]] Another requirement was to promote an active and natural competition in a financial market. [[The president calls.]] Nothing about it. There is no competition for financial markets, there is no such thing. [[The president calls.]] It's self-employment in there. Iceland's bank profits between 2020 and 2021 increased fourfold, from 6.7 billion to 23 billion. [[The president calls.]] They're selling dairy cows without competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u35	The president reiterates his admonition to respect speech time and to pray for speakers. Councilmen not to have conversations here between the platform and the seat.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u36	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this special discussion on this important subject. The proposal for sale at a stake in Iceland Bank was in accordance with the Treaty Treaty of Popularism, Independence Party, and Left Motion of Green Pronunciation. It is assumed that during the election season, government funds will continue to reduce financial income and use the profit to build infrastructure and subsidies. We are coming out of a worldwide situation where governments, because of good economic control over the past few years, have been able to give full support to people, homes, and businesses throughout the pandemic. Of course, all of this has cost. Of course, it can be said that it is, in fact, a long - term bad practice that the State is the majority owner in two of the three business banks. We need to secure the active, natural, healthy competition on this market. The aims of the sale were, in addition to the ones I have mentioned earlier, to maximise the recovery of stocks, to promote a wide variety of healthy and distributed long - term assets and extra investments. To this, and with this before us, especially when it comes to healthy and scattered property, these factors must be looked to. The committee got quite a good presentation, then I'm talking about a financial and business committee, from the state's Bankiscation, although I feel that the actual performance of the sale is not entirely consistent with its objectives. True, questions have been raised because of some successes, and they need to be fully examined. These include those who have negative personal funds and who have personally participated in the auction. We need to trust the State Accounting and the UN to do our job and consider these matters. The process must have complete confidence, and we cannot go on until we have reached the bottom of these elements all together and at the same time ensure the necessary confidence in the future process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u37	A respectable president. This is where the big film has been discussed at the sale in Iceland Bank. That's what the government's been messin' with. You see, we still have 100 billion that we can't use, thanks to the Independence Party, subsidies and infrastructure, and why? Because trust has gone. And the government realizes this position. She can't sell, she says so herself, because trust for further steps is not there. Trust must be built, but it will only be done by rolling with all stones. We have also missed failure to see a clear view of financial competition. It's not to be found in the government, despite repeated indications from the Contestant. Our policy in restoration has also always been clear in regard to the viewpoint of the public interest. We've supported selling a share of the government in Iceland Bank and owning a solid share at the National Bank. But we have also said that there should not be a discount on the requirements for transparency, on the demand for clear information, but also no discount on clear political and administrative responsibilities. The government has been asked in such a way that it is not surprising that trust is virtually gone. There has been a desperate need for clear answers from the government, and when it is spoken, a sound and a picture does not go together. I understand that there are great political interests at stake, and the self - righteousness of the council here today underscores this in a sense. But it must be investigated, and the trust that this government has lost must be restored. And the sooner the government realizes it, the better. It's for the sake of public interest that the government will set the bulb on fire in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u38	Madam President. The left motion is a private bank for a second time. Thus, the word is equal to the groups, the forwarding party, the Independence Party, and the left movement is a ◯ green supply, 2:2:2. Of course, there is often reason to sell government owners. This may be a reason, and it may be a reason for this about a bank. But how this is done is of vital importance. Now the government has responded to criticism of the method of this latest personalisation of VG on banks by referring to Bank County, and you can hear why. The members of the board follow one another and say it's generally positive, but it's just too bad how the Bank Office did it, and it needs to be investigated. I don't recall, Madam President, at the highest. The prime minister in his day was primarily critical of those who were responsible for the privatization of banks on behalf of the government at the beginning of this century. Then the politicians were criticized, those making the decisions. All criticism is now directed toward those who were responsible for the project on behalf of the government. And when you point out that the government was wrong when it said that the government was the Supreme Court. Ministers would have misbehaved when they said that the government had made a decision to deal with this by putting down the Bank County then pointed to the Supreme Court. Last night, prime minister says that the government was not a multiorganized government and to the highest degree. The secretary of finance would have come to the decision, as if it had resolved it. But this raises the question, Madam President, how did it come to be? Secretary of finance for the decision? Who took the initiative in these decisions to cope with the criticism of the privateisation of Iceland banking banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u39	President. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. Prime Minister spoke of earlier that ministers have political responsibilities but quite forget to mention that a minister may also have to shoulder legal responsibilities. Government officials here speak as if a minister has no place in deciding whether to sell parts of the state, an amazing position. Of course he has a role, or it would not be in the law that a minister's decision needs to be made. This is clearly stated in the law's paper on the sale of the property of the State and is clear in administrative law, and it was also the understanding of government officials when the law was given according to the talks given at that time. We are not just discussing political responsibilities that can be cited for the next total election. We're talking about a financial minister selling his father a bank in a closed outlet. A minister's Code of Morality discusses how it is inappropriate. This is what the law on defenses against money thefts and terrorist finance are about. Government laws deal with this. A financial minister cannot compromise his responsibilities. He can't. Can't the prime minister see it? Prime Minister states that no research committee should be appointed unless it is evident that other routes are not effective. However, it is very clear that Government Accounting does not have as broad evidence to investigate the matter fully as the Allied Research Committee has. Several factors in the sale just fall outside the state reexamination warrants. The Agency does not have legal authority to obtain all the necessary information. On the other hand, a New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures can work well with a research committee, setting an example for us to do so. I would like to remind the prime minister how important it is for building trust that we stand together to determine how this case will be investigated, that there is solidarity at the council. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask a minister right at the end, just one more question I'd like a minister to answer: Has the minister of finance, the architect of the campaign accepted the political and legal responsibilities of this mess? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is really the only question I want Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u40	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for your excellent conversation. I want to say it because of what. paritaprevir In her speech, Logi Einarsson Einaro said that when the names came to light, questions arose, that the names did not appear spontaneously. It was a minister's decision to print the names. Exactly this choice describes the position that I cannot better hear than that all the members of this class have described in this discussion, and that is a firm desire to inform this matter and that it is a transfuse to the process because we know that it is the foundation of trust. I may have listened specifically to those words, but I could not better hear than that would be the harmony of each of these words. A senator here spoke. However, I would like to say that I cannot agree with the above discussion of the alleged independence of the State Accounting. A state retrospective is the institution of the General Assembly. I trust that institution well. I don't have any information that Government Accounting doesn't think it's sufficient to look into this subject. I am confident that if it turns out that there is a lack of evidence, it will be informed the council. Then we'll discuss it, the nature of the case, but I have no information that the Government Accounting has encountered some obstacle in that subject. I think it's important to say, because I have a little more time, because it was claimed here that the Bank Office had been transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry: it didn't happen. It wasn't like that. It's only been in the Ministry of Economics the whole time, and I've been looking up in Presidential decision again, just for information. I'd also like to say that the Navy's in charge of the Presidency Department. But he's an independent institution. Under the S.H.I.D. is hearing the SEC, which is also very independent of its jobs. I think it's important, because we're all at the Allied Parliament of Iceland and these are the institutions we've put on, of course, by law and they're either under the General Assembly or by some form of independence in the law. That's why I want to make it very clear that I can't accept that language when it comes to suggesting that these institutions are in some way insecure or not in their place. This article discussed the term suitable investors, which occurred in this report, defined in Article 2. EU Regulation No. 2017/1129, adopted by law No. 14/2020. The meaning of this term has been discussed very much because it is divided into two categories. I think that many who came to this matter may not have completely grasped the definitions, which are considerably different, which fit the term suitable investors according to this rule. That's one of the things I think there's every reason to discuss and in terms of what I've discussed many times here, both in a pontu and elsewhere, and in the information delivery to the public. When the government's banking administration proposed this method - and it certainly was, it was she who suggested this method - it's the first time it's done in Iceland. It is certainly evidence that this is a method known internationally, and it is given detailed evidence to support it. But it is an even greater responsibility, I think, to share information on the meaning of the procedure. Hv. The perfunctory asked specifically about a discussion on the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs, and I'm going to get to that. There were various viewpoints. It's just a matter of fact. I suggested a great deal of emphasis on public transparency and information, including Because this was specifically discussed in a report. They also discussed the view that the original way out was more convenient, but as noted, these views were not taken to a book as unique warnings or oppositions. I think it's important that we stick to the fact that this is the way the Minister's Committee of Ministers is handled, if opposition is made, it's a special decision, and we all know how it works. Of course, there were various viewpoints. I'm not going to go any further to quote my fellow minister's words than I can just repeat it. Finally, I want to reiterate that the harmony I sense in this room is that we want to fully understand this matter. Here's a question of responsibility, and I went over it earlier on what I thought the political responsibility might be. [[The president calls.]] But I would also like to say that corruption is easy to say, but it is more important and more beneficial to consider and examine fully whether anyone may have abused or used his situation. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say, let the people we've decided by law that this job should be carried out so that we can take a stand on what is presented there. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26-69.u41	Madam President. I come up here to ask the President to give you what? It's part of the staff. The committee has not yet received a memo from the Bank Office, despite having received a request to do so nearly three weeks ago or so, and now the President of the Generals has to intervene. Besides, I want to be in charge of words. The prime minister who said today in his speech that a government accountant did not perform the commission of the executive but was independent of his work, which is absolutely right. I call attention to the fact that it is the highest. The secretary of finance who gave the State Accounting Directive to start an investigation despite the fact that State Review Act has no authority for the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance to demand such investigation. There's no authority to do that. So I must ask the highest. The president, whether she intends to use it there to see if she has the highest power. A minister was there as a senator, but he needs eight senators with him to request that a government reexamination initiate such an investigation. Of course, a public review can take its own initiative, but the National Review has agreed on the request of the Commission to the highest level. The prime minister said that there was nothing to do with the work of the State Accounting. As long as this is being held, state reexamination is being investigated at the highest request. Secretary of finance.
