ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u1	A respectable president. I wanted to draw the attention of the United States Congress that as we proceed to the program and the part called Unprepared Qualifications for Ministers, it is no worse if there are ministers in the hall. On a good day in the East, there is a fine chance that you will meet a minister on the road, for they are 12 members of the government, but according to the program, there are just two who are here to represent answers today. I find this shocking because, of course, it's part of an information gift to the council and to the general and when we have 12 Ministers in the government, there's bound to be better demands than two to answer. I specifically point out that as we see headlines on the Web site that the pandemic is called by the nation's leading specialist, there is no sign of a child - care minister who may be able to provide us with information on the course of the situation. I criticize that the government and the Ministers show no more respect for the council than it did when only two out of twelve arrived to inform the council of the issues that are at the top of the community at one time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u2	The president wanted to say that the situation was in such a way that only two ministers had the opportunity to come to a meeting today, but it was assumed that more people would make it. On the other hand, circumstances were in a way that could not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u3	A respectable president. The ability of senators to direct unsubstantiated requests to ministers is an essential part of the Congress's maintenance of the Commission's implementation and the administration of information by the government to the council, as is indicated here. This is under the law of the General Assembly, which says that there should normally be no less than three ministers who represent answers. Today there are only two. This especially highlights the number of ministers that have become. This government has seen reason to increase the number of stewards but apparently not to increase their response to the council. I now state with great disappointment that there are only two ministers here today, and it would actually be good to have a further explanation, but only then that it was not achieved. There are ways to show understanding, but when it comes to so many people, it is hard to imagine what makes it possible for only two out of 12 to see their own ability to speak to the council. Then I'd especially like the Minister of the Interior to see himself able to come and talk to us here, at least Next time, preferably today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u4	Of course, there are various ways in which the president would like to assume that members of the Parliament are capable of asking a minister. There are unprepared queries, which certainly play an important role. The same is true with written requests for an oral reply made by members of the Parliament and with written inquiries for a written answer. Of course, there will be comments. The senators made a point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u5	President. In fact, this is the third whole week we have an unprepared question period. It was December 7th and 9th, December 13 and 16th, but then there was only one question period this week before Christmas, December 21st, and now on January 17 and 20. During the weeks of December 7 and 9, all the Ministers, including December 13 and 16, parted between those days. On December 21, not everyone showed up, only about half, and escaped the second day, because of Christmas. But there are exactly the same ministers and let go of December 21st, which do not show up this week. There are finance ministers, environmental ministers, Ministers of Internal Affairs and Education. They have been absent in two queries, even though there was one half over Christmas. I think that's unfortunate, because they've only been able to arrive at the unprepared time, and it would be normal for those who missed the last week to arrive this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's been going on here. It's a little strange that there's only two Ministers here, and there's two with a new name, and there's the Minister of wood and science, industrial and innovation, if I remember their real name. And I'm asking, maybe the others have gone on vacation? It would be nice to tell you why there are only two people here. There are 12 ministers, and I would think the minimum is that 40 to50% of them would come into this discussion. There must be an explanation, and I just ask: Is the explanation that the others are on vacation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u7	A respectable president. I agree with the words that have fallen here. We have previously discussed the absence of financial ministers when dealing with economic measures due to social conditions. But I also wondered if environmental ministers should not be in the hall. We've recently received a very strict letter from the ESA regarding the decision of his predecessor and I would've wanted to stand here and talk to a environmental minister. I wondered if it is possible to request his presence in the hall today to discuss that matter. Only for President's conference board, I want less than anything. Mr President, he's the president of the entire council. He was put in that bad position earlier this week to talk, that I suspect, on the contrary, when he said he didn't know about the highest trips. A minister of finance, who later discovered that he was not in the country and that he had a replacement. I think it would be more successful for the President to be careful that he is the president of the entire council and that he is required to inform all those who are to be here, but not to conceal information about the minister or the government. And then, finally, I'd like to say that it would be good to have a minister's name and advice here on the puzzle. It is not good to conclude that members of Parliament are constantly trying to remember what the Ministry and Ministers call.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u8	Mr. President. I can totally agree with those who have spoken here, but let's face it with the ministers who are present. I am also grateful to the highest degree. For a president to explain to us in what way we can equalize the minister's ears, however, it was noted earlier that there should normally be three. It was now possible to read from the words of the president that he considered the reasons why they were so few. Then I think A, that he should inform us of the reasons, and B, that he as the president of the whole council, shall come upon us, and make sure that we have access at least to stewards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u9	For word's sake. The senator wants to know that it is generally the prime minister and the Ministry of Presidency that organizes which ministers will respond in the question period. However, when it was predictable that it would be few, the request was made to ensure the presence of more ministers who were unable to do so. The president does not have an explanation for how it is, but as the president mentioned earlier, the comments presented here will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u10	A respectable president. It is not long since the Council of Congress sent a special letter to the Senate to request that a conversation be made with a health minister, with a minister of finance, every time the government - and also a member of the Independence Party - be maintained in the field of disease prevention, to have a conversation about the economic procedures to follow, etc. I expect that request to be fulfilled. But she's not experienced today, so this is our strongest tool to have in this conversation. In view of the fact that the government today is serving 12 ministers, this is not an option. There are 12 ministers in this government, and they have a role at the council, and there are two of them. Our plans here today were to interview the Children's Education and Child Affairs Minister for Disease Control, for their schooling, and for the fact that there are an incredible number of children in this country. But we can't have that conversation because he's not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to, as other members of Congress have done here, thank you for giving us tips on other avenues we have to get an audience with a minister. The reason I view this time as an important time, especially important, for us to have a conversation with a minister is perhaps primarily because that's exactly what it is, it's a conversation. However, there has been a small amount of time for questions to be submitted in writing. It may take a long time, it may take weeks, even up to a month, especially if a written answer to a query is required. This is important, and I feel a little bit small, as if the role of a secretary to the council is being minimized in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u12	A respectable president. I just wanted to soften my view, because of words spoken by a respectable president that included other ways, more inquiries, written and other, of course, that these different ways we have here at the council are very important. It is one thing to send a written request to get information from the council, but it is quite another to have a direct political relationship with a minister who will then meet. Then I have to make an issue that is exactly why the 12 Ministers should not be complicated in showing respect to the council, though at least to men. the minimum, each time three out of twelve will enter this force, which is extremely important and is not overexcited. I think that everyone, both senators and Ministers, should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u13	President. You'd think there's nothing going on here in the community. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is only on vacation when emergency operations for the sake of the government's Covid ops and for the treatment of disease control procedures. There's news of children being locked up, alone in a hospital or in isolation room, but we can't get to ask Minister of Child Affairs about it because he doesn't have to go to unprepared inquiries and has not been a bit too busy to be in an unprepared inquiry over his head. There are also reports of the labour market and single parents who are in trouble after the treatment procedures and the Covid actions of the government. There's a lot to do in the community. There is still an emergency in the community, and I demand ministers to attend an unsupervised time and sit for answers at this time. I don't feel ashamed there are two ministers here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u14	A respectable president. I agree with those who have complained that only two ministers see fit to attend. The absence of ten ministers and no explanation for that in president's office is at all unacceptable. Hopefully, the ministers here will be able to tell us the rest of the reasons. But I also saw a table of attendance here showing that only 26 senators and/or ministers are in a house, and I wonder: Is there so much infection at the General Assembly that almost 2/3 members of Congress are not there? Is it like many schools in which most students do not attend because they are under isolation or under arrest? Is it also here, or are humans simply somewhere else?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u15	V.E.G. President. Earlier, the president mentioned the ways that the members of the council have other than unprepared inquiries to get an audience of ministers. I wondered after hearing President's explanation, whether we members of Congress have to go to the hearing of these same Ministers, for it is said that when it became clear that only two of the twelve human governments, which are almost Iceland's prime Minister's record, would be able to attend, the president knocked on top of the prime minister's door and asked if it could not be corrected and received just no. This is disrespect to the President, this is disrespect to the General and this is something I hope more than just us in the government stand by the President to recover.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u16	President. I have felt that this election period began in such a way that there is reason to impress the president and the minister. However, because there were other ways of contacting a minister than what we are trying to speak for today, I recall asking a written inquiry to the highest level. Minister of health on December 8. The subject was the subsidence of psychology services, a very important pandemic case that can be counted in years. V.E.G. A minister has 15 days to answer when members of the council offer written inquiries. In some cases, you may request an appointment to increase the number of days if considered necessary. It has not been done, and no answer has been received. So here we are seeing another manifestation that the Ministers ignore the council, not just that they don't attend the council, they don't answer written inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u17	A respectable president. I'm so lucky that the minister I'd like to have a word with is right here today, but I think this is a pretty funny way to work. I have two small grandparents living in Reykjavík who were sick of Covid and have been refreshing for many days. But because their parents got sick behind them, they have to be in an environment, miss school, and school. Finally, yesterday the blessed children were informed that they could go for a walk, so there was some relief. But we are also at the same time in our communities, in our communities, fighting to keep school going. The head of the school works night and day as well as planning school chores for contaminating, moving classes back and forth, and there is no discussion about this. We're here having a conversation with ourselves day in and day out. I can't figure out how to offer people something like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u18	President. It is fine to have a little context of this discussion, but it is a law of Congress that usually lasts to fewer than three. This was changed in 2012, since there were five before. Thus, when this law was set in the mood, it was only natural to lower the figure to three, and it was flexible, so that in part, it could attack the issue of social debates. By permission of the president, I am quoting the changing principle when this was changed. The objective of the law is that members, especially members of the council, at any given time, have access to government officials with questions and that ministers have the opportunity to answer for their actions. The transferer to this change was the current dignified president, Birgir Aargian Ármannsson. Now is the question, when there are both other ministers and other categories, whether these numbers need to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u19	Mr. President. The situation here at the council is that there are only two of the 12 advisers to answer in these days - and I don't have to go over it here for a minute - is totally unacceptable. V.E.G. The president has to stand with the council and make sure that this will not happen again. This reminds me of the atmosphere that was here before the collapse when the Minister'socracy was complete. We're sailing into the same spirit. It can't happen. Ministers are in charge of the council, and we have a responsibility to play a surveillance role with the Commission. And where's the highest. Financial and economic ministers? Has he moved abroad?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u20	Mr. President. I decided to heed a call. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son and he's a minister. We've adopted a changed practice in this Covid fight and we're meeting at remote meetings and if that's the only way we can have a word with Ministers, I'd be quite open to the idea that we'd put a screen above the top of the head. The president and we could have a word with the Ministers, either from skiing or from the beach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u21	Mr. President. Earlier this month, another report in Britain was published on share loans provided that serve as a model for such loans in this country. The report noted that the arrangement had pressed up apartment prices in Britain and was not a good use of tax money. The newcomer had the funds that were put into them to build housing on social foundations. Instead of the demand side, apply yourself on the forward side. The aim of the government on housing needs to be not only to provide adequate housing but also to contribute to the stability of housing. The problem with the government's share loan is that the prices of apartments that fall under the budget follow market prices and if housing prices rise, especially beyond the cost of building, create pressure to raise the maximum price the state commits to the share loans, otherwise contractors look elsewhere. Government intervention of housing markets will not work if they fuel up prices instead of holding it back. Camp prices are still increasing, and now an apartment is not available to the share loan system in the capital area, as the pressure is beginning to rise. The cost to them, though, is already about 4 billion dollars. every year. Earlier this week, the Conspiracy proposed a Synod resolution proposal that the government double the budget for the general apartment system. Such a double would cost about that. 3.5 billion dollars, or similar amount, and go to the share loan now. The benefits of the overall house - to - house system are that it contributes to the supply, that is, the building of unfavourable associates, and thus does not press up prices and can create stability. It's under the roof. A minister would consider using the funds now added to the share loan system to double the structure of the overall apartment system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u22	A respectable president. I'm glad to come up here and answer the council inquiry. I've been in the habit of being here on a regular basis for the preceding discussion on the President's conference board, and I have no need to allow it. However, this has not always been so that members of Congress have taken advantage of the opportunity to ask the highest question. Minister here, under unsupervised requests of lon and Don. But I was here feeling something earlier, like the man in the church choir or the regularity of the church where the priest scolded all the parishioners for not attending. I'm here. I'd like to answer the question. A senator who can do so very easily. Thus, some of Britain's share loans have worked very well. We've been setting them off here. They started off well. There are many reasons why they cannot be spread or used, let's say, in the capital area it's simply that there's a shortage of property and buildings here, and hence not enough of cheap weights to build the apartments that the share loans call for. [["No... "]] It may not be surprising when the construction contractors, if they are primarily offered high - priced property, do not put forth such effort while the market seems to put up with such high prices. This is one of the things we have to go to the new superintendent with new housing and planning, to try to work with it, to try to gain a better perspective, to cover the community's housing plans to the digital foundations they've come up with, to try to get a maning file over to get a better perspective, in order that both countries and rural communities can intervene in the past and have a natural offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u23	Mr. President. It's one thing to come up here and be very proud to go to the queries, another to answer them directly to them instead of killing them. In answer to the highest. A minister of his own to ask why. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson well illustrates that these explanations are just of loose air. A minister also said that this share loan was a success in Britain. I was quoting a recent report, which is one of the many on the share loan system, which says that it actually works rather as a subsidence for contractors and financiers than for those who really need it. I was supporting this last spring trial, but I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of experience: Shouldn't we rather make the money more money? Get more apartments for the people who need it and in time create stability in the market instead of creating this short-term fix to which the advance team seems to be so fond of, that fuels all the prices?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u24	A respectable president. Here may come the real will of the United States, i.e. If it doesn't work alone, two and three, we'll just make a decision and do it. This has often not worked, so people have been dealing with this socialisation market. Should we review all the factors when housing was built around the country on the basis of those who later became president of the Union? Shall we? [[Up front.]] Or do we have a what? A senator, facing up to the fact that in recent years, one third of the housing built for these first buyers in recent months was due to public action; general apartment, first estate, share loans etc. And should we continue to try to adjust the screws to which I think the senator and I agree that it is necessary to create a more balanced housing market, to ensure a lower price for most and safe shelter for the inhabitants of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u25	A respectable president. On January 16, the last 27 years, the avalanche struck Susgav, where my relatives died. Every time I hear about avalanches, I get chills. News from the West reports that a considerable avalanche fell on the north side of the West during a violent storm. The largest casualties have occurred in the vicinity of the Flattyrs and Mussulvís. Also, less flooding in Skulls and Bolungarvík fell. The fluffy road and the road through Susavík were closed during the weather. However, an avalanche took a turn in the Instantaneously. Two avalanches fell on the road through the Sea of Slysavík. Last Sunday, six avalanches fell. Though disaster was low, a car had to be released from a flood that overflowed the road. The mayor of spray Louis told a question of time when someone would go through the water and then nothing would be done. Local inhabitants have called for tunnels to be carried out on spray graffiti and demand answers to the reasons why they are not on a transport program. The first tunnel in Iceland was a tunnel dug through Eagle Valleyshamar between S such as Isafjörður and Isafjörður in 1948. Is it not time to finish the road that began over 70 years ago? So I ask the highest. Minister: Will aerospace tunnel become part of his next transport plan as well as a tunnel elsewhere where the dangerous roads in Iceland are and people are in danger of going to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u26	Mr. President. I share that feeling. A senator when we hear about avalanches, the areas where avalanches fall, whether built or on roads. In fact, we saw in recent years that avalanches began to fall on more roads than we have ever seen. I always feel bad when it is, and I'll admit it for what it is. When I see a helicopter or hear in a helicopter during difficult days, I suspect a serious traffic accident, a senator may come to my senses. I guess it's a fact that there are quite a lot of places in Iceland where avalanches can occur or are a difficult situation. It's also a fact if we just look at the statistics, and that's why the priorities we've taken between separate roads and the capital, the Westland Road, the Southland Road, and the Smokey Way are the chances that people will be killed, if we look back in time, there are one or several people every year. In ten years it has become dozens of people. This is why the priorities in the current transport program. On the other hand, we have started a tunnel program that the Road program has been working on, including, of course, tunnels at spray Louis. There are other tunnels that are being watched. This work will normally be part of the next travel program. In the government covenant, we speak of the importance of looking to the experiences of other nations. That's where we're primarily talking about Faeroe Islands, which has been set up for a funeral society that ensures that at least one tunnel walking at a time, maybe more. I think this is a prerequisite for us to take on enough of the tunnels, they are indeed traffic security issues, both in Susgavík and in many other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. He pointed to the capital area. I'll take an example: Eaglenes Road/Bear Road. There you are supposed to be a misdirected intersection. Today, there is a misdirection of roads with lights that are at great risk of accidents and even fatal accidents. But at the same time as a minister comes up here and says that this is not part of the program because it's less likely that someone will be killed in the avalanches of the spray bay, we're building a city line that's supposed to cost, not tens of billions, but maybe hundreds of billions. I say, if we have money to put into that nonsense, we must have money to make sure that people can leave and work anywhere in the country without having to risk their own life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u28	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has misunderstood my answer. In my answer, I said that in many places, including Susgaví, there were situations called upon to examine tunnels and that the road model was a special land tunnel program that I started in the last transport program, and the council agreed that it would be carried out. That work's going on. And to bring up the next transport plan together with the improved, better, deeper, ambitious geothermal plan. I also explained that we have ideas about how we could finance such a project on the soil for the next few years and decades, so I don't understand why. A senator did not understand my answer here in very clear terms. This is part of that work. I also explained why we have not done all things, that was because it was a priorities decision and that we first take steps where the roads are most dangerous and take most of our lives and cause the most serious accidents every year. But that does not change the fact that there are other locations in the country all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u29	A respectable president. New creation is a treasure, and it is certainly important that innovation, research, and sceptre work have public support. But it does not matter how it is done. We in the Pirates have been strong advocates of supporting innovation and raising funding in the Neon and Research Fund. But now the amount of government-based reimbursement and development costs is nearing twice the amount divided from the Technical Development Fund and the research funds combined, i.e. Less than 11 billion last year. The tax has criticized the arrangements for these reimbursements, pointing to the following, by permission of a president: ▪[B] it has been suggested that on tax returns the general budget and costs that must be considered to belong rather to normal improvements in an existing product made by the company at the expense of established innovation projects. The tax has also pointed out that there is no penalty for abuse of this system, that no pressures may be put upon those who employ these tactics, and that it put it in the very direction of the Council that such abuse will certainly lead to significant government spending as well as to disrupting market competition. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a basis for responding to the tax indication of lack of penalties for the misuse of this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for and, of course, agree with her that there has been a great deal of activity in the modern world in Iceland and that these systems work as best they can. A new political agreement states that these remunerations for research and development, e.g. will be longer than also that their performance and monitoring are specifically considered. A temporary increase in the remuneration rate due to research costs and development will then be made permanent. For the monitoring and implementation of this reimbursement, it is work to get an independent party to conduct an international reimbursement assessment of research and development, both the growth and the activities of innovation companies and also the social impact and competitiveness of Iceland, where we can do better in international context, but also on this monitoring that is important for the real benefit of research and development phases that are extremely important to the functioning and proving ourselves in a few months. We're seeing that companies decided because of these changes in the environment of all the people in their last term to choose Iceland, to be in Iceland, created here, grew enormously. Of course, it is very important that the system continues to make good use of companies. Of course, the results of this analysis will be useful in continued improvement, whether to strengthen the monitoring and to ensure that this will be useful for research and development projects or to support the regularity and to improve its effectiveness in international comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u31	A respectable president. I thought I listened pretty well at the top answer. Minister I thank you for. But I did not hear the answer to the question, Was it a penalty for misuse of this system because the misuse of it requires an enormous amount of money and a competitive position in the market? So I'd like to get an answer from the highest level. A minister as to whether her mind is in order to ensure that the abuse of this indiscriminate system by the state and by which this government has published that it is going to sustain itself. Finally, I'd like to say that now it is so that many large companies, including... The largest industrialized societies in the country are receiving hundreds of millions, even billions, when combined, over the year through this system. And when it comes to priorities, I wondered, " Is it really so that the largest business in the country that's making more billions of money every year really needs to get hundreds of millions of dollars from the state fund for a innovation project that's not even been shown to be a new creation project? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u32	A respectable president. I'll explain the rules if I have to, but I need to get space first to see if we're necessarily the best answer to the deal before I hit them fast here. We need to be careful that this environment will produce the motivation and the environment that will benefit us best. This is done, not only by government funding, but by giving tax discountes or other factors that are encouraging to the private sector, whether it is large or small, in order to further support innovation. Hv. A senator well knows how much more it can bring back to us in the community, whether it is large green solutions to which these large companies go by investing in innovation, etc. or otherwise. I don't think we're supposed to put our priorities on how a company should be able to collect from this fund or reimburse or get a tax charge. Rather, we should encourage every company to take a step toward innovation, which can create much more valuable value in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u33	Mr. President. I would like to have this discussion with the highest degree. The secretary of the wood Sigurður the Ingi Jóhannsson, on the basis of being chairman of the administrative class in the government community we live in. It caught some attention toward the end of the last election period when a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee presented a review with a subheading proposal for a bill for a high-land park that said, by permission of the President: The more part feels that to achieve such reconciliation, the more important thing is to introduce a national view of national parks in the highlands - a need to give it more time and it is important to continue working on it in broad consultation with all the professionals. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and to the Minister of Environment and Resources to submit a new bill based on the work that has been traced here. It was evident that this meant that if the government groups continued to cooperate, there would be a new case in a highland park. Then, people and women of this country will read the Treaty with a sense of conscience and, with permission of the president, will be putting the climate issue first: ▪ Dwelling becomes a national park when peace - telling territories and glaciers in highlands change the law of Lakes earth. My question to the highest. The minister is this: When they say that there will be a national park when peace - related areas are said to exist, does that mean that all when a peace - informed territory falls under, or just that, when a peace - informed territory appears in the national park?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As he described, it was fairly clear that if these three governmental groups continued their cooperation, this would require that the disagreements be resolved. We fishermen have a very clear view of the idea that it was here during the last term, that it was going way too far. I think we've had some ten warnings there, seven special and three more. That is why it was quite clear that when we put together a new government, and it was also known that one of the board's continued minds was on completing work at some kind of national park in the highlands of Iceland, we would try to find ways to do it according to the approval of the council, but also in accordance with the direction of each party we took to the election. Hv. In the original text, a senator describes a period of peace - informed territory and glaciers that is associated with glaciers. That, then, is primarily Hofjöfjölku. There are areas, such as the Guds of God, such as the Mountains of Kerlina and such areas as Þjórður, which may be a constant area associated with Hofjörn cold. There are areas around Langjolkul, which are, if I remember correctly, in Goitland, and then they are the Peaceable Area. It's them when they're peace-installed territory. There are already certain terms that have been accepted. We have emphasized that these terms stay, and it seems that there is some agreement among those who enjoy curfews and those who believe that the declaration of peace is part of the greater protection of the highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It was not clear enough to me, so I plan to ask a very specific question. It says, by permission of the president, that a national park will be established when peace - informed territories and glaciers in highlands. These sites are not linked in the text. Because I know that the advance party had a lot of strength to determine the way the government deal was written, I'm going to ask the highest level. Minister of the second question: according to an understanding of the highest. A minister, then, would it be possible that when a peaceful territory does not fall under the new park?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u36	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to all of the peace-created areas here, and that's not what they're talking about. I reviewed the peaceful areas connected with glaciers and across the glaciers themselves. Long enough for us to make peace, only in a certain way, where there is no peace, there is no peace. But I would also like to highlight another article in the Treaty, which places high emphasis on conversation and cooperation with the locals on this process. It is true that energy and environment ministers have this assignment. However, the Constitution is excellent, and it is a great deal of harmony between the ruling parties. I think that there could be the best way to say: Here we have parks around glaciers, we have Lake Bay Parks, our great national parks, that would be adding national parks around Hoftyak, Longjolkul, and possibly other smaller glaciers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u37	A respectable president. V.E.G. In an interview recently, the inside minister said that the growth reform system was not working well enough. I don't think it's that deep in this year. In recent years, growth rates have dropped dramatically as real estate prices increase permanently beyond pay. This includes a substantial decrease in the number of low-payers and middle-time workers. V.E.G. A minister said that the government puts emphasis on other supportive measures, such as share loans, first purchase loans, and the law on general apartments. However, according to the review of Aggressive trade unions, these resources are useful only to small, limited groups in comparison with the high number of people who had previously received growth improvements. At the highest rate, in 2011, only 15,470 received interest improvements in 2020, most of the world's population. So since then, some 87,000 people have lost their interest in growing without any substitute. Higher real estate assessments, as well as remunerations, growth improvements, and thus these limits have not been accompanied by financial development. So I ask the highest. Industrial Minister whether it is justified in taking money from people who have once made their own plans, including the rest of the world. to pay for other interest options. Does a minister rightly believe that he is improving the right of a group that is not at the expense of another group that may also be ill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting inquiry. Earlier in this time of inquiry, the chairman of the United States was talking about a decision that is today, this share loan, primarily in his opinion and some other subsidies for contractors. Prosperities have been severely criticized for being primarily subsidies to the banks. A significant debate was here a few years ago that this was primarily an excuse for the bank to have just high enough interest because the government then paid back interest. Right away. A senator says that men lost interest, and they didn't get anything in return, so I want less of them. A senator shows that there is a considerable difference between the growth rate when the interest rates were highest and we used to pump here from a government fund to lower the high interest load that the banks took or the financial institutions that borrowed from homes, and the position that has been here during the last year where the interest has been considerably lower. Of course, that is why the need for growth reform has diminished because it is a much more honest and clean market where there is a fair and low interest and people sitting at that table, and it is for everyone, rather than a system. I'd also like to add that every person who's seen such a system, whether it's OECD, the World Bank, or the World Bank, has looked at the tax system in Iceland and said: "Here's a lot of fine, simple systems and we understand these and these things, but whatever it is, it's a growth reform system that comes like the devil from the sheep to this system and changes all equations and square taxes, etc.? [[The president calls.]] That's why I've said, "Let's look at growth reforms. " [[The president calls.]] Let's use our money to improve our system. That's my opinion, and that's one of the things we're going to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u39	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. But if this were the case, this government could just stop all forms of support if there's always somebody else taking it. But it is the government's job to prioritize public funds. These improvements, like other supportive measures, should be available for those needing them. The improvements were to be replaced by the social housing system when it was dropped in 1999, but by this year more than 90% have been paid back since 2011. With this development and the development of the resources established by the government, money has been replaced by a small - income group. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is the application not going to take place from the groups that have the most in the hands, the major types, and the companies and the major people in the world, to those who need the most? Why is this government's priorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u40	A respectable president. I'm not sure I can go with it. A senator in his logic. But I suppose we agree on that, anyway, that we candidates, and I hope that restoration people are too, that we use the tax system to subsidize, not just to take some part, and hence we can use the funds that come into the state as part of the balance to support those who need it, including. in the housing system. There are many challenges there, and we talked only about it earlier today. We now work a great deal to figure out how we can help in that area to make sure that we can meet the larger groups that need to be maintained in our housing system. I don't think the solution is clearly raising the growth reform system. It's a way that was used at the time, but I don't think it really worked well. But we've been developing other options, which I would like to include here in a group at the council when we entered the winter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u41	A respectable president. I started doing some research for the highest level of inquiry. The financial and economic minister I brought up on December 3rd. Now it's that the Ministers have 15 days to answer queries like this and I wish to the highest. The president, who earlier discussed that members of the council have many ways to ask the minister questions, other than to attend unprepared queries, help me find answers to these questions. Now, a minister has not only doubled the time he has to answer but more than that, it is probably about five weeks ahead of his time. I'd like the President to try, as we're here at the beginning of the council after two months of government negotiations, to reassign the Parliamental work, not allow advisers to get away with anything, such as. Repeated absence and failure to respond to legitimate inquiry by members of the Parliament who are working here for the general public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u42	I want the President to look into this and take care of your answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u43	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the grant to the manager of restaurants that have been restricted at opening time. The bill outlines new support measures due to the retroviral pandemic to meet the problem of the operators of restaurants, which have suffered a significant loss of income because of the limitations of opening time. This suggests that hosts of restaurants that have had at least 20% of the pay drop in Almanak's month from December 2021 to March 2022 due to the limitations of opening time may be given the strength to meet the cost of operating during the period. It is suggested that candidates are required to meet the tax obligations requirements in Iceland, minimal activities, government legislation and data to the tax and not to undergo bankruptcy. The strength may account for 90% of the cost of operating during the period of application but not for a larger amount of money, which is the loss of the operator's income during the month. At the same time, concentrations cannot exceed 500,000. for each point level per month during the period and up to 2.5 billion. K. During a month if the income dropped was 209600%, but up to 600,000 k. for each status level and up to 3 million. K. if a drop of income was more than 60%. Therefore, a combined source of strength to the individual operators over the whole period may increase to a maximum of 10◯12 million. The operator is not expected to be able to gain strength according to the bill while he was obliged to close the restaurant, provided that he is able to apply for a final strength for such a period. As with the close-up, income-counting and maintenance grant, both the application and the decision-making process will be electronic and the execution will be hidden from the tax. His decisions are also suggested to be reported to the head tax committee, and these are suggested to be publicly published by the legislazoned lawyers. It is classified as a reporting state aid under the EEA Convention, but according to the Ministry's opinion, it is under the temporary framework for the national aid already in effect due to the pandemic. EFTA has been reported on this basis. On this basis, the maximum total support for linked parties, including sponsorship, according to the bill, i.e. Tourization, closing concentrations before the closing period after December 17, 2020, income dropbacks, and vigil levels, 330 billion. K. from the beginning of the epidemic. The budget for 2022 accounts for a sum of $1 billion for the operators in the restaurant services that have been most impacted by the SEC. " The overall impact of the bill on state funds can reach up to 3 billion dollars. However, this is a maximal effect, and it is more likely that the overall effect will be nearly 1.5 billion. In the treatment of 210 of the current legislature board, which was reversed, including The continuation of taxes for a catering company was made a change on the bill to include a place to stay with a wine permit. I thought it would be convenient to expand this bill in a similar way, so that a definition of restaurants will be extended to restaurant drivers on the road to a guest's room with a wine permit. According to the Ministry, the impact of such changes on the bill on the state funds could have on the period of 1.5 -1.8 billion dollars. In addition to the overall effect, the range is 31⁄24 billion. The Ministry is willing to assist in such a change if desired. A respectable president. With this bill, we will continue to support important work projects that have been damaged by the cut-off restrictions during the past few weeks. Lately, the Ministry of Economics has had a good conversation with a company representative of the catering business, but all of this has received about 11 billion dollars in this article. in direct strength from the government because of the epidemic. The aim of the measures recommended here is to reduce damage, ensure that poor economic and economic activities will be adversely affected and will provide the circumstances for the subsequent vigorous resistance. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u44	A respectable president. It is this by learning from experience and making better use of it in changing situations. In terms of disease control, ministers repeatedly come out of meetings and declare that they do not have to wait. after further data to question current government recommendations despite the same individuals, they likely have the best possible information in the nation's midst of these meetings. So, at the other end, they're going to be interviewing late, and here in a chair, discussing economic procedures and showing themselves that they're still learning all of this, getting out of the boat, can't be prepared for this. Where is the confidence and assessment of their own judgment when it comes to economic actions that they seem to have in hand? We agreed on Christmas 1 billion dollars. A warrant for restaurants. By three weeks later, that budget is being raised to as many as 3 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] What has changed in the meantime, and why is it taking so long?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u45	Mr. President. We've been told from the beginning that we're going to do what is necessary to minimize the economic damage that the industry, business and post-marketing experience will be due to the pandemic. We have followed what we do not particularly want to follow, which is the virus itself. On the basis of the data, signs, and situation of the epidemic, we have assumed that a specific support could escape and that it would not need to be restored. So when action is taken and it is thought to be important, either extend the time of certain measures, whether of closures, repair strengths, income loss, or otherwise, and just as time goes by, new data are even developed, new resources, such as this strategy, are being developed here. This is done on the basis of the data and conversations we have had because the damages of this sector are more and in ways other than others. This is especially true of those who do so. After that, there is a continuation of general measures with general conditions where sector and enterprises that meet these general conditions can apply. But when it comes to the restaurant business, we're building special resources just because the situation changes and it gets heavier there than in other places, when time is so long and the limitations do not have any other effect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u46	The president reminds us of a limited talk period, asking both presidents and Ministers to keep in mind that when four would like to give a reply, a talk period is just one minute each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u47	A respectable president. No one here assumes that this is an easy situation to deal with, but it is simply called for a staging analysis of the response to possible disease prevention procedures before they reach them. I find it very special that to make a film, you have to wait two months after you have some suggested suggestions. It is spoken of as the military of a disease prevention operation earlier in the month was the first to arrive in the restaurant sector. Now that two months have passed, you might think that the rulers of the country are not aware of what it means to run a small business in the country. We now find substantial reports because small companies simply do not have the resources to deal with these measures. Yet, the minister comes up here and does not mention a single comment as to whether it is possible to take back the part - improvement process, as shown in this bill's report, which will be most effective in this sector. Are we going to enter yet another month's convention without hearing answers about this in order to form the best new resources of the sector? Where's the staging analysis?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u48	Mr. President. Experience has simply shown that we have had to be flexible and flexible. We've based on data and analysis, and we've already done so when it comes to economic factors. We also know, and there are no new reports, that there has been unforeseen occurrence in terms of evolution, economic sizes, unemployment, etc., as well as measures and restrictions taken for the prevention of disease. And in the final analysis, it has also been found that the actions and decisions of the government have been correct when economic reactions occur. We see in numbers that unemployment is not growing, and that is why we need to work in the field of motion, data, and information gather to assess the situation now and to see if the partial reform or general penances will be maintained and in what way and how different resources are most useful to whom and where the need is most, since we also need to protect ourselves with sufficient resources so that we are not promoting some instability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u49	President. We're still dealing with, what to say, that governments don't seem to know math. There's something like that. It's all put on simple columns, just steps like this, 20%, all below 19%, no, it's not in. Then it comes between 59% and 60%, that's 500,000 or 600,000. There's a very clear understanding where you'll be out there. This is not really expected to result in a relative growth in concentrations as you have lost more in terms of income and business. After all the indications that have come out of all the responses the government has made, why are we still in this step distinction that leaves behind any group, just because of a slight difference, 1% to or away?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u50	Mr. President. Yes, we have steps and steps in general in these measures, and we have tried to find the right balance in them, and at times they have steps, steps, even made some changes in the past. We have two steps to try to grasp different positions of different enterprises, but it is now that it would be impossible to cover hundreds and even at some point thousands of applications if they could have it in half a percent and consequently a lot of exports. We try and have done well in finding this balance, and we do not have a single line. Of course, perimeter events are always important, but they are both efficient, efficient, effective, catchable, and based on past decisions and past experiences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u51	President. Is it not easier to have just one fall that describes the trend rather than this stepway that leaves people behind if they don't get in right or fall out at either end? Just a simple fall, linear, or logarithm, or the fall that the government considered justified in that case. So a man might take only the simplicity of this, we're just dealing with the situation since summer when all the limitations of June 25, so we're back on October 25, August 28, September 15, October 20, November 10, November 13, 23 and again, on the day of the addition and January 15. [[The president calls.]] We go back and forth in complicated changes, and if it were possible to make it easier, it would be kinder to accept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u52	Mr. President. These suggestions are given to us in the process of applying such suggestions from those who are responsible for the implementation of these measures, the so - called experts. We base the suggestions on their advice on what is possible, what is best to achieve a goal. In this case, it's really like you're out if you're under 20% of a income drop, because something has to be, but you don't fall out at the top. That is why we have tried to keep the measures as simple as possible, so that they are easy to attend and easy to understand. The list of steps to take and release is boring, and hopefully we will not need to be talking about any further reactions and support, but they can simply earn money and make valuables on their terms. I hope we're close to that, and then we can start talking about politics other than this one. But we just need the job done, and we're going to do it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Of course, that's a concern. First, I'd like to say that in the situation as she is, we have to look for ways to support the operating restaurants but at some point the government has to ask themselves how long it is justified to let the local caterers carry the angle because it is the assessment of the Land Hospital board and that at the time, it seems to a psychiatrist that the hospital will not be able to handle a project carried out by the Covid pandemic. This is not fair in any context. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what the Minister's position is so that we just stop this nonsense. It is not acceptable to leave 1,000 companies in the restaurant business here in a position to be subjected to being half-headed or not regularly. [[The president calls.]] There is no longer any business in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u54	Mr. President. It is true that not only does the literal business weigh down when money cannot be obtained but it is a distraction when you see nothing ahead of you, and uncertainty is intense and unpredictable as well. Of course, it is sobering to think that on Friday it is scheduled and even suggested that everything and a few days later be closed, we may be able to go to some mass reduction. I want to hope in it and believe it's the end. We now have over 4,500 gangs, and we have 24 in the hospital, if I have that number right. Hopefully, we're getting to the point where the virus has become so painful and weak that we don't need it to guide our lives, and we don't have to take measures that make people unable to work or make money, or to have culture, or to do whatever they need, or to choose to live their lives as they please. But at the very end of the game, we also don't want to see behind companies for short periods of time because of financial problems. Rather, we're going to keep what we said. We're going to finish this business, we're going to work with employees, and we're going to do what's worked best without going too far and trying to learn from experience, and hopefully we're going to minimize the economic damage that's been severe, both for businesses, big and small, for state funds, etc. But what a shame it would be if we didn't finish the job on the economic side and that's why we're bringing these bills here and this additional support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u55	I think the highest. Ministers are missing the situation. We don't have to do this. We really need to stop doing this. It is suggested that this solution be active due to a fallout of the March 4th. It's the highest. The minister and the government realize that we will still be subject to the boundaries that justify being evicted to the market, the catering market, that this will be the situation until after Easter? Because if the cost is estimated to be 1.5 billion, as in the bill, and it covers about four months, that would be 375 million per month. The average value of 375 million per month to 1,000 companies is less than half a million per enterprise. Have we become caught up in some showthing about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u56	Mr. President. So I corrected it, we have 23 patients in the hospital but not 24 to be documented. During the March and March months, and hopefully there will only be no companies meeting 20% of drop-down conditions to use it in March because we will be in some normal beat and more pace in both food management and elsewhere. However, to assess foreseeability and clear answers to those in this difficult situation, the date is December and March. Of course, the company may have suffered a loss of income. If my hopes are right and the situation will be that way then March month and this bill will hopefully not be in much context, but we'll be somewhere else. The actions that are now ahead of the beginning of February, and I'm not going to say it here what will take place there, so I've learned so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u57	A respectable president. During the last Monday, this council adopted on one day a bill to allow companies in the restaurant business to postpone pay of public pay, which was one of the conditions, by permission of the president: If interest is donated or bought in 2022 or the assessment of owners within 2022 goes beyond their calculated return, the continuation of payment will not be accepted according to this requirement. This condition made me very important to have on the bill. If you live so well that you could make money, you should not accept government support. This condition, however, is not to be found in this bill at the highest level. Secretary of finance, which is not really here to account for that on the second consecutive day. But I ask his replacement, why was it decided not to accept this important condition from this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u58	Yes, it is true that the terms of interest were in the bill that has now been provided, which involved the matter of fiscal taxes. This is a corporate scholarship. There is simply the difference. In a bill dealing with taxes, there are other viewpoints than the general strength met by certain conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u59	A respectable president. I don't quite understand what this difference is. True, it was property taxes, but it is the very money we receive back. Here we are talking about money that we do not get back from public funds that go to companies who are likely to have business problems and who are allowed to make money after receiving government assistance. If I recall correctly, it has been a requirement for most such government granting that unless they are citizens, they cannot take advantage of it. It's been quite common, so I don't quite understand what the difference is, that if you get to postpone a payday and eventually have to pay back, you really get a loan from the state, you can't pay off money, but if you get a grant from the state, you can. Why is this difference important?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u60	Mr. President. Both these bills, what's recently done and what we're talking about here, are based on previous implementations. Also, Tequifer concentrations, lock concentrations, and penances did not have these conditions, so this is in accordance with the methodology and conditions that have already gone through the council and received Congress treatment. But I'm not going to make a comment on the fact that these views are being raised and discussed, but it's that we're improving because of the actions of the government, which they think are necessary to suggest and go into, and their limitations and measures inhibit the activities of the companies. There's the basic views, let's face it, but we've been through here before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u61	President. This is interesting. We have just dealt with a case in which the pay period of these same companies was being postponed. In the prehistoric speech, it was announced that a group should be added, which was also added in the bill adopted on Monday. So we're talking about the same group of companies. It enabled companies to postpone paydays because of bad results. This is a bill making them pay for this loss of business. I can't quite figure out how it fits together to do both, probably because the rest of the income is that there weren't any. But are you paying any fees anyway? There's some balance between here that I think I need to explain a little bit better. The whole thing doesn't quite work out. It might, but at least it is not explained in a way that is completely satisfactory for me. When I review the motives and need of the law, it is now a matter of consideration that there have been about 45 billion in the catering business compared to the same month of 2019. This corresponds to nearly 30% of contractions. We are dealing with a condition where there is a set of strengths for each position of operators who have a loss of income in the range of 205/60%. As a result, most of them should fall on the inside. Then there are conditions for someone who has more than 60% of the income drop and who receives 600,000 per rank. But those who have a quirk of 19 to20% will miss the train altogether. That's interesting to me. I don't understand why they'll get them more than half as much. This explains that government resources due to the epidemic of new enterprises have been 11 billion in government support to meet the cost of operating. So that's how the companies have companies, e.g. has a power of income and wood gain for a well over 3 billion. Here we add 1.5 billion. It is not completely defined if those who were added on Monday, those with restaurants and e.g. A stay, a drop of the same, an extra 1.5 billion. Are we getting 3 billion more, then, compared to what has been before, 3 billion because of income and boxing, not exactly the same party? The disintegration of this is 3 billion in income-and-exploitation grants, 5.5 billion due to unemployment improvements in a poor employment rate, about 0.6 billion in recruitment capacity, more than 2 billion in government insurance loans - perhaps by -1 billion due to administration of the established government, a final concentration of 0.6 billion that goes to 57 bars and a place of entertainment. It's interesting to see that number. When you think about it, we're close to 123/4:13 billion. If you take away your government's loans, you will be in 10▪11 billion, which may sum up to this 11 billion dollars. Support. Otherwise, we are now numbering 1,1231 billion, which is not 11 billion. support. How the whole thing works out is not completely clear. In addition to this, jobs about 1.5 billion that will be expected to develop these enterprises will start if 10% of all recruitments pass through them. Then you're up to about 14 billion in support of a company in the restaurant business. All right, they need support, etc. But I'm just trying to prove what's going on in this bill. According to one estimate, it is 11 billion support, but the dissociative process then draws support to some 14 billion. Why the difference? There is something that the committee might scratch in and explain. Maybe there's a reasonable explanation, but at least I don't see her in the report. There is also a review of the government's decisions that have affected this area, on these companies, which make it justified for governments to perform some kind of counterargument measures to offset the limitations of this sector. It's kind of palatable to see what it looks like. When you look at the rearview mirror and think about it, there's insecurity here, there's uncertainty, etc. And how does the government correct this uncertainty? Yes, by first removing all the limits on June 25, 2021. The situation was that everything was fine, and we got rid of everything. It was like a zero point, up to a new one. As a result, everything went to kaos again, perhaps unpredictable, but at least they were warned. Only a month later, restrictions were again taken. That's where we begin with our limitations. Just the right month later: change. Less than a month later, September 15th, change. Over a month later, October 20th: Change. Less than a month later, November 10th: Change. Three days later: Change. A month later, December 23, 2011: Change. That same day: Exception, change. Less than a month later, January 15th: Change. At about It is a month's time for governments to wander back and forth with limitations in this field. Clearly, such an environment is unpredictable, and governments do not help. Instead of setting a good baseline that could be kept within the work, it is in my opinion that there would be too much too short a time for changing this arrangement, especially if we took into account that the reasons for changing things in this situation were not necessarily sufficient. The changes in infection were not necessarily driven in this field but by some other field, e.g. at school, certainly at different times and at different times, but they were not presented as evidence of changing to the scene of restaurants and entertainment at any given time. It is the core of all government action. The government responsible for a larger context than only anti-aircraft measures has to add the support of a disease practitioner because of its limitations and their additive effects and, as shown in counter-reguctions. paritaprevir Kristrún Flosadóttir, that there is an extensive assessment of the government's actions at their disposal. It's okay to be inaccurate. The classic complaint that I get is that it's too complicated to do so, that it can't be made up of exactly a crown. No one ever asks for it. This bill is always being evaluated for food. That's a pretty big gap. The final result of the government will be one of the more and more 0.5 in their lives. This is before this group is added which was done on Monday, on the last bill. The product should then get worse by 15,3 billion or so. It's not an accurate assessment, but it's food we want. We also want this when there is a limit on our heads. There's not a lot more specific than that. Somewhere in this range, which means that we can, to some extent, assume the overall effect of it. Whether it is in tens of millions or hundreds of millions is important. Whether it is in hundreds or thousands of millions is important. That is, in fact, the only reference we are asking. Are we talking about something that is hundreds of millions of people talking about, or we're talking about something like that? in the number of thousands of millions? Please give us some kind of vision of what we're looking at here. It's quite interesting too, as it turned out in answer to what. paritaprevir Bergþór, the son of Ólason, was about and by March, although I do not necessarily agree with the reason. Of course, it seems to be some kind of space in case this is extended. If it is to be extended, we would likely have to go beyond those revenues until later, although, of course, I was hoping it would not be. There is something in this cost assessment, as discussed in the bill of 3 billion, which is expected to be almost 1.5 billion. Food like that is good. For the most part, it's just a well-worked bill. Question question. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Asvardótir's rivalry was e.g. That's a very good point. The question of values was very good. And so I don't boast too much about myself then there's been a question about the step shifting of my strength before. Why is there a special switch to 20%? You will not be given anything when you have 19% but you actually have a full strength on the middle level when you have a 20% loss of income. That is something that the committee can definitely consider. I don't know what time the committee's gonna get to win this thing. I think it's a little more than last time there was a little date problem. At any rate, I hope that the therapy for Congress will be more serious than it is then. Other than that, it's just fine. In some respects, though, it has become evident that it has become a knowledge of how to react and how to use it. Besides it's missing from the government, and I hope it's in the government budget right now in spring that it's going to explain to us how we're going to grow out of these debts that we're building with all these sponsors. There are certain parties who are getting strong, I'll say justified, but it's also a question of who's going to pay. The evidence is: We're going to grow out of the epidemic. That means not to take over-laws from anyone, but to produce in addition the government's actions, into the economy, with whatever options it is, in effect, to repay these loans. I think it's totally justified, but I don't think the explanation for how much effort is made by the government and how it's about to pay for something. How long is he going to pay off those debts? After the epidemic is over, what is the long - term scene? We know that although the government won't be here after 2026, that's when we start paying. And we need to see what it looks like now, before we take it a lot further. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u62	A respectable president. This is a good bill as far as it goes, but we can make it even better by making certain changes in the affairs of the council. The bill's report shows that if the annual fluctuation is corrected, then November was, in fact, even worse for the caterers than December. And it's the same in cultures. The discussion of this was natural at a high point today in the beginning of December. That's when I said it was the highest. Financial and economic ministers are going to have faster hands, take special action. But then nothing happened for weeks. Now we finally have a bill. It involves a large part of the business, only the caterer. We must insist that the council will arrive very soon, with the cultural and stage arts involved. That's at least The minimum requirement for individuals in these and others to have a clear answer to what exactly is needed to do for them now, for example. has been canceled for mass meetings where visitors have taken a rapid test. What may be particularly positive for the bill we're discussing here is that the money reduction threshold that conditions support are considerably lower than the penances. Thus, it reaches more people. Thus it is clear that with this provision, for the first time, many companies in the restaurant operation will, in effect, receive direct support from a pandemic State Fund and the SEC. In the bill, the idea of maintaining the minimum function and maintaining business relationships is to prevent viable enterprises going on the side with the related economic damage. The report says that there is no reason to extend general support to industry and businesses, such support may prevent the introduction of manufacturing factors from enterprises that are inaccessible and that can be maintained through economic production. All right. However, this emphasis must not be made that a well-runned company, with all authority to move forward as soon as its limits are lifted, falls between ships and docks, e.g. A company that may not be involved in the restaurant itself but who will depend on the fact that mass meetings can be held. Here, we need to follow the gold balanced between the general and the specific, making good use of the funds, not e.g. Inject them into the already swollen part of the economy, as was the case, for example. By extension, everyone wins. At the same time, however, we need to be justifiably balanced, making sure that businesses and jobs are not unjustly left behind. One thing I'm doing in the bill, and I hope we can work out here in the Senate finding a successful solution without taking it to some political qualification, is that there is really a certain imbalance in the management of the companies on one side, which were formed before the pandemic, and the rest of the restaurants that opened right after a pandemic came into the country. The first group of companies have the right to be strong if income in that month was 20% lower than income in the same almanachs month in 2019 C.E. In the second group, however, the reference period is a period of time when the stringent prevention measures were all equal to the population and when the population had to be locked and put back together when the number of tourists was completely pulled together. We know what conditions were going on during that period, although, of course, there had been flourishing weeks between them. This imbalance I just described isn't fair, and I think we can all agree on that. This puts some restaurants in a very bad competitive position. I hope we can just fix this right here in the Senate. As I've said, it's just the best thing, this bill, as far as it goes. But what I just described is something that we must be able to consider here at the council and make a better decision. The highest. The secretary of the economy here in speeches said that the government will be running the business through the epidemic and over what they hope will be the last resort. In view of these statements, I think it's kind of unannounced that ministers do not just answer it a little clearly whether or not and when and in what form they are in order to restore the partial reformation pathway. At that time, the operators may conduct their plans for the next few weeks and months accordingly. This bill, as I indicated earlier in my speech, I think it was this way. month too late. It was distributed on January 18, five weeks after this declaration by the secretary of finance, which I referred to. In spite of this, it seems that the bill has not been fully submitted because today, two days after the bill was distributed at the General Assembly, this is the highest standard. The Minister of Economics and Economics is actually asking the council to make some adjustments to the bill. All of this raises questions about government management. But I look forward to the work ahead of the Economic and Business Committee, hoping that the situation will be successfully treated here. We need to do this relatively quickly, but we also need to do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u63	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story with this bill we're discussing here, on the grant to the manager of restaurants that have settled the limits of opening hours. Like other senators who have participated in the discussion until now, I also want to state that I like this bill. I think it's about to be a big deal of business in the restaurant sector that they'll be approved here at the General and I'll expect it to be a problem and also to be taken on a financial and business committee. I also hope that soon we will receive cultural and field lists, as reported, but there is another source of community involvement that has had to be impaired because of the Korean epidemic and to control the spread of human infections. I liked it as the highest. In his background speech, a minister spoke about adding this bill, adding those who run room service on a restaurant permit, as was done during the Senate hearing earlier this week, and thinking that it would be very important to have help from the Ministry of finance in the implementation of such changes that she serves the goals we would like to meet. I've heard of the discussion here so that this is something the committee will take to heart and will work together with the Ministry. I also feel that it is important that the committee oversees the conditions set in Article 4. The bill. There's a certain flexibility in writing, because of the conditions, so that the resources can be used, and I think that's also the case. Based on previous experience with the use of resources so far. That's good. It is good if both the Ministry and the Council learn from the work that has already been done and use it for continued work that needs to be done. There's a lot of things in these conditions that I just think it's nice for the committee to go over and, of course, other articles of the bill. But I'm not going to have more words or prolong this discussion, but I'm looking forward to getting the case into a committee and dealing with it because I think it's basically good and it's coming to a great deal of importance to the hosts of restaurants that have had to put the limit on opening time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u64	A respectable president. I'm so disappointed in you. I really hate that we're here on a bill about sponsorship strength, and that's not the first time we do it. I was sitting down. A financial and business committee during the last term where we had a lot of similar cases, and I certainly hoped that it would be the first and only time that the committee was discussing something we call a scholarship to the economy. And, Mr President, when we talk about it, we're, of course, giving us some kind of scholarship or payment from a government fund when we're calling out for a certain kind of behavior to form out of climate or environment and innovation, protection of the Icelandic language, Icelandic culture, or anything like that. But that is not the way it should be, and it should not be that we are generally strengthening our secular life. Business wheels are essential to society, and the source of tax revenues we use to support the necessary services. So I wondered, " Why are we talking about strength now? ' Isn't this much more a reform? We are looking to companies that have suffered significant restrictions on the public because of the pandemic. We all know that story, and we can have different opinions about how far such limits should have been, and many feel too far, and especially when we're doing this now and coming into, what, this isn't the third year we're falling into this Covid fuck? I also wonder about those sitting at each other's feet. A financial and business committee whether it should be used as a substitute for the word's strength. And only in connection with what was discussed here, I suppose it was a why. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, who was wondering about some requirement that the company not be allowed to make money and something like that. It is a discussion that we took in just during our last term and found our way into one of our responses to a pandemic. I totally understand those depressions. On the other hand, when we are talking about improvements for some of the restrictions that have been put on by the government, we may also ask, Why are we setting up any further requirements, and is it not designed to overcome the competitiveness of the situation? But I also imagine that those who work in this sector have very limited resources if something to make money at that time. When we read this paper with this bill, this remarkable story we've been in during our past years has become a constant change in the rules of Disease Control. I agree with the views expressed earlier in talks that it is, of course, totally unacceptable for the operator to sit constantly under the fact that the rules are being changed. Of course, there are other viewpoints we know that are the pandemic and that we are defending the health of the people of the land. I think we're having a discussion with the highest degree. Of course, there are many viewpoints, including health ministers, who follow. the opinions I have so much discussed, that the council needs to increase the discussion of the limitations we are taking and measures we are taking in our wrestling with health care problems. But to tell them, I'm just saying that I feel really bad that we're in general talking about some kind of scholarship to professional life, but it seems to me that the bill seems to me, in the last situation we're in today, is pretty good, and is based on the experience we've been collecting in the last eight years. But I'd like to mention one thing, and I'd like to direct it to the Committee to consider, about those who do restaurants and may not have restaurants or restaurants, and I'm actually referring to those with international food, restaurant services, even those who have halls and meals, rent out halls. We know that there has not been much weddings or Bar Mitzvahs or annual festivals or anything like that. Do they fit? I feel quickly as if it isn't. I don't know what it's like, and I don't know if it's possible, but I just want to encourage the committee to look at it. But, of course, it's like this very thing I'm talking about right now, and it's just really complicated when you start talking about how to pay back money from the state fund to work. My mind is with you. The economic and business committee that now has to lie down on it and do it very well, is very well done, but at the same time do it as fast as possible, because I know that those out there and many of them all will need this action, of course. Of course, in view of circumstances, these actions can be justified, and they are enormously important, so I wish. A benefit-and-explorement board is also encouraged to see if there are any who may fall in between.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u65	Madam President. I attended a school course at the 2006 Foreign Field, where the headline was ◯Shape of Things to Comet, or whatever happens to be among the nations, and based on the book of those who had predicted the very extensive and dramatic revolution associated with the Internet and its induction into our lives. And what was the central theme of the question about what would happen? What was the next revolution announced? It was the global revolution of the experience sector that immediately set out to become the largest habitat in most countries. Of course, life experiences include many things; tourism, sports, culture, and all that people can afford, things that have more than just a knife or a spoon. It's certainly been going on here in Iceland, although there's always been some kind of travel service, travel and food court. There was a revolution here, some sort of ensuing, connected with the Eyjafjörður during his time, and all of a sudden a travel service in Iceland became the largest industry, bringing a total of 70 billion clean in income to the government in 2018, and although a small amount of activity since then was hidden, most evidence is that it will continue to be one of our most important careers in the long future. Therefore, it is very important that we protect this rich branch, stand by it, ensure it in its longest layer that through the interiors that have been built up handsome and rather fast since 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, the location of a guard. There are many in this house who remember the days when the food restaurants in Reykjavík were three or four that could be allowed to eat at perhaps once or twice a year. There has also been a revolution in the food industry, especially in Reykjavík, and many locations in the country are known as excellent restaurants, good raw materials, good production, good food. When Professor Viðar Már Matthíasson, a former high court judge, was brought to consider the strangely unprecedented situation that followed Covid, his conclusion was that this was fore·yeʹ, a situation to be avoided, in a better manner. Iceland's government at the time took this conclusion seriously, and this pole reached the hills, and they became resistant to and those systems all that have made it possible for these parts of employment to survive, just about in most cases, this invasion of the Covid virus in our lives. Of course, this is what is called spinning in the music. It's being improrier, they're reacting to a new reality almost from day to day, a week to week. No one saw that it would last so long, as it turns out. The fact that we're taking action at such critical times is good, good-looking, good-looking, good-looking, good-looking, good-looking. This has been taken into account in the indications of the best - known individuals, and I believe that this bill has been carefully developed. Officials have worked hard on this. The political has worked hard on this, and ahead of us is the treatment of the Economic and Business Committee, as well as the discussions here at the council. I'm going to give you a clear description of the support of this good bill and the current seminar and will likely take place in 2nd. then will I prophesy that it will be good, and good for the whole multitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to start by talking about what is in my mind completely self-denial and obvious truth, that uncertainty is an independent turn for a business. In terms of creating some sort of certainty, creating an issue, and some detriment, the government has completely failed the companies involved. The companies have, as we know, and I'm not going to go back to doing that story here specifically, over and over again, having a burdensome rule of action on the part of the government, of course, in the interests of the disease, but often in the way that the actions causing the changed management environment of these enterprises should take effect at midnight the next day, midnight after the announcement or within a few days. However, the government itself takes weeks and even months to deal with and cope with economic problems and the damages of these companies. The company has left this behind in their business situation, perhaps having benefits or support that they do not know who is and neither is when will it take effect. It is virtually impossible to keep a business going in such a business environment. The survival and employment of people are at stake. As a fellow officer of the Soviet Union, I will also allow myself to express a lot of concern over how the destination in Reykjavík might look, to continue in this business of the government. Of course, there must be some restaurants and clubs when traveling services are up and running again. Here again, I'd like to remind you that before Christmas, Christmas was the best. The financial secretary of support measures, whether you would like to talk about support or improvement in this context, in the interest of these enterprises, which we all know who, when new and harder to present, applied measures. However, there were no such suggestions except for the government's raising alcohol charge. There's been talk of the need for information, the need for analysis, and the need for stage arts, but after two years, I think it's fair to say there's nothing new about this. These are the same disease prevention procedures over and over again. The same measures as tools are repeated. In interviews, a surgeon has repeatedly described what these measures are, what he thinks is most effective, and he has been consistent in it. We know what economic actions are needed to respond, but they are both late and difficult to deal with. This bill here for the council is fine, as far as it goes. But this is not where we find all the resources needed. I feel that it is up to research for what reasons it is so difficult to simply perform the procedures needed for concomitantly disease prevention. The same principles apply to the disease prevention are that there are several tools in the chest and that the requirement must be that powerful control procedures, using the government, must comply with economic actions that are successful. There are now a number of examples to be considered in the case of erring ones. Experience is in place and we know what economic activities are needed. Business, employment, employment workers, should not be forced to leave for weeks in confusion as to what is to be expected. The economic measures must be carried out along with what the government and the three government groups are taking step in hand protection. It's as simple as that. I'm not here to discuss the content of alcohol abuses but simply this reality. These two must be held in hand. I have been thrilled to listen to members of the Independence Party at the Assembly Hall and even listen to a minister speaking here as if the environment of these companies has nothing to do with government policy. It is sometimes as fine members of Parliament and even ministers of the Independence Party did not realize that they belong to the government that makes these decisions. That's even. For this reason, at the coming of the Council of Health and financial Ministers, in this chamber, has been requested to report any new treatment procedures or to be extended by the Health Minister's Regulation and that this will be done on the same day. Sadly, at the beginning of the year, we are still in the reality that there seems to be something in the event of the pandemic. There is still uncertainty as to when we might expect the normal life of the people of the land to return to normal. And it doesn't matter how members or ministers of the Independence Party speak in the media about their position in civil rights when they speak in one way in the media and then follow a different policy at the government table. We request that the report be provided with information on the basis of individual decisions for the planned results and otherwise impact on society. We thus bear in mind that the subject here in the Assembly Hall is looking at the picture as a whole. All of us are aware of the great challenges of health care and health care professionals. I think the whole nation and society are very grateful to health care professionals for their work. On the other hand, members of the United States are also aware of the situation in some parts of the community and of the fears they face because people are concerned about how things work out. Therefore, we also wish ministers to inform us at the same time whether and when economic action will be made on behalf of the government in order to meet the economic and social consequences of each case's disease prevention. We can see that at this time, the presumption and reasoning of the government is taking place on more progressive discussions in the field of the council. We know that the largest challenge and challenges in the pandemic are still three; to defend life, health, and today, notably, simply to prevent high - quality health pressures, but as soon as it also results in the huge economic consequences of working as well as these large social factors and feelings of a nation, the cost of society in the long term is to have long - term unemployment. In the political field, the spotlight has been primarily on the interaction and authority barriers between health ministers and psychiatrists, of course, but the big political fundamental question has to do with the involvement of Congress and Ministers. It is the council's right, and it is the duty of the council to supervise the government. I can't allow myself to mention this aspect when we're here to discuss economic activities in the interests of a particular operator because it is so closely linked, there is a need for an increased attendance in this respect by obtaining grounds, arguments, opening up, and criticizing a discussion of where to go. Only on action input. As I mentioned before, a respectable president, my position is that this bill is good as far as it goes. It's necessary. It's time. In fact, there is evidence that it is too late. However, the first operation of the government for the continuation of due days helps companies in this situation little, of which it seems that most caterers agree. Of course, that's what it says. While the virus may croak, although the business takes over, the operators at best will arrive at a similar site as they once were, which is the best situation. These places will not be in the position of any loss or loss in the past few months. The delay of dues is comparable by sweeping the trash under the carpet, and this is what the government knows, and this is what the operators are getting in their poor hands. Hence, this strength is now being proposed, comparable to those formerly available. I ask myself, " Why does the government not look to past experiences and look at other options? ' Tax calculations are good for some operators, not for everyone. Short management restaurants, e.g. Even when we take into account exceptions in the bill, our feet are fixed against the others. And I think it's only right that we face the fact that we're talking about harm. We know from experience that the arrangement presented here can create incentives that are unhealthy in the environment. I believe that the part - time improvement route was the most efficient option to use at the beginning of the epidemic in order to support both the enterprises and the activities of the whole life and, of course, notably staff, that we are securing recruitment, securing jobs, securing the resources of people in these companies and sectors. I can now hear from a number of sources that people are afraid that data are ahead of them because the use of disease is extended every two to three weeks. It is the time frame that business men can work from today on. There's no expectations about it, looks like you, that the government is coming to a different place, despite the fact that it proclaimed it in the summer, including the government. The vice president of the Independence Party, the highest. Minister of State, to be a policy of government and a vision of the response to a pandemic so that all citizens and businesses could begin to see beyond two and three weeks of age. Now that the way they are infected in the community and the response of the government are as they are, and economic operations are becoming weakened, and too late, the risk is surely that we are looking at reports in this sector. I'm glad this bill is done, but I'm so disappointed that it's late. I challenge the government to do better and will cause disease prevention to be extended in the next few days as expected, she is ready at the same time with the answers on how to meet that position for working people and businesses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u67	V.E.G. President. I hereby bring a report of health care minister's referral for information on the pandemic situation Covid-19 in line with the requirements for the pandemic development. I will present my case in a timeline from the last report, taking into account the development of the epidemic from that time together with the medical facility. December 9th. I explained the development of the epidemic since this wave actually started, in July, with the last report being delivered in June. Since December some things have changed, and as we know it, a new variant, an ultrasound variant, has been replaced by the delta phenomenon and is much more contagious and has, in fact, changed the subject and called for changes in preventing disease. In the past, we have followed the basic advice and suggestions given by a pathologist. This has proved successful, and I stress that there has been no change in it; it has proved to be successful through this epidemic of two years to follow our greatest people and to base measures on science and the best knowledge at one time. Since the time I moved here, on December 9, there had been in force from November 13, the general meeting limit of 50 people who had managed to control a number of infections during that time. But there were changes in this wave around the time of my last report, and I made changes in general limits from 50 people to 20, which were valid on December 23. These measures were based on a significant increase in the number of infections and a much greater degree of transmission of the new ultrasound variant. With a much more spread of infection, the number of people in isolation and infestation that are our main contaminants increased rapidly, and much of this began to be cut down in various activities, as well as in health care, social services, and so on, so that propaganda was gaining weight. A land hospital in an emergency hospital on December 28 was introduced to an emergency. At that time, approximately 150 employees from the time they were in solitary confinement. Here and during the first days of January, the Minister's Committee on Syncirization held one seven consultations on the status of the pandemic and of the health system, disease control and human rights, disease prevention and vaccination, welfare, economics, employment and labour markets. Despite the small reduction in isolation by a disinfectant for three days and with a three-vaccinated period of care, there are about 10,637 individuals in solitary confinement and 12,438 enrolled in an environment. On January 5, the situation is summed up, and it notes in the Surgeon's memo that hospital treatment is likely to be 30 to50% less frequent. In addition, evolution is being examined. correspondent in Denmark However, due to the high spread of infectious diseases, an increase in hospitalisation can be expected. Because of the pressures on the health system and various functions, a disease - control doctor proposed continuous disease prevention procedures within the country, while changes in the environment. He also stressed the need for greater limitations in regard to evolution in order to control further growth. It was evident that the next few days, and then I turned to January 5th, would be very critical of the development for all of the land's activities, and especially for the health and hospital, and I was trying really hard. All the time, close cooperation with the hospital and all health care providers has been made in order to find extra space to improve the flow of the hospital and provide care. I'd like to say here, a respectable president, that this has been done with the wonderful staff who have maintained their service with the extra pressure of this epidemic for two years. We are late getting tired of giving commendation. On January 10, a common memo from the surgeon and the Surgeon will re-examine the situation in the light of the last few days in the health system, in the pathological procedures, and the more likely development of the region and the measures we need to take. This is important for me to draw up here in time to shed light on the importance of this dense conversation between our institutions and our governments and then on a conversation with the Council here today, a respectable president. At this point, the pathologist stressed that despite hardened restrictions, no more could have been achieved than to prevent infection. There would be a daily transmission of between 1,000 and 1200. On January 13, a disease - safety memo is received, while the P.R. emergency level is declared on January 11 with regard to the overall health - care system to coordinate the work programme. Then we're calling for staff from other institutions and from the independent working sector to come and lighten up. There's a pathologist with the development and situation of the hospital. On January 12, at that point, 45 patients were in hospital for Covid-19, including seven in intensive care and four in ventilation. At this time, models that had hospitalisation rates that were a combination of the delta virus and the ultrasound virus are being worked out. We know that many things have changed since the beginning of this wave with this new variant and a number of infections, and thus more uncertainty about the expected results of action. Thus, a disease - control doctor offered three options but referred to the experience of previous actions. That the motion of a pathologist was used to include the general number of restrictions from 20 people to ten, but the rules for school would remain unchanged and in accordance with the selected school rules. Those rules went into effect last Saturday. Yesterday, January 19, we made adjustments in the regulations of the environment and insulation. Those evaluated by a tracer with negligible exposure to infectious agents have access, by being careful for seven days, to escape from such a check-up without having to take a sample. This is based on the fact that approximately 1% of those who have been infected with infection have been infected, and these are mainly children, much of which is children and adolescents. This will reduce the sample collection of children. At that time, individuals in solitary confinement are made available for expansive purposes. All through the years, there has been progressive efforts to strengthen the hospital and its ability to cope with pressures. It has been accomplished by great cooperation and a number of measures, move and extra effort to ensure that we can handle the situation and have done it very well. But now the situation has only gained the weight of hospitals with some 200 people in isolation, with the lack of them on the floor. We've made up for it by negotiating with people in an independent sector to come in and help support the hospital staff. [[The president calls.]] I think I've reviewed most of the things I was going to say in my opening report, Mr. President, but I can add later in reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u68	Madam President. Today, only the optimistic tone of the atmosphere and the hospital for the development of the epidemic are heard. Then I hope we have no time left to review what we have learned, to collect data, and to evaluate what was going well and what was bad, to prepare to cope with the next epidemic, or the next wave we hope will still not have to deal with. I think it's very important that we go over disease prevention measures from the beginning of the epidemic as soon as possible while we're all fresh in mind. One of the reasons to resort to burdensome disinfectants is that our health - care systems are not equipped to cope with the epidemic. It is obvious that the requirements of forward workers and the long - range challenges of aging, human resources, and occupations that bring stress to the system need to be met. A tremendous strain on our future population has been almost constant for almost two years. The next epidemic, as it were, is predicted to become colder because of the pressures. What's the top order? A minister will do to prevent such an epidemic? The Communist epidemic has tested us physically, but social and moral questions have been considered. Freedom, justice, harmony - our guides as rulers would have to be a guide to all, and especially to the governments, in this challenging situation. Being free, however, does not mean being able to do anything regardless of the consequences. Those who insist will soon find out that such a thing will be death. Freedom comes with responsibility, that we take responsibility for our lives. We also have responsibility toward other people. Thus, my freedom includes respecting the freedom of others. During war and natural disasters, disabled people often become left behind and forgotten in government action. So I ask the highest. A minister who has considered the effects of disease prevention, as well as their reduction, has had in the health of disabled people and those who suffer from underlying diseases that may have suffered because of the freedom of all others and because of failure to accept disease prevention. Will the impact of disease prevention on the health of this vulnerable group and their families be detected or is there to be done, in cooperation with other departments? Has data been collected on the status of disabled persons during the epidemic and its impact on health, support, education, and employment as required by the United Nations Convention? Were disabled children or long - suffering children desperately in need of a vaccine in order to be vaccinated with children?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u69	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for your deposit and questions here. You're right. A senator entered at the beginning of his speech, it is brighter, and we have from our most skilled scientists who are now working evenly to analyze data and statistics. It is clear that the hospitalisation rate is reducing with increasing ultrasound levels in this range and the mean time varies from age group to age. This is stratified by age groups, and these days they are being processed to process data into the margin. Like what? A senator mentioned a brighter tone. From that record, I can see quite clearly that we can take reasonable steps to propose a disinfectant and that we can reduce general resources. Of course, the main preventive measures had been isolation and contaminating. We have the strongest weapons to control. I know that a psychiatrist is now inspecting the data as well as other scientists, both those working at the Covid parade department and treating patients in the hospital. What has only changed in this case is that because of the virus being so contagious, they developed infection in the hospital. It merely interferes with the project. I agree completely with what. A senator in that we are to review all those actions. In fact, this epidemic has in my mind exposed two things; one of the great strengths and the great health - care staff we have and the strength in many areas of the Landspians. I think if there's two things you can see from evidence that worked very well here compared to anywhere else, it's the view of the Covid gang to prevent inactivations and strong vaccination sites. We're here to learn from this. This, however, has exposed a weakness: We are subversive in health care. It is one of the greatest challenges to the future, such as we do today. A senator had a conversation about two days ago. It is a service group that has been in both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Department of Social Affairs has been monitored to influence these groups as well. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u70	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I suppose that's what. The welfare committee will follow up the questions about how to affect the disabled. The attendance of the Parliament to make decisions for the treatment of disease and its consequences is now louder than ever in the pandemic. The highest. A minister did not agree with me that it would be a good mixture, in the presence of the Commission and the council, that a minister would seek counsel from a psychiatrist, and at the same time a debate at the council's site on why it is necessary and how the legislature and financial authority need to respond by counterimportant measures? For example, if a minister did not follow the motion made by a prosecutor, he would have to account for it at the council and reason on why he was going to make his own suggestions or suggestions on the individual interests of the individual. In this long struggle with the virus, we have always had the best way of doing what our cohesive surgeon has done, and happily, most of us have done. Me and the Icelanders have a great hospice doctor who has hired us to be professional and balanced. V.E.G. However, the current health - service minister has left his suggestions and has granted leave behind his leaveovers in a short period of time. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that it was a mistake for a health minister during the last term to follow too often a disease prevention specialist's advice. Tells you the highest. A minister that the interests of the individual sectors had more frequent during the last term to follow the advice of a psychiatrist in the spirit that he himself has decided in his short term?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. I agree with what. A senator for the coming of the council should be in this conversation. I assume that when we revise the Disease Control Act, we'll discuss it in particular. I also believe that as the epidemic has passed, the discussion has changed. The parameters change evenly as we get new variations, as they do in other epidemics. Hopefully this will continue to be the case, causing less sickness, and looking to other factors will improve the discussion. I agree with what. A senator that has been very successful for us, and I came into my speech to follow the advice of scientists. We have a highly qualified pathologist who has a role to play and offers well - developed suggestions. I think we're going to have to separate the arrangements he's making and the terms that are special. There are a number of people who enter the Ministry and the surgeon general's office, public defences and psychiatrists when it comes to various types of activities in the country. They need to be taken into account when switching to military action with equalitarian and moderate size. On the other hand, one of the main suggestions may not have been followed the direct suggestion made in the aid of a disease - safety expert's memo, which was about the school program suggested by a psychiatrist for us to postpone five days. [[The president calls.]] But it has been the start of the epidemic to keep schools open with one exception when two additional days of Easter break were given. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the tour. During our last conversation, I was among the many members of the council who called for more and more help from the legislature to decide how to get disease prevention. It is far too bad to say that since then people and businesses have been seriously limited to them and since then without any presence in the council. After less than two years, this problem is culminating. And speaking of two years soon, we've lived here like a two-to-three-year plan. It doesn't work any more. We need to face the bad news that the virus is here to exist, but we may also be alert to the dramatic development that it is much more dangerous than it once was, and that with vaccination, treatment, and milder habits, the situation is much different and better. It is long time for a government and a council to take up their legal and democratic duties and take the lead in leading an Icelandic society out of this predicament. The role and leadership of a pathologist and the trident were invaluable at the beginning of an epidemic, but it was always known that it would not be easy to take power back into the realm of politics. However, this is inevitable, and it has to happen no later than now. I hope to the highest. A health minister agrees. In the acute two years, limitations have been provided to protect either the health system, to maintain the level of infections, to maintain hospitalisations, in order to address uncertainty. No criteria have survived for more than a few days or weeks, even between government meetings during the same week. Because of the altered situation in the outbreak, much of vaccinated Icelanders seem to live in fear, not of infection with Covid, but of exposure to contagion or isolation. Because it's the highest. A health minister will be talking about a wide range of goals to protect the lives and health of the people of the land, and I may mention again our children and young ones in this context. I'll get to that in the second speech. Finally, I remind you of the highest. Again, it is our community obligation to protect those who are more sensitive, and it is not just those groups that are more sensitive to Covid infection. There are also people with dependence who have not had access to life-saving treatment and AA meetings because of limitations. It is also people who are coping with spiritual problems and who are even more vulnerable to isolation, and it is also our children. Have these sensitive groups e.g. Is it forgotten at these difficult times?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for her introductorys. Hv. A senator calls for a greater and more efficient assembly arrival, and I can agree with that. It is desirable for the council to have access to this conversation, as is stated in the law today. We can take a better discussion of this when we review the applied laws. However, I would like to point out that at a week of committees, after the council got back together after Christmas holiday, and in a budget talk for Christmas and Christmas and New Year's, a very tight conversation has been made. Hv. A welfare committee has promoted the approach of ministers, and dozens of scientists have come and informed the committee by prisoners, which is well - known. Now that the council is on its way, we're discussing a report, and it's part of this conversation that's so important. Yes, blessedly, this ultrasound virus is a threat, and in the historical context, it is what is happening to the development of such epidemics. Hence, there are some things that look to the better, and the situation is certainly different and better. That's why we're here. A senator in particular disagrees, and I'm just saying right here and now, it's that freedom bites its tail so badly in this context. Hv. A senator makes it clear that defending the lives and health of the people of the land is the primary obligation of health authorities. But we must not forget that it is at the same time a primary responsibility to make sure that our health - care system handles the situation, handles the care of the patients who need to lie down. When there is uncertainty about the development of variations and the number of infections as widely as you can see, we must secure - isolation and infestation are key factors in maintaining the spread of infectious diseases. When the number of people in isolation or convalescents is not able to participate in community activities while, at the same time, they are controlling the spread of infectious diseases. In the land hospital, for example, as many as 200 workers have been missing. Let us remind ourselves also regarding the care of Covid patients that many of them become very ill and require intensive care and even mechanical ventilation. This puts the pressure twice as much as any other care. Our health care providers are heavily laid down, and we need to consider the balance that exists between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. I heard the highest. Ministers positive for the conversion of disease laws in increasing the assembly's entrance to the premeditation process, and I welcome it. I agree with that, of course, the National Hospital should be so prepared that he can function properly that it will not be the standard here that society will calm down to meet the health system. We've had two years to make the knots, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's been two years. A health minister to the joy of giving in that assignment. But I want to return to the well - being of young people. During the past few days, important decisions have been made in behalf of children, including children. about the changed sample implementation, and it's a good thing if it's been late. I would like to encourage a health minister to go further in the interest of our children and to stick to what he says about protecting their life and health. Today, thousands of children have been cut into repeated isolations and isolations for years. There is a long time in the lives of children, and there has been no failure on the contrary. At this point, babies are being scraped out of their daily routine and routine. For all too many children, that means being alone in harmful situations at home. It is entirely unnatural for the school directors to work day and night after the transmission of infectious children and, in effect, take control decisions on their environment. I don't know that this behavior is being kept in any of our neighboring countries and no one of us seems as isolated to children as in this country. Now it is urgent that the school directors and teachers can care for our children's education and will be turned away from using children in the utmost limits. It is our duty as a community to protect our children from what threatens our life and health. That's why I'm going back to the highest. Health Ministers that he takes the lead in not carrying on the vital rights of children, their lives, and their health to protect others beyond their own. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u75	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this information and the discussion of our children and young ones, and I agree with each word, we are always especially concerned with this group. When it comes to vaccinating, it is like all other vaccinations that we hide our experts from taking care of them and that we have done very well in historical context. We have the most skilled people who make decisions and only happen after the studies of medicinal products that need to be agreed with the EMA first in this case in Europe and then the Agency in this country. A Dentist must be made up of a very clear assessment of the decision to give the vaccine. I'm here on a matter of long ago the interests I've been calling for. Similarly, the procedure of such vaccinations, perhaps in particular in excess of other general vaccinations, is difficult, and I think health care has been very well maintained on this matter. Since the decisions that have been made regarding sports and hobbies and school, it is about that, from this public health relationship, the mental and social well - being of children and teenagers, that we keep the most active in sports and hobbies and school activities and that we have achieved in this country very well, so well. Then we are watching this group as we do other groups with equal hands, and the surgeon general regularly sums up information about children's well - being. It is only very important when we then make decisions about it, if we need to take further steps toward this particular group. [[The president calls.]] But I wholeheartedly agree with every word I have. A senator says about young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u76	A respectable president. We're here to discuss disease prevention measures for Covid-19 and we're different here in the north from the south. Today, there is an average of 64 days in New Zealand, 85 of which are infected and over a week period of 7 days. But here we are infected with 1,500. We are more than ten times fewer than New Zealand, yet it seems that we are far worse in dealing with this problem. There's supposed to be all kinds of alarm bells, that we should be in the position we are today. But the problem is that we've been fighting this virus for two years, and we always seem to be in the same situation, except that the virus is changing, and as we have seen, the ultrasound virus is not as bad. But I just have to say, as it is, that it may be less haled for some, but it can be very damaging to many. I heard the highest. A health minister earlier says that the life and health of the country should be taken into account, but should we not take into account everyone's life and health? Can we just keep watching Covid-19 forever? I am extremely worried about the people who are waiting for all manner of action. There are children there, but their waiting problem has grown dramatically, and there is increasing from day to day. We have people waiting to get help from a psychiatrist, and we know that they need a lot of status at the Land Hospital. They would have to be 31, but they're only 22. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: What is his plan to make sure once and for all that those who need help for Covid who are in a position to be unable to receive mental health care, unable to obtain a service that is entitled to them and on a waiting list - what vision does he have for these people, and when does he feel that these people will receive their services?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his introductory. He drew out a standard of transmission, and somehow it came from the number of infections that we were doing something less in the fight with this epidemic. I think it would be dangerous to indicate it because, according to a number of standards, we have been very successful in this difficult time. Thanks especially to health professionals who have dealt with this with us and scientists. If we compare ourselves to the North countries, when it comes to death, we've managed best to care for our patients and prevent them from harming us. In many ways, we have done very well. It has been a difficult task ever since, and it has changed a lot. When it comes to this ultrasound wave, we're looking at a very similar trend in other countries. You must always take into account where we are in the wave, in comparison with other nations, and then take into consideration what it means under stress on the health system so that we can make sure that the health - care system is able to do this. At the beginning of an epidemic, this age has grown very much, but so far it has been successful. The cooperation has been good, I'd like to mean, between health care providers in the country, health institutions in the country, and the independent activities of the sector that have shown enormous social responsibility and that we have agreed to care for. It should be noted that in such a challenge, other services are still to be performed. Especially in health matters, we have already begun work that may be said to have been based on the policies that began here in 2005-2016, with work done at the council, and with such a mental - health institution as my predecessor, which provided very helpful information. [[The president calls.]] These data are being worked out to improve the quality of our mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's response. I cannot help but agree with him that we need to spit on our hands of mental health. But I say in my own time about the goal of a psychiatrist, he watches 500 people get infected, and then I'll say we're in a very different position if we were in New Zealand. But let's leave it in the middle. There's something else I'm really worried about, and that's the aftereffects of Covid. There are a large group of people who fall out of this virus badly and need help, need physical therapy, need to get to a Smokeyunda, have to be rehabilitated. At the same time, however, there is an incredibly large group that cannot afford to go to a physical therapist because it is so expensive. Then there's another thing, it seems that Iceland's Medical Insurance is at war with most of everything in the health system and especially with physical therapists. They finally agreed with speech pathologists, but now they're at war with the U.S.A. in mid - Covid age, an institution that's reacting to Covid and trying to care for their patients. But then this institution, health insurance, starts to attack U.S.A. for responding. At the same time, we're here at the council bringing bills to help privateized companies in towns that are damaged by the end and the rest. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Has he studied what's going on between health insurance and U.S.A.? Does he find it normal to go this way, to charge the prosecutor for trying to do this vital service, helping these people who really need help? [[The president calls.]] What can happen to such ones if they do not receive the privilege and need the service they have? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u79	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson. This is important, as is any other service, an addiction program that we provide in a health - care facility, so I start where I need to go. A senator ended. He draws up differences between the Treaty, the Medical Insurance of Iceland and the U.S., who have a contract to provide this particular service, which is a very important part of dealing with addiction and this disease. We have seen this, and it has been that for a long time, that the U.S., the Vog, and their institutions have provided a very important treatment for this disease. But there's been a disagreement between parties. It is in the health insurance law that when such differences arise, treaties should resolve these differences. The General has emphasized that there is no reexamination of Ministers and Ministers must simply not enter into such cases. In view of the importance of this treatment and on what basis it is for decades, how important a part it is of health care, however, I hold high hopes that the operators will be able to resolve this issue and reduce the information that solves this situation. I'm stressing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u81	A respectable president. At the beginning of a pandemic, the wise decision was made to accompany experts in the path - control program. This has helped us to base on the advice of a psychiatrist, the best international knowledge about the epidemic at one time, and the statistics collected within the country. I still think it's going to work. Then I'd like to be happy to have us back on a regular discussion of the treatment precautions here at the Congress Hall and to encourage more ministers to report us or to take up discussions about the pandemic procedures. It is important to look for benefits at any given time. When we consider the benefits, however, it is important that we always look at the main objective of our lives and health and ensure effective health systems. Thus, during the past two years, the measures have been relatively simple, limiting communication, and maintaining protection. The threat of protection and response has been a work of cooperation, as we have all agreed on one thing to cope with the pressures of life. The emissions have been followed each time by the outbreak's situation, and comparison with other countries is important, although action must always depend on the state of the wave in the country, the number of infected and ill, including the impact on people who work in the health system. I also feel that there is still reason to remember and to think that for two years we have experienced the time that none of us expected, even though we have learned about biology that we could always have a pandemic. But we have also experienced this unique time and cooperation with the international community, the international scientific community, and the politics around the world, with clear goals set out to isolate themselves into the development of vaccines and to negotiate and agree on research and development. Now we have become a very well - vaccinated people. The percentage of vaccinees in this country is likely by the highest known in the world, both because of the benefits of the availability of vaccines and generalisation of vaccinees. So I want to ask the highest. A minister of what that will mean for us in the decisions we will have to make for the next few days. However, I am concerned about nations and parts of the world that do not have the same access to vaccines. I'm asking if the highest. A minister can inform me of international cooperation with vaccinations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u82	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Senator Anna Sævarsdóttir for her deposit here. She considered how our reactions have been and how important it has been to build on the solid support of our offices, as we have put it in our behalf, the surgeon of the land, the psychiatrist, the publicist, and thus to rely on reliable scientific support in cooperation with those who have been building up from the beginning of the Covid House Hospital and then in cooperation with the health system all as a result of infection, etc. This has been an excellent teamwork. I'll admit that I haven't been in this office long enough as a health minister, but I'd like to state that, of course, we knew it was important, and the image has been very solid. But the cooperation and conversation that we have every day, and with the Ministry, and the contribution made by health professionals and the mental attitude, are really admirable. Hv. A candidate is involved in the strong vaccination status. It's made a big difference here for us. It's made a difference. And the timing matters, too. When you look in comparison with other nations and others, there are two main challenges. As a result, we have been blessed to avoid losing this in a separate analysis on the basis of vaccinations when we are evaluating it from the Constitution. It's very important. Then there's Covid out at Land Hospital. It's very pronounced with the number of people who get a walk and comes every day, take medication and early treatments, and get people out of the way that they've really made a difference in the fact that the hospital has handled the situation with close hands, just saying what they are doing. Of course, it is only because of the intelligence and outwardness of those who are involved in it at the hospital and in the conversation that exists between our scientific people, who are clearly in the world's highest order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The medical minister's answer, and even though I did not raise the question, the minister continued the discussion I had in my previous talk about this unique cooperation in the health - care system we have experienced, and he is now determined to see amazing flexibility and visionability. In the preceding week, we discussed the challenges there, possible weaknesses, and how to deal with them. But I would like to enter and encourage you to see that there will also be an effort to discern the strengths that have been displayed. So I would like to ask a minister if he saw what is best based on the strengths shown here, just to counteract the weaknesses that are inevitable to follow as little a health system as we run in this country. I'd also like to introduce to another challenge that I think health care professionals in general have successfully met, i.e. when they have to have a national sample to establish the PCR samples on the same day for analysis to the capital. This has been very important and has generally been successful, but there are challenges in our transport options. Recent news reports that by the end of the afternoon, it might be difficult to establish samples on the East on the same day for analysis. I really hope that's it. I want to come back to the question that I had really found in my first talk, i.e. My concern is for the nations and parts of the world, which do not have the same access as for the status of the countries and its impact on the ongoing development of the pandemic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How is the international cooperation in this field?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator later answers. In the previous answer, there was a why. A senator enters international cooperation and ensures that a vaccine will be brought to the world, especially those countries that have less readily paid access to, or may be able to buy, to the extent that perhaps Western nations have done. We have participated in European cooperation in bringing drugs to these sites and we will continue to do so so that excess doses get there and get used to it. I think it would be interesting to have a complete summary of what happened. The welfare committee for this cooperation and how it looks to the future. Hv. A senator came to the strength that appears to us as soon as our weaknesses are exposed, and the health system has shown tremendous strength. People have been working under a lot of stress for a long time, and we have already begun our conversation with health - care officials throughout the country about how we deal with this, because when this is over and it relieves the pressure, there are often aftereffects that turn to coldness and tension, as well as setting up a coordinated operation throughout the country for health care professionals. But I want to emphasize this social responsibility, now expressed in cooperation and care, to handle the situation, that is the interaction we need to see the future. [[The president calls.]] We need to clearly define the hospital's role in this important scientific work that has remained, he can continue his separate service, i.e. Experts, staff education, and training in these complex operations, operating rooms, ICUs, and emergency conventions - perhaps moving away from the hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a interaction that I see to be able to become more powerful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u85	The president asks the speakers to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for your report. Two things are very important to me during the discussion today. On the one hand, there is a mass lack of long - term plans and a vision from the government in these matters and the consequences of both the pandemic and the action taken, but the call for the discussion is getting louder and louder, as we have heard here today. Not to be overlooked is the high cost of social limitations. This applies not only to the business industry and the loss of individuals but also to the social integration of an entire generation. High school students who started studying the same year as Covid-19 were first diagnosed soon to graduate. Various measures have been taken to help companies and other partners deal with the economic consequences of disease prevention, but the consequences are not just financial. There is no focus and all discussion on how governments will handle the consequences of the actions for the people themselves and will assist those who have suffered the worst from these actions. One serious economic result of the pandemic is something that governments have been totally asleep in view. It is widely known that an emergency and any combination of threats to survival can lead to division in society. These are not just ahead of us; they are already becoming evident here on land as anywhere else. Because of what is happening, scapegoats are searched for, and they are often looked for among minorities, such as immigrants and others who find it harder to carry a hand for their heads. I've suggested it before and I'm going to reiterate my proposal here that the government is attacking a targeted campaign against such division in society. Along with such a campaign, it is necessary to strengthen and support the institutions and other agencies who have the responsibility of caring for one of the most important foundations of our community, the rights of our citizens. It must also be considered that this appears to be the first step towards recovery for those who have received a full booster vaccination. Such decisions may remind us that there is a degree of discrimination. It may be that the basis for discrimination is perplexing, but it must still ask the question, Is such discrimination in harmony with the protection of civil rights to which the public should enjoy and whether a head has been considered in the decision - making process? Therefore, I ask a minister: In making decisions on the measures taken in the cause of disease prevention, I consult lawyers, specialists in human rights, to ensure that the preferred method, both in steps of the pandemic and their delinquency, does not violate an order of equality and other fundamental human rights directly or indirectly?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir, who may have tried much more with the epidemic. I think it's normal. When there's a sudden onset of disaster, with complete uncertainty, we know human beings that we call for guidance, and we're all willing to join the rope because there's a lot of uncertainty. That's when it's the first and last thing about realizing the situation, and we're all going a lot easier in the same direction. To me, harmony must mean that once a decision has been made, we all agree to make that decision. This does not mean that we have different opinions as information and knowledge grow. That is really what happens when we get older, and we grow in understanding, knowing, and learning more about the limitations that hinder us in our daily activities. They are administrative, and it is important to evaluate all decisions accordingly. In effect, as we have gained greater control of this project, more knowledge has come to pass, and a rift has already begun to soften the course of action, it has gone from complete protection to the course of modulation. Hv. A senator asks about this elaborate discrimination, whether or not it is determined by decisions. I say yes. I'm gonna take one example. We have a blessed vaccination situation, and it has not developed into that we have been making decisions based on vaccinations or separations based on vaccinations. According to the scientific evidence that booster vaccination is confirmed by studies conducted by both Britain and Denmark, we may be less susceptible to the spread of infection and transmission of infectious diseases. On this basis the decision is made. And, yes, this was determined from this separation on the basis of vaccination, and in a constitution, this is of other factors, and it survives the judicial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u88	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. It seems that this will soon be over. Although it has been falsely claimed in the past through this process, I am not going to take on the role of the one who reduces that hope, at least Not right here, right now. Although much has been done in government operations, as I mentioned earlier, I have been greatly lacking the failure of the government to resist long - term vision and plan ahead in order to face the challenges we face in this pandemic. I fear that the same will happen when the worst is over and when it comes to the resources needed to cope with the consequences of what has happened before. Of course, I am referring to both, the pandemic itself, and the reaction of the government to him. Emergency conditions like a pandemic are a shock. It's a shock for the nation. It's a shock for individuals. It is often only when the storm is relieved that the effects of shock become clear. It is the responsibility of the government to anticipate the consequences both possible and likely, and that may even be under attack, but in my opinion, little or no attention has yet been given. So I'm going to point another question to the highest level. Minister: What measures will a minister take to cope with the effects of a pandemic and its action to the public in the country? Then I mean psychological support and other measures. Is there any point in making a future plan for this rather than always putting out the fire?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator here has a very good question. For long - term vision and having some plans, it's often the way we react that we keep on feeling like we're putting out fires, but then we can start building up. And it should be acknowledged that as the epidemic has changed, the way the virus has developed, we have been more and less involved. On the other hand, we've been living here - if I'm just taking the money as an example, it's a conscious decision to keep the government going through this epidemic. Then, it is clear that the epidemic is unconformable in the sector. If we take the economic breakdown and, in the face of some kind of crisis or disaster, in this case, a pandemic is a pandemic, then it's going to end in disintegration. It's just the image. We need to have social limitations in order to control the spread of infectious diseases, and it is evident that industry related to tourism, restaurants, meeting attendance, occasion, and culture will be the worst. We have tried to cope with it by means of economic counter measures. And then, when we see that we're getting out of this, there's really hope and light in the numbers of those that turn toward the hospital frequency and the average time, that we, the health system, can handle this here, and we see it in other nations that are two, three weeks ahead of us in this wave that we're going off -- then I'm expecting jobs to get over. Then we've begun our appointment in the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and Mental Health, and a certain work with medical institutions to put our healthcare professionals in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u90	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you three questions to the highest level. Secretary of health. First: I'd like to ask the minister if or what he intends to do to meet the high standards that the people of the country are living on for a sample of the possibility of Covid infection. A small number of clinics or districts are available for rapid testing, let alone PCR tests on weekends, e.g. in large urban areas, such as the Sea of the Year and the Mixedose, that have to go to Akureyri. More might be mentioned, which has an even more intense and longer way to go. In order to reduce the number of infections and reach them it is important that they be identified as soon as possible. Already, there are more rules to clear up and shorten the time people think is even more important. Another question: For people with cancer, weeks and even days are important for successful recovery. This applies equally to the early diagnosis of appropriate treatment. How does a minister weigh the situation against cancer patients who have had to be postponed because of the contribution made by Landspira and his staff by coping with the consequences of Covid infection? Are the tables being taken to ensure a better position for cancer sufferers, especially if the epidemic continues to increase or prolong its length, I'm not talking about if those who speak for most of the bedsides in the treatment of disease prevention must have their wish? Third question: Among the prospective members of the epidemic, workers have a basic and high school, which has been working long in a very difficult situation, but not always had the recognition they deserve for their jobs. Does the health minister's discretion further progress, along with the minister of education and child care, to have further and direct conversation with the representatives of these people about their circumstances, their challenges, their solutions, as well as their sports movements?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for the questions. The first question involved the regional situation against specimens, and that is to say. A senator notes that it can be a long time apart and needs attention and action, let's say. There has also been a test of design in many medical institutions throughout the country when it comes to the demonstrations and health care aspects of these institutions. They have been able to cope with this by negotiating with private members to perform samples with them and then be able to move between positions to respond to such a situation. I think it's just done quite well, at least in our last conversation, but it's been trying to do this show, that's right. A senator says. For cancer treatments, analysis and suspension of action, I can't claim that position, I'd just have to find out what the situation really is. According to my best knowledge, the hospital has been able to maintain its balance, but, of course, it's a lot of stress, and there are some things that give in to it. But to make any claim, I'd have to check the position on this particular feature before I begin to say too much about it. Then the discussion is effective and the pressure on the schools. You're right. A senator comes on, there has been an added load in this age of spread of infectious diseases on various activities, especially at school and, of course, throughout the epidemic, the pressures of teachers, and the schools that have been open all along. I encouraged you, and I know it's been an active conversation all along, and now it's the day between the head of the school and the university authorities. There are many factors in this epidemic that have been very positive when it comes to maintaining an active conversation and working to solve the problem, and schools have been severely tested in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u92	President. V.E.G. Secretary of health. I thank you for the answers and hope that a minister will follow through further. We have been successful up to this point in government action; in disease prevention, immunization and other measures they have taken, to minimise the impact of the Covid pandemic on the lives and health of people, but also in minimising the economic and social effects of the pandemic. It contained the predecessor of the current health minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, very well observed where people's life and health were always put first. It is important that the current health minister continues to follow a cautious path he has made in many respects, and it is good to know that he will stress that he will continue to follow the advice of a health care professional. The nation's stand has also made a big difference in how it has been made. We cannot offer that the most sensitive part of the nation must be separated from the community so that others can enjoy the full amount of freedom to carry out their assignments, regardless of its life - threatening circumstances. It's not human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u93	V.E.G. President. It may have been the second round advice for what is being said here, and I'll be more likely to follow the information that stood out and turn, including to perform surgery, cancer treatments. Then came the reason. A senator is entering my premeditation, the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and I can't say anything I wouldn't agree with. Senator. I have developed the habit of continuing to accept the guidance given to my predecessor in the ministry. I stress that it is very important that we continue, especially when the epidemic and other viewpoints are over, and we desire to get out of it, and the discussion begins to grow stronger about recovery and the like, that other factors are important, that we accept the guidance and guidance of our most respected scientist and psychiatrist, and take into account his suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u94	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Health Minister for reporting this report to the council. I must say, however, that the government message and the government party that follows the rest of the story are inexplicable, paradox, and not really acceptable. It is not the only case with a health minister. A recent report at Station 2 found that much more of the independence party is questioning the rights of the severe victims, and they are very tough today. In fact, 12 of the 17 members of the party do not support the government in these matters, of which there are three ministers. This is amazing. Twelve members of the council, including three Ministers, do not agree with the severe limitations of their own government. A deputy member of the Southwestern Parliament leads to a parade and demands that a disease - control doctor tell you what he is trying to prevent children from being vaccinated. We hear these senators repeatedly speaking against their own government decisions. They talk and talk but do nothing. These 12 senators, and of these three ministers, have real power in this case, but they choose not to use it, either at the government table or as a body of Congress. They speak beautifully and with insight into freedom and human rights, repeatedly pointing out the consequences of severe disease - control programs, social and spiritual consequences, and dozens of millions of financial expenses. But it is not enough to be cool on the twitter; to just stand with the freedom in word, but not in actions is hypocrisy. Rather than actually being free, it was the responsibility of independent senators yesterday to sit under shame from the chairman of a legal committee here at the council, while a member of the VG C. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, accused them of rioting and building her stand on ide rather than on evidence. I feel compassion for these many members of the Independence Party, and I agree with them materially on much when it comes to the epidemic. It is time to re-think our approach to disease prevention, in view of the milder variations and vaccinations, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Einarsdóttir Mist Einarsdóttt said right here. But I can't understand the long - range mood for almost two years, since it's a group of powers. I'd like to know about that from the highest level of my life. The minister of health for why he and the prime minister speak of this bitter action within the governments and the governments when it is absolutely obvious that it is not. And how does the minister feel that his fellow ministers and members of the largest management party do not raise these severe limitations, in view of the fact that the heads of the governments and the authorities have repeatedly said that the measures are not effective unless they are a social stand? It is obvious that no matter whether people speak for freedom or limit, whether they come from ideals, human rights, human health, public health, financial resources, or all of this, there is no result when those who are to be hired want to control the ship in different directions. This would not be risking the government's disease prevention goal, the highest. Ministers of health, that individual ministers speak firmly, often in public, about and against their own decisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Guðmundsson Sigmundsson for this discussion here and what he asks for his message. A message needs to be clear. It's about the balance that I've established in the past in this discussion, the conflict between freedom and limitations. Why are we doing all of this? What I think my friends in the government forget when it comes to freedom is looking to this balance, which is normal with what has been seen in this epidemic, and statistics starting to make us hope that we can begin to lose our limits. Then we must not forget why we are doing all of this. Let's just say we'd take care of everything. What would happen? The spread of infectious diseases would be higher than we could control in the health system. There's a lot of trouble, so it's just not available. Let us look at our basic preventive measures and the tools that have worked best here and elsewhere to prevent spread. If you give too much freedom, you don't have a general limit, then these options, as they have been so widespread, are 20,000 people. It's all over the business, so it's always a balance. When it comes to asking directly whether it's not - I did not write down the question, but it is the kind of reconciliation that is important. We'll discuss our cooperation in the government. Then there is a conflicting message. Of course, people may have differing views, better yet, but I don't think they're good and that they're confusing the discussion, they undermine the action they're taking because the situation is important. I never often say that once the decision has been discussed and decided, it is so important that I believe that this is what needs to be done, based on the proposals of our leading scientists and psychiatrists, we agree to make these decisions work. [[The president calls.]] That's a stand in my mind, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u96	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much concerned with the answer. I thought it was interesting. I found it interesting to hear him describe that individual government ministers are actually trying to undermine the aims of this same government. You don't really understand his words differently, and you don't have to go into any interpretations of it, he just said it right down to full feet. What I'm trying to do in this is that if the government has a different policy that here is supposed to be a strict control limit, I have some doubts and actually go on increasing by day how extensive they are to be in the light of a changed position, a new variant and a vaccination, and other things, but if people have talked to this conclusion, they're obviously free to look at them. But being a government minister is a huge responsibility. What a responsibility it is to be part of a group that is responsible for at least the nation's well - being! in any rhythm and in any agreement with the objectives and measures set to achieve some efficacy against this virus. I find it quite amazing that it can be such a large part of the government, one fourth, and such a large proportion of the government parties that speak directly against these objectives. I would also like to know, because we only talked about the coming of the assembly, and we in the convention have talked a lot about the arrival of the council and have contributed all kinds of things in that regard, how far the top. A health minister would want to accept these. We'd like a health minister, and after some other Ministers, to show up here at the council, to support the decisions made earlier that day at a government meeting or at least as soon as possible and as soon as the same day comes with an economic package. Because it's not just that we know what's best when it comes to preventing ourselves, after two years we're starting to know what's going on in the economy too. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. A health minister willing to take the matter so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This is a candidate's suggestion and discussion of how the situation works best. I don't think it's unusual that people have different opinions, but in such situations, when a number of other factors may become more active in the discussion than with the virus, when we have a softer variant, and there are indications that there are a number of other factors that can be removed, the timing of the conversation is all that matters, and the timing of the action. None of us are expert on this field or are assured of it. Rather, we are here considering the suggestions made by a psychiatrist. There is nothing unusual about people's differing views about how fast these things can be. We're just in that position right now, and it's my focus in this, in terms of the health system that we have a Hospital in an emergency because 200 people are in isolation - and that's where we come to this balance between restrictions and freedom - and then we have to man it. That is what we have done by numerous actions I considered earlier. How quickly we manage to lift the limits is then a question, but all of us would like to go back to our usual routine of daily life and would be better now if people didn't have an opinion on this. But we must not forget that we need to get through this so that our health - care system can handle the situation day by day. That's the main focus here. With the presence of the council, I have entered earlier today that I believe that it is the most desirable place in the council. This, however, is always a matter of where we are in this situation, how fast decisions need to be made, and what arrangements are made for making decisions under the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u98	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion here. V.E.G. Minister. When a person chooses to give up his freedom for greater security, he is at risk of losing his prayers. We are now, less than two years after Covid-19 did first act out, at the point where we have to return, stop approaching issues as we did when less knowledge of the virus was made, stop limiting national civil rights, stop major business users. I already say that I have more people lying in the hospital with Covid than with Covid. When the first ultrasound variant of Covid-19 was detected here on land on December 1, 2000. already published information that the variations were weaker than the ones mentioned earlier. It has been seven weeks since, and the whole world has come to realize that variation results in far less sickness than nations have, so it is beginning to regresses in terms of preventative measures. However, the government in Iceland is still wondering if this could be true, now last Monday, when a psychiatrist told me he couldn't tell you how serious the ultrasound abnormality was. The government's efforts to give up after the stigma they took two years ago are strong, but we have come to the site where they are concerned. In this context, I'd like to ask a few questions for the highest level. Minister, have the two in the first round and add to the second. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister, whether it is possible that a number of people have been sent into solitary confinement to do nothing. By screening tourists on the border, it was found that a large proportion of identified individuals did not have active infections. Seemed to be the figures available on the government information site but are no longer there, suggests that this applies to about a quarter of those identified in the border. The screening within the country has not made a distinction between active and inactive infections but has put everyone under the same hat that has been passed on to all diagnosed persons in isolation. Why has this scientific approach been applied not within the country but only on the border? If the proportion is the same within the country and on the border, then it can be estimated that today it is 4 thousand in isolation without active infection. On top of everything else, of course, it is perfectly crazy. V.E.G. Minister: Could it be that for a quarter of a thousand people are in isolation without active infection? Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the programme for aseptic technique. Yesterday it was reported that the aseptic precautions have been changed so that sample removal is required, instead of being aseptically extended from five days to seven days. A report on the Management Board's Web notes that only 1% of individuals who were aseptically infected by aseptic conditions during the first 16 days of this year were diagnosed with Covid following a test. Much of that group was school - age children. [[The president calls.]] So I ask the minister: Isn't a minister quite forgetting his viewpoints by maintaining aseptic technique? [[The president calls.]] It must be taken into account that aseptic technique has a significant effect on children and adolescents as this can be done for example. Do not engage in sports and social activities while they are under aseptic conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Berghir Ólason's inn very good. We are certainly in that place two years later, with new information that we are actually laying over today, and we are collecting data. For instance, it has been shown that the average time that counts is important because at this point no one is putting on restrictions. We'd all like a lift. Let's just keep it clear. We'll take care of that. We want our community in the first beat. That is why we and our major scientists are now looking at how this is stratified by age and how the average time is working. I know this discussion at the hospital about whether people are being infected inside. Of course, if you are infected with this disease in the hospital, you need special care. There's only twice the pressure on employees. That's the way it is. The main reason we cannot take these steps very quickly now in recovery, e.g. To lift all the meeting boundaries or something, as if to say: " Those who get sick, they just need to lie in, and we just receive them, is the situation that exists that we have high up to 200 people in the hospital who are in isolation who are unable to do the job. In fact, the isolation process has been relieved. But this is the situation. This has been achieved by a variety of solutions, as I have considered many times. As soon as we take control of this situation and get people back, and we can relieve the emergency levels in the hospital and break free ahead of the P.R.P. Then we can do it together, like we can. A senator pulled out here, cutting this down, based on the evidence on this one 1% as of any given moment. A senator came in here. Then we can relax the screening program that has been very heavy, especially for children and adolescents because it has taken five times as long. I believe that the figures that are showing up to us will enable us in our sensible steps to lift and balance and master the situation. [[The president calls.]] That's how I watch it today. It's the manifestation. In addition, it will be very interesting to see the results of Icelandic genetic analysis to see how widespread this is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister would have answered, but that would have been fine if he had answered the questions, for the highest. A minister spoke for three minutes about anything but what he was asked. So I'm going to allow myself to reiterate the questions and remind the minister to answer, whether or not it may be in solitary confinement for a quarter of a thousand without active transmission. Why has it been hardheaded in its own way on the borders and within the country? And only because of the highest. A minister admitted that 200 of the hospital staff were in isolation, if these proportions are comparable among the hospital staff, and in the border there were 50 that could be released within the day of the individual isolation. Then came the highest. There is no way to address what I asked about the aseptic system, whether it is a burden, so that it is unnecessary, and that the minister has forgotten to be moderate. In addition, I would like to add a question that turns to a minister's having the basic obligation to protect his life and health. How does the minister weigh the overall effects of his actions on those who are subsequently affected by government action? Are national health and life being affected? How is this done, and where is it available? Is there an effect on the life and health of those who suffer an important life - sustaining action that is delayed into the picture? How is that done, and where do they lead? Are children and adolescents affected spiritually because of limited exposure? How is that done, and where do they lead? This is important, particularly in view of the discussion that has been presented here in an unprepared inquiry that there is a basis for such decisions, how they are made, how they are reasoned, and that a body of Congress can view and criticize the documents that are behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of these questions. First, in general, I would like to say about our research responsibilities - yes, we appreciate this in our Ministry, when we receive advice from a psychiatrist, from an equal and moderate degree, on the basis of the proposals and the results of them. This is done evenly according to decisions. I mean, about the statistics as well as the numbers. A senator comes in, that a quarter has no active infection, if so. A senator would likely point out that these tests are not safer than that. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, I get it. A senator, and I have to call for them numbers. I don't have them available here, I can't confirm that there's that exactly quarter that's coming out, I assume they exist. For stress relief, for example, the change in regional and isolation regulations, the decisions were just taken in terms of a moderate degree and to make a special relief of the specimens of children and adolescents, that was done. Regarding certain groups and spiritual impacts, for children and adolescents, it is kept particularly by the surgeon, and then there are groups in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health that have been watching the situation all the time. It is very important that we continue to use these data to take reasonable measures based on the results of that monitoring. Of course, we've been going through all this time, too, responding with budgeted bills, where we've always tried to deal with the situation as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u102	V.E.G. President. I just want to thank you for this discussion and the many questions, speculations and viewpoints that have been presented. I feel that in this two - year - old war we have been fighting - especially in the war that has lasted since July if we think about this in the waves that have passed and mutations. If we look at other nations and the data they're working on these days for a shorter average and lower rate of incarnation and the impact of the disease prevention measures we've used so far in this modified picture in the fight with the ultrasound variant, which is milder in regard to illness, we're still working on it by standard techniques. I think it's been very impressive today. The situation is this: Our primary obligation to protect our life and health has not left us, our primary obligation to ensure that our health system, which has worked under intense stress for a long time, has not been ours for the past two years. In view of the widespread spread of infectious diseases, the National Hospital has been reassigned to emergency levels and to coordinate measures and services of all health care professionals, we are in a public emergency. Meanwhile, all of us, the community, must run along and cooperate with our health systems and make sure that those who get sick and need to be hospitalised and cared for will receive our services and that we have other services to the most impaired. This is true of numerous other activities, and it has been a real challenge. It even came. to the number of meetings we have held here, ministers'meetings with a number of members of our community and sciences, that these traditional provisions and controlling and allowing society to go as far as possible, to find this balance - that it would be changing, and that's what we're looking at right now. When I talk about other countries and compared with other nations, we're not in the same place in the wave, and we need to be appreciated, too. In Britain, we see that virtually all the limits and traditional instruments have been removed. We see in Denmark and Norway, who have had limitations similar to ours, that they are taking further steps to break off. So, yes, I see it, more dignified president, here now that if everything develops in this way, it will be in place to ease, but it must be done wisely, in steps, and the status of the health system must be taken into account. We have to start by getting the hospital down from the emergency grade of public defense and then we can start looking to a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u103	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the grant to the manager of restaurants that have been restricted during opening hours for the last two years. I think it is absolutely clear that the situation in this trade has been both difficult and burdensome. These are the people and places that have had to be severely restricted, either had to close earlier or had to be completely closed along with the number limits being there as well as elsewhere. But that said, because we are discussing this case here today, we have responded and we have taken certain steps here on Monday and we are continuing and this is our introduction to the task of responding to the situation facing these companies. I still don't think that any man, professional, or otherwise, requires that the loss in the past two years be completely reimbursed. This particular matter is very important. It shows that I know we're responding and we're going to meet these companies and this industry with force. But that is also what I want to say, and I've heard it in the discussions that were here earlier today, and I think my partners on a financial and business committee and the rest of the people here have agreed that this committee will take care of themselves and that it will do a good thing. There's at least that. two things I would like to be examined and carefully considered. I'm going to go over them later. But I would like to know before I do it that I have felt, in general, in discussions with these companies and this industry, that it is somehow classified lower or lower-sized than other professions. I don't know if it's because of the nature of these companies or their services. I'd like to say that behind these companies like others are families and people who have worked a lot, all in their business, in their business, to keep it going. That is why I would like to suggest that certain aspects of this matter be considered. First, of these two points, let me mention that on Monday we discussed the continuation of public pay standards, one of the first steps to respond to the situation we are facing. However, conditions for resource management in this particular bill are stated in Article 4. that the employer must meet all the conditions that are five, but in the 4th, it is said that the employer is not underreached by public fees, taxes, or tax fines. I don't usually comment on that, but I think it's right to get an interpretation of this point, whether it's the parties or the companies that take advantage of this deferral and are, you might say, push ahead of their paydays, be counted under official fees or not. I think it's very important that we take this up on the Economic and Business Committee and take a good look at this and get a very clear answer in this regard because I think a lot of companies will take advantage of the continuation of public pay markets and they'll agree on that condition in the bill. I don't think that's the idea, and that's not the plan, so to speak. The other thing is a little bit about what I mentioned here about some of these companies being small pubs or waves or whatever they're now called, not big restaurants. I'm going to say that a lot of these people have made contact with me, and these are, that, I think, the companies or the people who have cut all their fat, have entered the bone. These are the families that are on their own, and the reason is simple. These are the places that have had to be severely restricted, have had to shorten the opening time, and have simply not had the ability to have workers at work. And then we come to 5. ... that'sthe money. I'll just have to say, a respectable president, that I'm concerned about that team, and that's another matter I'll wish the committee looked well, i.e. paying a specific amount for each position of the operator. I've wondered in the past if it's not right to aim at something else, I'm going to let me say. I've mentioned a fixed cost of operating, such as rent, heat, electricity, etc. There's another way I know of how to look in this relationship. Whether it's the right way, however, I can't answer right now. But I think it's totally worth taking it into consideration and possibly some other way out there. I also think that we may be able to look to the actions our neighboring nations have taken because this is not an isolated case. It's not just us, here in our good Iceland, who are responding in this way to these companies. To this, a respectable president, I think I've considered the points I wanted to make in my speech. I stress again that it's very important for the Economic and Business Committee to take it, to put it together, and to put it to good use, because it's very urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u104	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill that helps deal with a pandemic. I am happy to share in this discussion, since I have the opportunity to do so here at the great General Assembly. That's exactly what things are all about. We're here to have this discussion. So I'm going to take advantage of the discussion to promote some of the views I have and have come to me, as those who are dealing with the consequences of the epidemic of their business and work have presented themselves. I believe it's important that we at the Council have these views in mind, to what it is. The Economic and Business Committee will keep them in mind when it comes to the matter and to the highest degree. The government has them in mind when it decides that further primary points I expect are on the way and in preparation. This bill is in the foundation of funding to the operators of restaurants that have suffered restrictions during opening hours. The economic climate of this epidemic may have been improved by those who have taken the limitations of the public. I've heard here today that there's been a debate about whether it's supposed to be compensation or strength. Anyway. First, I'd like to say the highest words. Secretary of state, who gave this matter on behalf of financial and economic ministers, that it is important to expand the range of this bill for class IV restaurants, not just class III, but class IV levels. It is also important to consider further options for SMEs in many countries. Before I take a closer look at why these things are important, I'd like to come up with something why we have these supportive measures and who they are. It is now that if we want to grow to the best of our means, we have to have a very strong job life here, and the people of this country have to have a job. In this way, the value is available. We are in a large competitive world in the tourism and service sectors of getting people to visit us, thus creating valuables from services rendered. By now two years of a pandemic, with the very strict control limits, it has certainly had a tremendous impact on corporate business. This has led to the staff of these enterprises, e.g. did not get any overtime or additional work that they may have trusted on because of spending on a business in their home. I'd like to point out that employees in the service sector are not exactly very high-priority employees and that they may not have a lot of savings, so every dollar that comes into the home is more important and much more important than us, who work for the public on the fines and who have obtained them completely without trouble. Everything affecting the services industry, especially in tourism, has a tremendous impact on tens of thousands of people working in these household - run companies. Many of these people are forming homes and such. So it is of great importance to us as a community to ensure that these enterprises are able to function as large as possible without interference in order to remain at the slightest disturbances in the homes of the people. This is extremely important. The companies with a market position and knowledge must also be there when the tourists are allowed to come here. When they show interest in coming here, we need some type of service to render them. There must be something they know, some who know the market, to accept them, and to render acceptable service to those whom they respond. That's extremely important. Of course, most people who have been on part - time reformers, even for some time on unemployment rates, are under a low pay period of two years, most of which may not be able to say again now, to receive yet another report. We learned this from a financial breakdown. ASI also revealed at an open meeting of economic and business committees during the days that signs were back up that the victims of such a shock, income loss, job loss, and so forth, on unemployment records would require tremendous support, effective support, to survive unemployment and into the job. Although people have every desire to go back to their job, they just don't have the energy to do that. It is part of the impact of this epidemic, and we must not encourage it. Therefore, it is extremely important that we help small and medium - size services around the country of tourism, whether restaurants, boarding homes, or entertainment companies, to keep these employees working until the spring when we expect to be here in the tourism business and the tourists coming back to us. Then we must have strong and good staff. We've helped these companies live to today and if we help them with some kind of resistance and recruitment grants in the final meters so that they don't have to resign their employees or, like, theirs. paritaprevir In the preceding speech, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson made it available for every rank, or whatever way we go, we're investing so that we don't have to resign people, so we have them. The company then has a contract with the staff to train it, prepare quick-help courses, quality courses and so forth, go to market, and prepare the travel services to receive visitors. It is extremely important to keep people from entering social systems, such as unemployment benefits or other things that are so difficult to get out of. It's really important, so I'm supporting this bill. I'm on top of my word. Ministers that this needs to be extended to class IVs, restaurants and inns, because it's the reality outside the capital. Here in the capital city, we may be more looking at the big restaurant that is being fired as such. These are much more of a home in the country, which has a restaurant. The situation is so different and different. That's what needs to be looked forward to. Also, we have small and medium - sized entertainment companies that need our attention. I expect a bill to be built by the government and to bring it to the council. Wait a minute. A financial and business committee has these views all ahead of them at work. I think it's very important. We want to believe that we are in the final meters of this epidemic. The income begins to come into spring and completely in the middle of summer. There will be more to do. We need to keep working at this, and we need to help them be there. It's a joint project, and no one's gonna say that this support is just for corporate owners, like that. I'd rather thank the owners of my business for still being there, for standing up and sharing in this project with us. The government's support has made a big difference, I believe, and has led to the fact that society as a whole has had no greater impact than it has seen. Finally, I'd like to introduce to you that the greatest support is that we speak of the treatment procedures and how we can relieve them and put the businesses into the most normal business and society in the normal world. You may be able to make recommendations about your personal resources and that my business will provide a measure of security, which I believe they will. They know how to protect themselves and how to secure the safety of the staff and the guests. If an enterprise is not concerned with the safety of its guests and staff, the company's management will not go on for long. So we are afraid to let go of responsibility to them and to conduct disease prevention measures that will affect the business of our companies and, by the way, affect the everyday lives of people who are more often than not of a low salary. We've heard from the BSBA and ASI that they're a lot of immigrants, young people, and single parents who are going to get into the worst of all of this. These are tens of thousands of people, and we need and will face these challenges that these disorders have had, very long after the epidemic has ended. So I wanted to come here to point out this whole context and to say how important it is that we don't attach ourselves to small technical issues or some centenarians. We need to support small and medium-sized services in these final meters so that they will be there for us as a community in us when normal life begins again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u105	A respectable president. I come up here to describe my delight in the fact that this bill is being passed. It was on the top. Minister of State to hear this week that any proposal could be expected to support the restaurant sector, which suffers greatly from a decrease in opening time. However, there are not only reductions in opening times and closings that have a powerful effect but also terrors at places that are still open because of the fear of contracting. Hence, action is urgent and necessary. I come from an area that has been severely damaged by the Korean epidemic, an area that has had to face a lot of unemployment, and that is not the end of it, though it has greatly diminished. For example. This can be attributed to 40% of the economy at the air station and the secondary work related to it. It follows that both companies and families are badly affected by the contraction of that field. So any action that can promote and support the business is a source of joy. On the other hand, I find that much of what is being done right now is done in great haste and without any interference. Money expected everything to be just fine. The tigers would just stream to the country and would not have to be expected for employment or support measures of any kind. However, because of the fact that the virus is a visible opponent, another has been identified. For some reason, I had assumed that some of the scenarios would be drawn up where there would be various results or results to be expected. What if? What if a number of tourists fail to meet their expectations? One hundred thousand tourists who don't come are losing their income by 26 billion. We see a statistical work at the Land Hospital and the Center for Disease Control, predicting optimistic and pessimistic outcomes. No such staging analysis appears to be on the board of the government, at least does not show such analysis in new legal requirements. Such work would have made it easier for us to work. Instead, we constantly agree on something in a mess that allows for failure to be made and that some fall between ships and docks. You can even say that. Note that at the bill, a modification proposal was immediately made that class IV would be included in the same way. At that time, Part IV of the bill we were working with at the beginning of the week was not expected to delay on paydays. Clearly, this is being done at great speed. It will be necessary for the Economic and Business Committee to review the conditions set up in the bill and give teachers the opportunity to express their own opinion of it. I'd also like to use this opportunity to describe my concern for the world list of people who seem to have no house to live with. Many of the things that are available to people who are lonely in the market, and they need to harrow from day to day with unsecured income. When the entire concert, theater shows, and other events are closed, this group stands outside the park, without income and sees no solution to their affairs. It is vital, therefore, that his position be examined and met in some way. A respectable president. This bill is now being passed on to the Economic and Business Committee at the end of the 1st. and the need for it to receive the necessary and material assessment and to benefit from the groups most needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u106	Madam President. The discussion that has taken place here today, I think that I've been able to monitor it to most extent, on this bill of funding to the host of restaurants that have been restricted during the opening season, has been very helpful. I'm not gonna use it as a pleasure, but it's been very perturbing. It has been observed, both from members of the council and members of the government's stand, from the best tips, and I believe that a financial and business committee will review them. I think this is a reminder when we were dealing with support measures in the first few months of this miserable epidemic and how we managed here at a common assembly, a government, and a government stand, to work together for the resolutions. Of course, we did not agree on any individual exports, etc., but everyone had the right focus in that they wanted to take action as soon as possible. It has to be as it is that when we review what has been done, we can be reasonably happy when it comes to economic support, whether in a home or in a business. That's at least the assessment of OECD experts who gave the Icelandic government, including, of course, members of the Parliament who were working on these support measures, the rate of boldly responding to the economic consequences of the crown virus, while at the same time being used in action. When we discuss this kind of bill, about the support of a state fund to individual sectors, in this case of restaurants, it is worth keeping in mind that no community, and no matter how powerful the economy is on the ground, it will be able to resist the economic activities of the citizens, if it is prevented from being created. But we've made the decision, fighting what was initially a dangerous virus, reducing the production of valuable things and the paralysis of business life. We've thought it was justified, at least To date, although there is strong evidence that justification is not in force today, that in a defense struggle, the key is to protect the people's life and health and then to take good care to cope with its economic consequences. Of course, this struggle is not without cost, but unfortunately, part of the cost is hidden and will be maligned and never for money. It has occurred, but most likely it will also occur in the years to come. We find it hard to understand the impact of the virus epidemic and of any existing disease prevention or restrictions, for example. to the people's emotional health. I believe that in this council hall, this matter will have to be discussed specifically, as some members of the council have called attention to it. And there is also some cost that we will see for limitations in public health. As a community, we have decided to add heavier burdens - I'm talking about economic burdens, I'm talking, not health, but economic burdens - on certain groups of society. During the past few weeks, it is mainly the owners and staff of waves and restaurants that have had to accept simply shut down and/or put down so much limits that human efforts cannot be expected to continue. In the past, if we go back further, there were, of course, more people who had to shoulder these burdens for us, from barbershops and hairdressers to gymnasiums, etc. and, of course, the damage caused by public contracts in demand for their services is the unrecognizable damage that some have suffered. No artists have taken part in a lack of employment freedom. So it is only natural and fair that we together, through our common funds, our state funds, meet these people, that in one way or another we try to improve at least the best of our ability. The financial losses we have made them suffer by limitation of their activities. But such support measures, as we are discussing here, are not just to distribute our burdens a little more to ourselves, that we are involved in this work, and that we do not allow a small group, employees, and owners of certain companies to carry the burdens, but that we come to their aid. It is as important to bear in mind when discussing this bill as well as when discussing other support measures that we need to take over the coming days and possibly weeks, I hope we won't have months, that we have such measures to protect society's production capacity. We're making sure of the entrance. We are ensuring the intelligence, the knowledge, and the achievement of an Icelandic community. We know that a powerful commercial system is, of course, a prerequisite for our success in building a powerful society and a high standard of living, and it is essential for us to run a welfare system that we can be proud of. I wanted to say this, Madam President, in this discussion. I can do a special team on this bill. I agree with the criticism that appeared earlier today that the steps here are fully fixed, the blows caused by a certain sense of justice. The models, of course, are present in the measures we have already agreed on and have yielded large success but I can inform you that there was a discussion in the Economic and Business Committee whether man should, instead of having such a step on income loss, in this case 20% and 60%, using a simple linear approach, i.e. that the amount of money a man has right would be proportional to his income, but it would not be so violent. To my delight, even that was so. Councilmen who pointed out this, e.g. Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and I agree to the criticism because it is just a form of criticism that I have set up, including on the patient's step-by-step income tax system. If this argument, and I agree with it, then there is a right - i.e. the criticism that the step difference is abnormal here, and it's better to have a linear fall like my partner. A former senator, a Smári Mccarthy, pointed out, and I joined in, but we couldn't change that -- the same procedure applies when it comes to the individual income tax system. But I'm not going to get into it. Madam President. I hope this bill is achieved rapidly and effectively in the Economic and Business Committee, and I heard it on those committees, both from the smaller and more parts, which have taken up here that there will be a great deal of solidarity on the Committee, even though there can be some differences in individual exports, etc. They know, as has happened in the past few months in this struggle, that there have been good luck in getting along, and even in not getting along fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u107	Madam President. I'm not going to give a long talk. I'd like to agree with what's been happening here from time to time, that it seems the government is forgetting an important group of people. These include artists, stage artists, the entire world list sector that has suffered an overwhelming loss of income in the past two years and not just stagers but also all the secondary sectors that work with the world list. That's when I'm talking about the whole field of technology. I had a report in December that at the first tribulation, on the first restrictions that occurred in December, one of the people who rent out equipment and take care of the recordings and the access of the events became of 20 million books on one weekend. It's a huge payload, and I was shocked to see something at the government meeting at the end of the day, and this announced that, in fact, we were still at that place, just thinking of adding to the labour fund. Of course, that is a good price because there are also individuals in the economy who can search there. But the budget that runs, e.g. The theaters that house performances, unfortunate social skills, the Lottah, Chado, the theatres around the country - even the Reykjavík Games club is company, and because they're bad company, they don't get into the stronger arrangements we've created. The decision was to give special support to the Reykjavík Games club as such, while other groups have landed completely between the two years. I've heard from them and in the restaurant business that what might be involved, apart from what's being done here, should be building something similar and is now being done for the restaurant, is rebuilding the part-time process. Why? Yes, because in the last two years, it was the most effective option. It was the most advanced resources, the most practical of which were not those that were overly complex and difficult to deal with. It was really working on making it work, and of course it had to be cleaned up. Artists had many problems with the Labour Organization each. But I've heard that in the food business, this would prevent, for example, from happening. a lot of lay-offs at the end of the next month. I'd like to represent this route in general for both of these groups, both the independent groups, the field list people, and for the restaurant sector, that we'll re-enact the part-change process. But with regard to the stage audience and the secondary articles, we need to give them the opportunity, give them strength so that they will not disappear when our normal life comes back, so to speak. I don't think we want to live up to this two-year struggle with a poor society in which art and culture have been completely involved. I expect we can at this job try to add to the set of values, possibly to include more groups, or to bring some kind of modification proposals so that we are not just turning them into some application procedure into the fund, as the Ministry of Education spoke of. On the other hand, of course, I support the purpose of the bill that we are dealing with today, but as noted earlier, we have this too narrow and complicated and are excluded from other groups that are about to suffer a major fall. Finally, I'd like to say that I called for serious acts of mental health and have been tireless during the two years to point out that real action, like the people we're watching here, has not really happened yet. These are some mental - health teams, and I wondered, " Where are the large meetings?'" Where the three eyes come to discuss the nation's spiritual well - being? ' We have already begun to have research on the spiritual health of young people who suffer severe spiritual deterioration, especially in low wages, which have suffered very, etc. Finally, in this discussion, about the grant to the manager of a restaurant that has been restricted to opening hours, I just remind you of this: we can't and can't leave this part behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u108	Madam President. I just wanted to thank the end for the discussion that has been here today, which has been beneficial. I'd like to mention in particular the extra evasion introduced by the minister of Culture and Business last week, which reminds me, as well as a further 380 million. K. into a variety of funds for the cultural sector. But it's certainly true when it comes to indirect effects, i.e. The funds that keep the events, equipment companies, etc., that they don't exactly agree with this. However, they should, in an indirect way, benefit from it, i.e. When there are other events to be held, which we may not always be able to do because of limitations. However, we have also reported the continuation of final jobs and the plans to continue with the level of resistance, not to those we're discussing, but to the general population. These companies should fall under them if they meet the conditions, which I expect many of them to do. Then I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir showed up, and others have come in today, the mental health of the nation, and the discussion of the role that is also protecting the health and lives of the people of the land. That is often a significant incomprehensible factor. It is harder to attach a finger to it in a straight way. It is harder to count them and measure them than Covid infection, illness, etc. We also know that it will come out later. I just wanted to have mentioned it here, even though it doesn't have a direct bearing on this bill. But it's all about Covid, no matter what you're talking about. I would be delighted that there would be more room for discussion on this aspect of the matter because it is all too important to us and already has an impact and needs to be able to discuss various viewpoints. On the other hand, I want to thank you for the discussion here today and wish the Committee a success by conniving treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u109	A respectable president. I'd like to thank a substitute. Economic and financial ministers for this review. V.E.G. Minister said they'd continue with their resistance grants. I want to ask, because these are new information for me, when it was decided, how long they'll stay in force and to which companies they're going to take. Is this something that has been decided recently at a government meeting? And then when does a Senate case enter this council? I'd like to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u110	Madam President. There's not a bill for that. I talked earlier about the plan. This is one of the points discussed in relation to the bill on Friday was and now is one of the more economic groups of the Council of Management Board. What that bill would look like and what time period or what conditions would not be available today. That work is taking place, and it can be assumed to become clearer in the next few days. The decision has not been made, but it is one of the factors that are already being considered to support the current action, i.e. the pre-emptive and economic responses due to these measures. Both Friday's bill, which has become a law, and what we discuss here, are specific and turn to specific sectors. We said that on Friday, and that work has been going on this week, talking to the sector and inspection and analysis of the position that would then be more general resources, not tied to the food sector to form, as we've been doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u111	Madam President. I appreciate those answers. As I mentioned in a talk today, it is very important to follow the gold balanced between the general and the specific. We do not want resources to be too public and that money is being badly absorbed into areas that do not need it. However, we do not want to tailor our actions so that companies who really need support and are viable, or if they are under some ordinary circumstances, somehow fall between ships and docks in government support procedures. I'm glad that there are ideas of extending the level of resistance in some form. Of course, these are strange times we live in, but I call for as much sense as possible to provide drivers out there, and then rather clear plans on what is exactly to be done. I don't think it's enough. The secretary of finance is not among us today, as these important and important measures, which are of great importance to so many members of the community, are being discussed here in the legislature and in the preparation of the Ministry. But I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u112	Madam President. I think we really agree to want to complete this project, so we do what we have to do, just so we don't look after companies and jobs, behind employees. I hope this is the final meters after all that has happened. That is really what this work is going on, making sure that we are supporting those who truly need support, that is the work that is going on right now. I try to understand that the people in this discussion are missing the secretary of finance very much, but even though the situation is big and complex, I allow me to say that the person here is also completely able to introduce and solve them, measure them, and answer them for what is, yes, the idea of a surrogacy. Finally, I thank you again for this discussion, and we will present them as soon as they are born. We are about to be able to answer these questions and to increase the awareness of companies in general so that they can adapt to it, especially those enterprises which truly need support to keep these final meters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u113	Madam President. I hereby recommend a psychiatric reluctance proposal, but the proposal stands for a council party. Here's the word for it: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to start work to ensure improved facilities for the mental health care of the National Hospital and the Hospital at Akureyri. They will appoint a professional and stakeholder team, including the users and caregivers who are concerned with initial research, the need for diagnosis, and the house space plan for the project are consistent with different options and offer suggestions for location and size. New facilities will be assured to meet today's requirements for humanitarian, progressive, and varied mental - health activities, including those for the benefit of human or mental - health professionals. non-medical psychiatry. The staff will submit their report and suggestions for ministers no later than July 1, 2022. This decree similar to what was proposed during the last legislation), but it has been extended according to indications and has also involved the activities of the Hospital Hospital in Akureyri. The proposal suggests that the construction of facilities for the mental - health services of the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri will be organized, but the facilities on both sides are completely inadequate. It is stated that in conjunction with the construction of a new Hospital on Ring Road Hospital, the hospital's mental field will be met with adequate housing, taking into consideration the needs of people who face mental challenges as well as that of the Department of the Hospital in Akureyri, the only specialized mental ward outside the capital area, will also be equipped with adequate and modern facilities. The activities of a mental hospital are mainly carried out in the old building on Ring Road, as well as on the Klamp, the fire - old building on the Daldar River River River. The house - to - house service at the Ring Road is built in the 1970's after the construction regulations of the time, but the operation at Klepps Hospital began in 1907. The National Institute of Mental Help has repeatedly pointed out that because of their illness, the building at the Ring Road is not a cause for concern to the community, so the facility is not expected to be located for those in the closed wards and under protective care. Klepp's house is also gone, and the ideologies behind the situation are old - fashioned, and the modern demand for humanitarian treatment of patients facing emotional challenges. A 2013 surgeon's assessment of the health of a 2013 National Hospital indicates that many housing conditions are lacking, and this does not meet today's standards. Housekeeping is gone, the lack of interview rooms is undesirable for this vulnerable group of patients, the number of people who live in rural areas. They consider employees to be humiliating for themselves and their patients to work and stay in a demeaning environment. According to the surgeon's assessment, the necessary improvements in mental - health facilities and housing must be made as soon as possible. I reiterate that there is a geographer's assessment of the mental field since 2013 or eight, nine years ago. Since then, little change has been made in these areas, leaving the facilities for homemaking at a land hospital and in such a state. The European Council's Committee on Prevention of torture has set specific criteria for what to consider when treating a closed mental ward. It emphasizes that a safe, warm environment is one of the necessary factors to meet basic needs in caring for patients. The environment in general has a positive effect on the patient's well - being and behaviour. This is not only important for patients but also for staff. Similarly, it is important for individuals who live in the closed wards of mental health to have some way of enjoying outdoors, at least for one hour a day, if their condition allows. It must be remembered that when individuals have been deprived of their freedom through the public and that they themselves do not have the means or authority to make decisions about these aspects of their environment and basic needs, it is important to ensure that these factors are in place, ensuring that those who are free will get part of the day out of the exposed air. The opposite can have a significant negative impact on one's health. With regard to the facility of the Hospital in Akureyri, it is appropriate to refer to the assessment of the land physician's office from December 2012, ten years ago, including the case. says that the state of the mental ward is incorruption and inaccessible in the long run. The hospital's annual report by 2020 said that the mental ward remains in the 1986 use facility and that despite certain improvements made in the home in the later years, facilities for the management department do not meet today's demands. Clearly, action is needed. Madam President. We're submarines to our neighbors in the North. In many parts of the North, important steps have been taken in recent years toward a more humanitarian and healthful environment for patients with psychiatric challenges. In this context, Vejle's mental hospital, Denmark, opened up in 2017 in a new building, with all indoor design taking into account the established environmental and mental - health effects of the environment. It is also worth examining the structure currently occurring at the Bispebjerg Hospital in Copenhagen and the Department of Justice at Sct. Hans's in the Horseshell. Long ago it is time to make the same pace in Iceland and the activities of the mental hospital and the Hospital's mental centre of Akureyri found facilities that are bright, wide to the wall and high to the air and in an environment that allows for home and exercise. All of us, of course, know how important outdoors, oxygen, and exercise are for our spiritual health, especially for this group of patients, who have a sense of freedom. It is therefore suggested that the health - care minister appoint a professional and stakeholder team, including users and caregivers of those who perform basic research purposes, as well as a building plan for the project, and produce a report in the mid- 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u114	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vól Helgadóttir and his associates for this proposal that I support with my whole mind. For a few years, the European Council agreed to conclude that she would put an end to under compulsion in the treatment of a mental - health professional in Europe. Based on a resolution made for the Parliament on the status of these cases in Europe and the necessary improvements. The report included: and that there is a growing improvement in mental health care and the change in legislation intended to reduce such forcedness has not been an expected effect in Europe. The reason is based on attitudes and culture that depend on the control and treatment of individuals who are considered potentially dangerous to themselves or others. The evidence for the risk of violence on the part of these individuals appears to be a dominant rationalization for the use of mental health, and this, despite the fact that studies have revealed no special connection between emotional and violent abuses or the use of power to prevent self - injury or harm from humans. On the contrary, social studies have shown that application of pedestrians in the treatment of mental disorders has serious negative consequences for such persons. Various treatments for the individual's will, such as the forced medication, are mentioned as particularly damaging to the individual's spiritual well - being. Then there are uncalled moral questions related to the possible and permanent physical consequences of such therapies. Then, under compulsion, people who are not even seeking help because they fear being under such pressure will be affected. This cycle needs to be interrupted. As a result, the Parliament concluded that a mental health system in Europe needs to be rethinked, including the need to rethink. Based on the international commitments of Member States, such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, and in accordance with the ethics of medicine and respect for human rights and people's self - determination rights. The report reviews a number of ways in which mental - health care can be avoided altogether. As a result, Member States are challenged to aim for noncompression and forced health systems. Among the steps proposed for the State to take in this direction is to develop a vision of a radical decrease in the number of forced cases in the cooperation of all concerned, especially those with psychiatric disorders and those with service employers. It is suggested that the world will develop effective and accessible support services for individuals in spiritual difficulties, including safe and supportive resources for people to discuss thoughts of self - injury and suicide. The study of non-compulsive measures must be developed and financed, putting capitals in the prevention and early diagnosis of mental disorders and early measures without pressure, especially for children and young people, without prejudice. People with psychiatric disorders and narravía must be opposed to sedophiles and people with dementia, sharing with anyone who has access to such matters, including the services, the media, law enforcement officers, and the general public, in addition to the people who have experienced mental illness. A program of learning should be reviewed with the intention of ensuring that it harmonizes with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Discrimination and excommunication of people with psychiatric disorders must be opposed by ensuring access to appropriate social services, housing, and employment. Finally, people with mental - health disorders are encouraged to provide social and financial support to meet the pressures and challenges of delinquency for people with psychiatric disorders. All of these are the steps to be taken to stop forcing people to accept or lock them away because of mental illness. But I encourage the government to look to the future in the construction of mental institutions and to ensure that new and improved measures are in line with the international commitment we have applied, especially the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and the modern attitudes of mental health and psychiatric people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u115	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech that was pretty good. I just wanted to come into this with forced medication. It is really amazing that those who face mental challenges in Iceland have no chance of getting anywhere under medical care in the wards, i.e. in drug-free wards, 2022. True, medication can help in some cases, and I'm not going to say it isn't. However, many have reported that the medicinal products have actually slowed down the healing process, that they have worked against their aims because of the self-preservation efforts to get through the disease, through the symptoms that take place, temporarily and without getting exogenous medication, are paralyzed during the time of high medication. This service is not available in Iceland under the supervision of health care professionals, as it is known elsewhere in the Northern countries and in many parts of the world, in many parts of Europe. There you can request the services of a healthcare professional because you want to be sure that you are being treated with such care, without the possibility of being forced to take any medicines you do not wish to take. We have heard a number of accounts of the very difficult experiences of people who have been directly treated disrespectfully in such situations. I think we have to focus on setting up at least one of those units in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u116	A respectable president. I thank the senator for pointing this out. I especially noticed this in the suggestion, and it made me very happy because it's a very big step, and it's important in offering help on your own terms. I think it's a key factor in all this development to think these things through the basis of the individual who suffer from psychiatric disorders, and it's a direct contradiction to resort to some kind of pressure or pressure. Although it may seem to me, research also shows that such forced and forced use of force has a negative effect on people's recovery rather than on good. It may be surprising that the process of mental health has not been faster because it has been a long time since we realized that using some form of pressure or pressure is not the best way to reach it. It's only human nature. These are, I think, measures used by lack of idealessness and inadequacy, and even lack of ideas about what other methods can be used. Similar developments have been observed in the development of general human relationships, such as those described above. Child rearing, in the past, found it normal to put pressure on ourselves because there was nothing else in our mind. But now we have come to realize that it is not likely to support people in mastering their abilities and becoming the best they can become.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u117	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. It contained this key, that we are in this structure on the basis of the user and not the system. Therefore, in this council concluded so strongly that in the group we hope to be met by a health - care minister - although there is something that we need to do - be experts, but it is equally important that those who use the ministry and those who represent them. It is the people who know how we can serve the interests of those who need to spend more or less time in closed divisions. The whole of mental health is a major problem in Iceland. The conditions of those working in the sector are not good, and therefore there will also be little increase, both among mental - health professionals and mental - care professionals, which, in turn, leads to a continuation of space, waiting lists, and so on. I fear that the decision to separate the moods, to this vast and expensive structure at a Land Hospital on Ring Road, to the underlying prejudice in the system. It seems that mental health matters are an elbow child and always come to the rest. There is no correlation between the level of mental health and the share of such individuals in the patient group. I think we need to start looking at this situation quite differently, this part of health for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the conversation. Interestingly, it still seems quite remarkable to talk about the need to be forced to deal with mental illness at all times, that such situations cannot be prevented altogether. When people speak that way, I feel that they lose sight of the reason why we are under compulsion is not that it is a good solution, not a solution to any problem or firm recovery or success at all, but because we don't know what to do because we don't know what to do because we don't know what to do because we don't have another solution. But now it is in the year 2022, fortunately, we have a lot of equipment. We have a lot of research, we have the solutions. We know how to do things differently. Our failure to do so may be a lack of change of mind. It is often difficult to reach a change of mind into the slow - working machine of society in many respects. In this context, e.g. mention a lack of the will of the government to finance your own plans to provide people with a psychological service, which would be expected to prevent future problems. Most of the solutions offered as an option against pressure are about to grab people much earlier, long before the time comes when despair has become so intense and the failure to resort to such measures. We can find other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u119	Madam President. Housework is out of place, mold in walls, snow into patients and staff, people have to share rooms with strangers, up to six of them that share showeres and toilets. This is how two psychiatrists, Halldóra Jónsdóttir and Lára Björgvinsdóttir, describe the state of mental health in an article published in the News magazine last year. Let's just give them the word, by permission of the President: ▪ I'm glad there's no room for all the activities in mental - health service. There is no plan for the renewal of the facilities for the National Hospital Mental Services. It has not been properly maintained throughout the years, and it has many problems, such as snow on patients and staff in winter weathers and molds, some of which have been identified in some houses, something that is late considered healthful. The patient's service has suffered from this condition. The facilities do not measure up to modern standards. The departments are tight and have been given a lot of space other than the patient's room. And Halldóra and Lára continue: ▪ Every year, an average of 1,200 people enter the mental - health wards of Land Hospital, some more than once. Most of them have to share a room with strangers. Understandably, many find it difficult to do so and may not even rely on them. A shower and toilet need to be shared with more people (often 4-6) who are associated with infections, but hospital infections are a serious problem in the whole hospital, even in mental wards. There is only one patient's room with him in the psychiatric house on Ring Road. In just one department in the house, everyone in the house gets an inside one, where they share two toilets and a shower. There are certainly more farms where all patients in the hospital share bathrooms. Standard recreation is scarce, preferably television, perhaps handwork, or handplay. Basiss are still less difficult, and in some cases it is not possible to let people out for days where areas are not safe for outdoors. The psychiatric community has been subject to this from the European Council torture committee, which rightly considers this to be a violation of human rights. We both received from experience and studies to narrow psychiatric units where bioavailability is not directly available in the garden/out zone increases the likelihood of tension, agitation and violent episodes, and in the process of ensuing patients. - Forces, like whatnot. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir spoke of here, which is the result of the dreary conditions of patients and staff. And so I keep going: Then you can point out that the mental ward at the Ring Road is surrounded by parking lots and heavy streets. In effect, a facility on the Ring Road stands at the hospital's parking lot. Madam President. After reading this, after these descriptions of the two psychiatrists, does anyone need to question the need for improvement in the affairs of mental - health care in Iceland? Does anyone doubt that? It can't be. Mental - health services have simply been replaced by the last governments. Mental - health professionals have decreased in the area of the sickest of patients, waiting time for service has increased and increased over the last few years, and this is just the case. According to the information I obtained from the National Institutes of Children and Youth Hospital at the budget of December, 133 children on a waiting list at the BUGL, 133 children, and many of them have been waiting months for the diagnosis, service, and assistance. The average waiting time for the crash team of the Land Hospital is 45 weeks based on information received by the Department of Health last year by the General Assembly. A mean duration of 45 weeks for people suffering from an eating disorder. How can that be considered an acceptable position in a community that we would like to call a welfare community? In the United States, for years we have called for decisive action on mental health. We also call for a clear vision for the future, not just extraordinary initiatives at times. It's part of the Senate proposal we're dealing with today. It is about assigning a health - care minister to start work to secure a better facility, both for the mental - health professionals and the Hospital's mental ward of Akureyri, to appoint a staff team of professionals and stakeholders, including users and caregivers who care for basic concerns, needs for analysis and house space plan for the job, to agree with different advantages and to make suggestions for the location and size. The Parliament was submitted to the last council for about a year ago. A year, if I recall correctly, and it's about building a decent home for this urgent basic service. The goal is to create a wholesome and good environment for people who have mental problems, an environment that is in harmony with modern human standards of service. The interpretation proposal has been given very positive subsections, e.g. From Iceland's Medical Association. Its review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ LIVE supports this suggestion, pointing to the review of Land Hospital's 11th March. that now the facility available to mental hospitals is a child of its own. It is important that this work be done well, so it is obvious that the time frame suggested by the staff is unrealistic. Iceland's Medical Association called for a long time, and they failed. The governor also sent in a review, saying, by permission of the president: Modern - day edgy services are filled with a wide, bright, beautiful environment that creates the well - being of users, caregivers, and staff. Houses must be secure and thus properly equipped to protect you from disease control (including see bathrooms and ventilation). All medical facilities need to be left alone with a bathroom and a shower. All departments need ground floors with direct access to parks or outdoors. To pursue an active and healthy life - style, a good position must be taken to receive family members. Then the National Association welcomed our proposal and gave us some more careful and careful comments on the subject. It contains, for example, It is noted that since its use in 1979, mental centres of the Land Hospital are located in a building that users, caregivers, and staff have criticized. The review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Users were not included at any stage of the project. The structure of an inside facility is virtually absent, and its design is insurmountable, cold, and unpleasant. How disappointing it was that mental - health departments were not included in the construction of new Hospitals! - Under it, I can take it. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. For some reason, this important matter was not approved at our last council. I sincerely hope that this will be the best time for a body of Congress to join us. The approval of this body of Congress would be one of the important steps of the many big steps that must immediately be taken toward a decent mental - health service in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u120	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Parliamentary candidates for the contributions of this synonym, which I think is a very important and urgent project, i.e. improving the situation of those who have mental illness and help to improve mental health. I also spoke up when this case was scheduled at the last assembly, I think, and pointed to what I would personally want to be examined, i.e. If a group of people were to be set up to review these matters, this is a mental event involving the Hospital. I think it's a very good supplement to also talk about the mental field of the Hospital in Akureyri, but I might be referring to the decision that the Landsville is at the ringway with its manpower, and it's certainly right to say that in the newly built and whole structure, it's not expected for a new treatment core. I can agree that although I have not been there for quite a long time, I can tell you what is presented here that my home on the Ring Road is very successful and that much that could be added. I have often mentioned that I was raised on one of my apartments, where I lived my first years in an exceptionally beautiful environment. At that time, a Cheppus Hospital was almost in the countryside, even though he is in the middle of the country today. That may be what I've only wondered about this location, and it may be that experts have different opinions about it, but I always think the environment is too important. I have strong faith that the exposure to nature, view of exposure to exposure to exposed air and exposure to nature can have a profound and beneficial effect on us as humans, whether we are dealing with sickness or not, and especially on those who suffer from mental health problems. I roll up here last, and I just want to get it back to, if the committee starts to discuss this, if it wasn't all as natural to wonder, when we're talking about the structure of a new mental hospital, that the location didn't have to be at the Circle Course. The place could be somewhere else. To me, I see beautiful nature and more space to develop interesting services where nature is used in the ministry. There is also a point of view that I have regarding the land hospital, which, of course, is the heart of our health system. I also feel that more institutions or businesses - and I'm not necessarily talking about some company that is being run for good - coming to health care. I wondered, " Is it necessary to be the Landspians? Or could it really be the mental - health hospital of Iceland and be a special institution that could even have basic knowledge, research, and development of mental health problems, thus imparting knowledge to other fragrances of the medical system, such as to produce health care? ' So I'm just opening it up to a welfare committee that gets this up for discussion, whether to expand the proposal from talking about Land Hospital or, like people tend to talk about Circle Road. The objective, of course, is now that the Landsspians will be almost all there. I welcome this suggestion. I think it's very important to improve the building, but it's just as important to consider that the big context of good health and, unfortunately, I'm very afraid that the tremendous way in which we've been in a community, and not just an Icelandic community, but the whole world, in a pandemic, makes mental health issues even more important. I think that this amount of isolation and the excessive restrictions that have been placed on the everyday lives of individuals, which are actually made by themselves or in small groups, have a general negative impact on mental health. So I feel that it is very important to be aware of this class, to feel that people, in the years ahead, and in the years that go by, and to support those best aware of how we can treat and fight for better public health and better mental health and mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I'm just thinking that the environment is very important there, especially when we're talking about outdoors, being able to get around and the like, that what happens to you isn't an empty building, a parking lot, and a car's weight. But I've studied this a little, and I've had a word with a lot of people who work in this sector, and we did too. A welfare committee when I sat there during my last term. There are two schools in this, and I think it's important that you listen to both of them and see what you can do. Some believe that there is an important need for mental - health professionals to be in a better environment, that there is a greater possibility of being close to nature, and that I agree with it. However, others, especially health care professionals and other experts, have spoken of the importance of mental and physical services and talk that if this is really a unit, it can reduce prejudice in the system and that one group of patients is no different from the other. We're dealing with all of this completely. I can agree with both, but it's still that if you're in the middle of a major musculoskeletal operation, you may need to get out of life less than the one dealing with mental challenges. For both groups, the same needs may not be complete. I'm gonna get to the other two scenes in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I realize it's these two schools, although I may not have studied them specifically, but I have heard them, and I have a certain understanding of them. When we built a smokeloaf in our day, a hospital of tuberculosis in the middle of the country, some viewed it as being outcasting people and putting them somewhere where no one could see. In recent times, we have a smokeunda, as well as one of the best rehabilitation hospitals in the North, if not only in Europe, just because of the location, because the environment is part of all treatment. It may well be that we need to look at the matter a little more widely, and I have a great grasp of it to form the emergency service, such as the acute mental care department, that it is normal to be somewhere in the middle and in other activities and probably even more practical to have it with other emergency services. However, the emergency services in the mental ward are open in office hours. If something comes up, you go into some other emergency department, and you are usually told to wait until it is opened in office time and can be received, which is naturally completely crazy. I understand it as from medical grounds, it's easier to treat an arm fracture, it's broken and it's known what to do, but when something breaks in our mind and mental field, it's more difficult to figure out what it is and how we can deal with it. But it's our job to find a way. I have an understanding of this, and I just want to point it out at this job, if a group takes up the job, that he is a little open to looking at both ways and where this is best, that we have not decided in advance that it is best to build another building on the Ringtrack to host this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u123	Madam President. This is exactly what I was going to discuss in a later answer, that the structure of a new mental hospital doesn't have to be at the Circle Road, and that's exactly what I agree with. Senator. I don't think that a mental hospital needs to be there, but I think it can really be anywhere. Even though we are now in this building on Ring Road, I think there's a possibility that there are other options we need to find. It may even be that the residence of a mental hospital at the Ring Road was quite useful to other activities that do not require the possibility of getting out, locking up divisions, or the like. It may well be that these are just ideal circumstances to build a better foundation than to build a mental hospital in a better environment. Hence, this, of course, is a judicial proposal to appoint a group. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the location of Smokeloaf, which is natural in a wonderful environment that we have in many other parts of the world. I would love to stand here all day and talk about health care and the use of human resources and the use of facilities in the health - care system around the country, the clinics, and other facilities. I think we'd all like to do better, but it's clear that these two places on Kleep and Ring Road, are just unannounced as well as the conditions in the north. Finally, I again have the opportunity to talk about my mental - health issues and mental - health services. No matter how much government officials and government ministers talk about the priority of mental health care, I see no direct action in the interests of mental health in these Covid procedures all, they're not. [[The president calls.]] The World Health Organization warned about this in March 2020, and there is no way to refer to a coin that is dropped into a mental - health team. [[The president calls.]] It takes real action, plan of action, and I'm calling for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to that question is that we could probably stay here all day and discuss health matters. But because of him. A member of the Kraga Hospital is also interesting to consider in the wake of this pandemic that a single hospital in the capital area, a hospital. He was supposed to be at the Ring Road, shut down the City Hospital, all of this together, and a great deal of things to put together on the same bench in the same building. So when there is a single pandemic, you may wonder: " Wait, is it good to be in more than one place when infection occurs? You can be sure of that. Although I know of all the reports on the Land Hospital, and indeed it is important and some practicality in this, especially its services, to have those who come to different diseases in the same place as in knowledge transfers of all these things, I've talked about it for years and have always seen some romance in having less unity in other places who care for specific factors. There is a smokelund, a very good example, in Mosfellstown. And maybe it would be great to have one lovely local mental hospital somewhere in nature, in Hafnarfjörður. That's the kind of cheek I have. Regarding my mental health, I agree. A senator who says, "I'll be with you." We will fight to improve our mental - health activities in this country. I've had inquiries, in fact, to a former health minister, which is a case during a pandemic, and I know that a surgeon has followed this carefully in his research. The first findings, if I remember correctly, were surprised, we were worried that this would have a greater impact on people's emotional lives, they didn't at first. Just as with the crisis, there is something that only reduces the pressure, and sometimes it is good to go in and take things slowly. [[The president calls.]] But I'm pretty afraid all this time is gonna come back on us, and that's what you worry about, and that's something we have to look into at the next semester. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u125	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for taking part in this discussion with us, and there was a number of interesting things he had to say here. When this same proposal was introduced last year, it may have been a bit of a major reaction; for mental health services to be strengthened outside a local hospital, some individual institutions or even companies might need to do it. And while this has appeared to be a very perplexing viewpoint, and I can agree that there is a particular need for particular attention to the location of places other than the Ring Road, I think it's a bit of a stamp again. In some way, there is an immediate discussion of mental - health services outside the hospital. Of course, there is now a lot of personal business in our medical system, and much is being done there. There is also an intervening difference between groups as to how much to increase it, etc. Perhaps I would like to state whether we cannot, regardless of our position on an independent health care provider, agree to improve the facilities of the mental wards, both at the National Hospital and at the Akureyri Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I may sense some kind of irritation about being pointed in other directions. This is not to be done to destroy the matter, not at all. It's simply because I believe in it. I think it's important, but maybe I'd like to look at it from a slightly different angle than that. The senators propose here. So I felt that it was important to participate in the discussion. I've mentioned Smokeloaf, and he's very special to me, but I also think of a Volgga run and he's a decommissioning hospital. That hospital is part of the mental health system, and it also has a special location and is outside the Hospital. Hv. Of course, we have many people involved in all kinds of important services, on the other hand, in the field of health but often in social relationships. I can name Hilveskot and Krysavík. If we are, for example. speaking of addiction, I have personally followed a standby and received samples of different services, and I can give credit to the mental health of the Land Hospital and the addiction department for good service there. So it is my opinion that there are a wide range of options in these matters. Hv. One senator asks: "Can we not all agree that the home needs to be improved by a mental hospital? I say, I don't know. But if you ask me: " Is it not important to improve the quality of our home where we deal with mental health and mental - health problems? Then I'll say, "Yes, all day long." Perhaps there is reason to point out that all the services do not necessarily have to be in a land hospital. This does not mean that some private company in a town should be in the ministry. [[The president calls.]] There could be another government agency that did so, and there could also be cooperation between interested persons in these diseases and the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u127	Madam President. I'm going to use this opportunity to express clearly that I feel that the Landspians should be a very strong bond, with both physical and mental health beings, physical and mental health. I feel that it is vital that we strengthen that factor. It refers to health care outside this system. Only three years have passed since it was approved here at a council of psychological services under the health insurance system. It's, like, a... One way to support those who are caring for mental - health services is to support them - what was it eventually? 250 million. K. of funds inserted into that system to abide by the law. Of these, 150 million had to be required at council contracts. It's one thing. Another is the financial well - being that the Vougs have faced, as shown in the financial debate. We have countless opportunities and opportunities to be more supportive of health care outside a land hospital that I wish would have governments use more wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. That wasn't exactly a question. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is not the same political class as it shines through here. It's good, too, and that's what this hall and the chair are for. I don't necessarily think it's important that this service be inside a facility called the Landspians, but I think it's important that we have a good mental - health hospital and just consider the possibility that he may not have to be a Landspirator. Then ask yourself, " Wait, why do I feel that way? ' I have to admit, having been at the council for five years and the latest on a budget board, that I find the rationalization of funds that go into the Land Hospital very lacking. It's really hard for me to see exactly what's being done for what money and how much things cost. That is one reason. There is also reason for me to feel that a discussion about health matters is crystal too much about Land Hospital. And I repeat once again: I think it's very important that we have a strong and healthy land hospital. What I'm talking about right now is only about control, has nothing to do with the wonderful people working in the hospital, for he was certainly nothing but with the fine people there. Hv. A senator came to the council hearing of reimbursement for a psychological service, which is now a case on which I was involved and supported, and it is urgent that we come to the benefit of the very first. I realize that we need to create some kind of rule around it. But because of it. A senator mentions it as a public health matter, which I have talked about. I think that by adding access to psychological services, we would save in the third degree of the hospital service, whether it's mental care or other aspects of the ministry. [[The president calls.]] So I think, in the long run, it's where our focus should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u129	President. The ban on possession and treatment of addictive substances can be attributed first to the 1920's when national legislation on the formation and trade of opiates, etc. was established in the 1920's. The law was based on the 1912 Haag release made by Iceland to become a member in 1921. The terms of the law were relatively narrow at first and only in the 1960's, 1970's, when all drugs were under law and protected and punished. Since then, drug abuse has continued to increase. The negative consequences of consumption have been more clear, and problems with consumption have increased. The evidence points to a failed attempt to cope with the addiction. At best, it doesn't work. At worst, it's harmful. However, in the more than half century of this experiment, there have been no fundamental changes in how drugs are dealt with. However, what has been taking place gradually in recent years is that there has been a loss of heavier penalty for possession of consumer doses. There has been an increasing emphasis on the damage to the government's action to counteract the negative consequences of consumption, although severe punishment is still being reported, unfortunately. The crime of substance abuse has been discussed in this country for years. The International Parliament has led to the beginning of this discussion in the Parliamentary resolution of 143. A legislature for developing policies to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug and drug abuse to help and protect consumers and their social rights, their partners and the rest of the community. In recent years society has agreed on the importance of helping people with addictions, rather than punishing them, giving them medical care. For a clear indication of this approach, see recent legal and regulations, e.g. by the fact that there is no small violation of illicit drug laws, without proof of criminality, with a sentence of a new traffic law that only the measurement of drug and drug in blood can be the basis for a loss of license and a sentence on alcohol consumption. The same trend has taken place in many parts of the world in recent years and decades, in which there has been a reduction in punishment or risk of drug abuse and attention, but it has been directed toward those with addiction problems who have appropriate health care. Despite the progress that has been made in the media in recent years, it will not be overlooked that there is still a penalty for possession and treatment of drugs for its own use, even if the amount of drugs is very low. Therefore, consumers or users of drugs may expect to be guilty or other forms of punishment. But what may outweigh is the duty of the police to stop and prevent these offenses. As noted by the chief of police in the capital area on the CDC of 149 C.E., police have no assessment of whether or not they will take over their heads when they interfere with a drug - acting person. In the meantime, the police have remained obliged to prevent the possession and treatment of consumers, to support the materials they find, and to use the necessary research measures to inform them of the potential offenses. While individuals who are involved in drug abuse, they may be expected to be stopped, physically searching, that materials will be maintained, and fined when they consult the authorities or when confronted by the police, no effective harmful policy can be maintained. It simply doesn't mix, a respectable president. It has been demonstrated in all the countries that have taken the step to the full in criminal abuse that is first caused by the delinquency of drug abuse, which results in real success in reducing the harmful effects of drug abuse. The fact is, the number of deaths in Iceland has increased beyond that in our neighboring countries. If we examine the causes of death, they suggest that the numbers of deaths due to overdose or drug abuse are up to two or three times higher in this country than in Europe. President. According to current legislation, prevention and treatment of addictive and drug use are prohibited and punished in the Icelandic Precinct. This includes treatment of other substances commonly referred to as prescription medicinal products. Even with very little doses, their defenses are fully punished according to these articles. The violation of the law concerns fines or prisons up to six years. This bill suggests that the quality defined as a punishment on paragraphs 2 and 3. the possession of addictive and drug laws is limited in terms of the definition of the criminal action. However, it is conditional that the amount of chemicals does not exceed the amount considered for its own use so that protection from substances will still be punished when it is evident that they are intended for sale or distribution. There will be import, export, sale, exchange, delivery, production and production of substances that continue to be punished. Thus, it is certain that for what may be considered a more serious violation of addiction and drugs law, it is still possible not to punish users for the possession of substances designed for their own use. Regarding the amount of material that an individual can have in his or her territory, a minister must set up a Regulation that determines the amount of addictive and drug that is mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3. may be considered for your own use. The actual quantity to be used should be based on the 10-day ingestion dose. We have discussed some of the definitions of consumer dosages, but the arrangement presented here was first presented in the Committee of the Isthmian Department of Health at a Council of 150th. According to that authority, the minister is allowed to define in more detail the quantity of each material to be considered as the amount of it that is to be consumed and then regarded as an innocent amount of it. This is in harmony with what our neighbors have done, since several countries have already taken doses of crime. The European Commission with drugs and drug addiction is an independent European Union agency and its role is to provide policy-makers, experts and investigators with reliable, detailed, and broad-specting information on drugs. The Agency has already compiled the legal status of consumers in terms of criminality consumption and possession of consumers throughout Europe. According to the Agency, several countries have the European Union's definition of consumption dosages or cross - references to a small amount of substances that could then be considered to be their own consumption. They are Portugal, Spain, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, and Latvia. Some countries have defined a short list of the most common drugs, while other detailed lists of all the substances defined as illegal in international drug and drug contracts. It is clear that already many countries have taken the job to define consumers in one way or another. In view of this, it is normal to seek knowledge from European countries that have decades of drug abuse experience. Police already have standards for the level of material that are considered serious, so to speak, but it would be possible to consider the fractions authorized by the police to complete a police officer's fine, or to look to the minor offenses that no longer have a criminal record, making a list of doses of consumption available to that amount of material. There is now no criminal criminal record when a fine is set below 100,000 dollars. Whatever the case, there are many ways to define consumption doses, so much is certain. This is the end of the same method as found in the bill of Health Ministers, who did not be decommissioned at the 151th Council, which required the Minister to set up a regulation on the amount of materials required for personal use. In the 3rd. The bill we are considering now is provided with a provision for the uptake of materials in the possession of individuals. It gives the authority of police's recording agents to avoid reaching out to individuals over 18 years of age when the amount of material is considered to be within their own use. This will make sure that even those who have been purchased illegally, they will not have obtained material for themselves. The police in those cases did not have authority or obligation to confiscate such materials. In fact, the record of substances has been found to have a very negative effect on the consumer who is forced to obtain more material, often leading to further crime or violence. However, it is suggested that the police continue to have the authority to produce chemicals of individuals under 18 years of age. She is also responsible for her child's well - being in line with child - protection laws, but when it comes to an adult, the police cannot play the same protective role. With a section four. The bill is such a new preliminary principle added to the health - care minister law to order a team to monitor the impact and benefit of criminal possession of drugs. It is essential to follow legal adjustments and to ensure that the impact of their induction will be in line with expectations and that the funds saved will be useful to promote prevention and health and social services in order to help people with addictions to recover. As regards the implementation of the law, it is determined in the matter of granting Ministers sufficient time to respond to legislation and enforcing the regulations laid down in C-Collar 1. That is why the law is proposed to take effect on June 1, 2022. President. I'd like to discuss why criminal abuse is so important. How important it is that as lawgivers, we can accept it when a course that has been under way for many decades is not working! We're talking about decades experience with this criminal policy, and we have to be able to accept and face it when that policy doesn't work, when that policy has not worked, and when this policy is harmful. We must be able to face the fact that our approach to addiction has not been successful. We need to be able to look at the evidence and science, and we need to make a new decision to shape a new course, and we need to be not afraid to do so. We cannot continue to refuse to face the failure of the expedition, perhaps because we are afraid of the message it sends to our young people. But what are the messages we sent to our young people today? If you fuck with drugs, you're a criminal whose law is to be punished. If things go wrong, you will not be able to trust a health - care professional completely, as well as trust a police officer to help you. So people are less likely to seek help when they really need it. In our neighboring countries, research has shown that it is a fact that young people do not seek help in difficult situations. When confronted with violent situations or other dangerous situations, people do not respond to help because they do not view the police as their friend. Besides, President, young people aren't stupid. It's no big deal to get information in the modern world. I'm sure young people know a lot more about drugs than most of us in this room. Hence, it is important that prevention work is based on the right information, not on restrictions and fears. If we lie to our young people, we cannot be trusted. It's just that simple. Here are some facts: 80▪90% of everyone using a drug does not have a problem with the use of drugs. 80◯90% of those in trouble with use will still stop consumption or self-abuse without intervention, usually around 30 years of age. That's what we know. So anyone who gets into trouble with drugs is a fraction of a crime. These people, this group, this tiny, delicate group, are as the people we're supposed to take and care of, and we don't help them with prejudice and perimeters as they exist in the present system. Even more, prejudice and perimeters are more likely to put the others at risk, i.e. those who are not at risk of substance abuse. When we cross over and increase the relationship between these young people, we are increasing the risk that they will have a problem later. Let's just use a little thought. Consider the logical conclusion. People who have experienced childhood or life - threatening traumas, people who live in a constant state of grief, are connected too, have an inability to connect with loved ones, society, and themselves, and are led into a drug abuse that becomes a drug problem or an addiction - how do we treat these people? The punishment that we use in the form of fines, maintenance of substances, or the humiliation of treating people as criminals and second - rate citizens is not about to help sick people or to scare people away from drug abuse. We know that. The data shows it. If we use our thinking ability, she'll tell us. Punishment increases peripherality and, as a result, adds to a relationship, an obstetricity, which is more often than the root of the addiction. We don't even have to reason, for we can bless our research, and there are many, President. If we as a community would like to help people with peripheral people, we need to build bridges and brains, not increase their bonding habits. It is important that we take this discussion, and I have taken it several times here at the council. I have also met people, both addicts and people who have had addiction problems themselves, who are overly skeptical about the rightfulness of drug abuse and are overly afraid of the message we send them to society and what the effect it will have. I just think it's normal anxiety, natural warnings, because it has something to do with that feeling, this fear. But as lawgivers, we cannot build laws and legislation on our emotions. We've got to do it from data. We have to look at science. We have to look at what other countries have done, what the results are and what works. That is how we build legislation. Studies around the world indicate that drug - abuse laws have very little effect on the use of drugs. There is considerable evidence that there is really no connection between the strictness of the law and the frequency of substance abuse in each country. The factors that really matter are cultural, social, and economic. In other words, the abuse of drugs has failed completely. It doesn't work. In the United States alone, some 75 billion have been involved in the addiction war since 1968. Since the ban was imposed in 1968, nearly 30,000 individuals have been arrested. If we had released the war from drugs, and instead spent half a billion each year in mental and educational services to children who are failing, would it have resulted in better results and happier people? I suggest that the members of Congress who are involved in this discussion and are objecting to deviateing from the drug - abuse policy of drugs come up here and argue for the benefits of criminalism and the legitimate decades of persecution against young people and those who are ill. Because if the senators wish to continue on the current course, all of us should ask to see the evidence that the current course will produce the desired results. It's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u130	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a powerful and good speech. I wanted to come up here to agree with many of the things that happened. A senator says here. Of course, this matter is not new, and as explained here in the historical context, this has developed and the discussion has been long, often painful, and difficult. It's been difficult for me, not that I support criminal policy, not, but that it's just the fear; the fear of increasing access, the fear for me as a mother of four children, whether all the steps we take in this direction are right, that we're definitely doing the right thing. I'm pretty sure that's how it is for most people who put questions on crime charges. Of course, we're not talking about criminal abuse here. We're talking about preventing consumers from being penniless. It is a vital factor when we are looking at punishments, when we are looking at fines, that these, of course, take the lead in a very sensitive group, but especially those most responsible, such as those who carry drugs or are behind the big picture. I haven't quite made up my mind because I feel that I need to do more research. But I wanted to come up here and say that I appreciate all the discussions that are going on, and I'm going to read about it and to benefit myself so that I can make informed and hopefully make the right decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u131	President. Thank you. A senator for his resistance and his honesty and his emotions. I'm totally agreeing with her, I think it's just right, people are scared, and that's what this is all about. That is why it is so important that we look to other nations. Let's just look at Switzerland, where heroin was criminal. It's a very conservative state, and the thought of doing it went very wrong. Everything went crazy. But what happened was that there is no one today who would want to go back because infectious diseases went down, prostitution disappeared from the streets, drug problems decreased, overdose deaths disappeared completely. And five years after this, even the most conservative group wouldn't go back to their original hopes. In Portugal, the money was replaced by crime and health care. Drug consumption in Europe is less than average, drug abuse was reduced in the 15◯24 years age group, HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis B and C, infection, and death from substance abuse agents. Nobody's going back there. The states that have stopped punishing consumer drugs, to stop punishing people with drug problems, do not go back. That's why they realize it's working. But again, because of what. paritaprevir I strongly recommend a book by Johann Hari, from Icelandic togle the cry, or in English Chasing the screem. There, the history of the war with drugs and, I would say, all who are interested in learning should read that book.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u132	A respectable president. Hv. Senators and non-communicators and a nation that's watching us live. My name is Tómas, called Tommi. Yesterday I told you I was an older citizen. I am still an older citizen, and I am also an inactive alcoholic in recovery. Since June 1980, I have been an inactive alcoholic. I've studied these matters well. I've been in this environment for years, and I feel like I know it like my palm. I am not sure that drug abuse is a solution to the problem. There are many young people around me, and I still haven't met one person who doesn't take drugs, and mostly those who don't smoke grass because it's illegal. If they don't, it's just because they don't want to. No one sees it as illegal to smoke weed. I went to a conference at the Egehill treatment station in the town of Newport, Rhode Island, March 1985. It was so that I would work for the U.S.A., and I went to this conference to study all the latest of those times on drugs. I have fresh memories of one of those who held lectures, a very respected man, John Wallace, who was then considered one of the better ones, as did Þórarinn Tyrfingsson of his time here. He said: "If I had on this table ten of the strongest and worst drugs we know today, including heroin, qualade, afetamine, methfetamine and cocaine, and the tenth was alcohol, and if I were to take one of them because it was dangerous, I would take alcohol. Alcohol is the most dangerous drug ever. The doctors at Vogi say that the people who go far away are the people who only drink. Regarding drug and drug abuse, what is a 10-day dose? It can be anything. If I was going to get started today and have fun taking cocaine, I and my two or three friends would be able to make 1 gram count and we could be a really high school, and we could have fun all night. After two years of constant consumption, I would easily take 5 grams per day, so a dose of ten days is 50 grams of cocaine. Cocaine costs $18500. The gram and they tell me, because I'm now a little involved in people who've been on drugs and have done a good study of this, that if they're lucky and get a strong cocaine they're paying for maybe $12,000,14,000 k. to sell at $16500. But if it's strong enough, they can cut in half, so they're selling a dose that was supposed to cost 18,500 in 37,000. We're talking about a guy who's good at business and who wants to make money and can get away with his 5 or 10 grams is just making a lot of money, just not going to sell it on a good night. If he finishes his intake, he only goes to immigrants and gets more and continues to sell. This, in my opinion, will increase the consumption of drugs. Have you seen the Dopesick Show? It started with an oxycontin, 10 mg, and then it did not work and then it was 20 mg, then 40 mg, so 80 mg, and this is exactly the same as with e.g. cocaine. My friends who are free of drugs tell me that at the worst, they went up to 10 grams a day. So I don't see that this ideologies of crime are intended to end. Of two evils, I'd rather have this completely legalized and only controlled how it's brought in. Because today, if it's criminal, whoever's on it can be on it, and those who make the most of it are immigrants. Some day or weeks ago, a woman was taken with just four pounds [4 kg]. Its value is 60 to 170 million. It's being moved in quite right out there, all over the place, and all I can see is that this will greatly increase if this is going to be criminal. The only way to stop the habit is to prevent it, and then help after the person has lost control of his or her consumption, which is very common. You know there are hundreds of people on the waiting list to get into The Vig and a few hundred people on the waiting list at the other posts, both Krysavík and Hlvement Suite, so the problem is there. But it is not the solution to crime because it makes it so easy to carry and sell and encourage consumption. Some people selling only sell enough for themselves to buy free. But there are others who see money in it, and they're just selling money to make money and not doing anything for themselves. A man who sells 5 grams a day may be making 50,000,700,000 bucks, even more, and if he does this a few days a week, he may have 200,000 bucks a week, just in his pocket, all black money. It's so easy to encourage someone to try it if it's no longer illegal. You can try it, you tell the next guy. Okay, this isn't illegal, try it, then try it, and it's like Oxycontin, you try it, and it's so good. You've been given a 'nden' saying they're doing the same thing. You take one dose and feel so good that you are not able to control yourself. That's how drugs are used, unfortunately. You can't control yourself when you've started at a different level. I urge you to think this through. I don't think it's time to take this off. As I'm saying, I'd rather legalize these materials and we'd get our hands on the import. I know that in Colorado they make tens of millions of dollars because they've legalized marijuana. We can make this a major source of income for a nation and state if it is to be made as accessible as it will be by delinquency.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u133	President. Thank you. Clearly, there is much experience and time that has begun to think and think about these matters. But I have to come up and correct a lot of facts. A senator, though aware that this is a good idea, is that in most cases when people discuss these matters, there is always a good mind behind it. This is not to say that after experimenting with drugs, people fail to control themselves. It's just not like that at all. As I traced earlier in my speech, and I repeat it only because I think it's important, it's 80 to 90% of people who use drugs don't cause trouble. And 80◯90% of those who are in trouble with use, usually before or around 30 years of age, will do so on their own and without exogenous intervention. If that were really so, you just couldn't control yourself after a test, for example. opioids, we'd be talking about all people who go to the hospital for some kind of operation and have to take opioids as just addicts, and they're not right. Most of us don't. The problem faced by people who are dealing with addiction is social in a large way, and that is what we are preventing here. I sense that the main concern is what's happening. The senator turns to the question of whether this will increase sales, so I would like to ask him: Does the current criminal legislation, the current drug - trade policy, really prevent the sale? [[The president calls.]] I don't see it. Drug addicts have never been as accessible as they are in the community today despite 50 years of criminalism in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Is the current policy working to prevent sales?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u134	I'd like to remind the speakers to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u135	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. The question was: Does present laws back from eating? No, it doesn't back off because, as I said earlier, I don't know anyone who doesn't smoke grass because it's illegal, people may not smoke grass just because they don't want to. Admittedly, not everyone who drinks alcohol becomes alcoholics, and not everyone would get an addict. However, this will make drugs more bioavailable if they become criminal, because it is so easy to offer them for sale. As for heroin, one of my friends spent a long time in heroin, and he told me the other day that these prescription drugs used in the pharmacy would be much better than ever. Heroin, who you at one time thought was the top of life. But it isn't. We're dealing with such a huge problem that somehow is not thought to end by running to and from crime. I understand that there are a lot of people who start off and are on drugs; I'm not judging them because I was on drugs myself; my drug was alcohol, unfortunately. I'm sorry, I mean, I wanted cocaine, but I just never saw it. I quit because I lost my grip and had to seek help, which I did, and so it is. - Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u136	President. I appreciate the answer. As I say, I understand all this anxiety. Now I read in my speech a list of nations that already use criminal drugs and experience it many years of experience. There has been no increase in consumption and no increase in systemic drug bioavailability. The most important thing -- I'd like to say that it is far more important than the increase in consumption - is how many people have problems with their consumption. That figure has already fallen in the face of crime. There are fewer people with problems. Today's policy has failed in that it seems to be unabated for drugs in society, and it is the same problem that is going on around the world. Modern criminalism has not achieved the goal of stopping drugs. It's sold, even if it's illegal. It's moved in, it's made, people buy it and use it. Then I don't fully understand this concern, if we stop punishing users, and I'd rather try to help those who have problems, how to increase the sales compared to the present environment that doesn't keep it in any way. Hv. A senator is concerned about the ten - day dose. There is something that can be discussed on a welfare committee and adjusted. We are talking about learning from those countries and countries around us who have tried to do this. There are plenty of countries that have defined high levels of consumption. Then we must be able to learn from it and take it into consideration when setting this policy here and this Regulation. I have no doubt that the health secretary will benefit from that knowledge in the preparation of rules. [[The president calls.]] So I just want to ask you why. Senator: Do we not want to move from a policy that has proved true after decades of lack of efficacy? [[The president calls.]] Shall we continue, or shall we try something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u137	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. My last words are: I told you earlier that I didn't know anyone, and I never had been aware that no man didn't smoke grass because it was illegal. But there are plenty of people who don't eat cocaine because it's illegal. Once it stops being illegal, it's so much easier and more accessible to start testing. I'm not saying everyone gets hooked, not at all. But a large number of people will get hooked on it, indiscriminately, as more tests are tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u138	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this fine story and thank her for taking the initiative to present this fine subject. I'm proud to be on it. To me, it's all about very simple fundamentals, which is just that we should deal with the health - related problems of the drug addicts, not in the justice system, not in the law enforcement system, but in the health system. In that respect, it is particularly appropriate to talk about this now directly following a discussion of mental - health activities in Iceland. Whatever it is. A senator does with this bill, and with her importers, is taking the heat from a health minister, and I don't believe that he will support this case or provide a comparable bill at any time during the elected period. And here we come to what may matter in this discussion, which is that this bill, in all principle, is exactly like the bill of the former Supreme Court. A health minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, set out for us last. That bill went through 1. ... six times at a welfare committee meeting, 30 reviews were received, most of which were somewhat positive, but for some reason it was appropriate to put the matter to sleep and not resolve it before the end of the council. No meaningful explanation has ever been made. That case was so determined. Well, that's how it works. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and others, e.g. Sigríður Ingadóttir, former councilwoman of the United States, and many fine senators, for years, have presented a case of this kind and have fought for criminal consumption doses. In 2020, when I recall correctly, the members of today's governments passed such cases and, if I remember correctly, but then responded in exactly what they did, perhaps justified their actions in the very way that there would be a prime minister of health care. But now we've taken the heat from the government. This bill is in place. It's a good thing, and it's important to have someone here who's going to have a quick and careful performance at the council. If everything goes down, then at least I'll give you the money. These political groups at the General Assembly, which are more progressive and more liberal in supporting this issue. I don't believe that this is the only way to get it going, and I think it's supposed to happen as soon as possible, because of the views involved in drug abuse at any given moment. A senator did so well earlier. So I'm not gonna have this any further today. Maybe in the end, I'll just request that those senators in the administration home that this must have crossed the line in the last term come up here and explain what it's all about. What is so fascinating about our modern criminal policy? What is so dangerous about this arrangement laid down in the bill and in the bill? Minister of health now the last spring? Why can't you just agree with this and take this crucial step as soon as possible? That's it, I think, today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u139	Madam President. I would like to thank the advert for the talk given earlier and for others here and there who have spoken. I'm very into setting up a new approach when it comes to all of these matters and that we need to make much more of it as a community to view all of this as health problems rather than the problem of the punishment system, police, and court cases. Somehow, I feel that our current course is more likely to make us feel like we're doing something useful than we're doing something useful. But sadly, and especially in this case, banning bad things is often an inexpensive and inexpensive solution to extremely complex and difficult health problems. You see, that's how it's been done in excellent speeches, both at ease. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, and with him too. paritaprevir Tómas Tómasson, the addicts and alcoholics are sick people, they are often chronically weak people. Alcoholism is a mental disorder, defined as a mental illness in Iceland and the World Health Organization. Then we must deal with the consequences of this mental illness, not with anyone else. It's a health problem, and that's how we have to approach it. I'm an importer in this case, and I'm glad that it's come to pass and that it supports all its primary objectives. In fact, despite being an importer, I'm going to make some comments on the bill and hope to affect it in the process. It may, in particular, turn toward the quantity that can fall under the definition of the bill as presented here. It says, by permission of the president: The secretary shall set up a regulations that require the quantity of narcotics mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3. may be considered for your own use. The actual quantity to be used should be based on the 10-day dosing schedule. There, of course, we can have a wide range of opinions as to what is the amount of consumption and how much they are supposed to be in the law and all of it. I have noticed in this discussion that many people are afraid to find out the difficulty of identifying this, even using it as an excuse not to support the case, it is so difficult to figure out what should be in the law on this matter. It's not that complicated. We just have to decide what it is and then work out what it is. A 10-day consumption dose may be all too high in my opinion, to develop from highly ill addicts who have been on drugs for a long time. They're using extreme amounts, and I don't really know if it's appropriate to aim for them. In real life, salesmen are often involved in the quantity of these materials. This is one of the tools that I think we need to deal with. But that does not change the purpose of the bill itself, its main ingredient, and especially the thought and emotion in it, is something that I take my mind to heart. Just because we're discussing it on these grounds, I'd also like to mention that we've been trapped in a community of dealing with the drug problem and the problems of alcoholics and addicts with regulations and bans. On the other hand, we are less involved in strengthening education and strengthening both effective and effective preventive measures, and we are to do much more in this society, as well as in the treatment itself. When we discuss this matter and when we change certain things into the basics of how we see it all for ourselves, we must also think about the treatment part and the prevention and the like. I agree with the opinion expressed earlier that the illness seen by addicts is that there is no ill addict in some moral conversation with himself about the moral value of using these drugs. They are used by men because they are sick. It is an addiction, and it is the addiction that moves, not whether it is allowed or forbidden. When we consider these matters and think about them, there is a measure of anxiety. It is just that the power of law and imprisonment have no powerful influence on those who are subject to it when we face this problem. I don't intend to rule it out, but it's too much of a factor. It's just that a sick addict will do anything for the next dose because he's sick, not because he's mean and not because he's so morally twisted that he doesn't realize the difference between what's forbidden and what's allowed. There's a very important point in all of this. People who are treated with minor material resources are more likely to be helped by the authorities than by police court or police interference. So I rather the way I came in here, I think it's a good idea that a single side product of this sort could be that those who land in police clones with what we've defined as normal consumer dosages get some sort of request or a check for an interview with a drug counselor might rather than be circling somewhere in the justice system. It's, for example. one thing that could be of great benefit and benefit. Of course, those who are treated with such substances are small and are using them, either in the form of a condom or because they are addicts, not necessarily receptive to help. But it would be better to try rather than charge these people for money, fine them, or even after experiences that the penalty could be heavier if they were to break paroles or anything like that. Then we can ask a question that was raised earlier, which is: Why don't we just legalize drugs? Why are we just thinking about these dosages? Why don't we just legalize drugs? Wouldn't that be just a solution? I think it's a discussion that we need to take further and think about as a community. But I've watched these matters very carefully, and I know them very well from many sides, and as a community, we are very short in our discussion. The debate is so immature yet that this bill would be at least The first thing about such a long - term journey could be a start. The other might come later. Why do I say that? This is because when we're talking about whether to use drugs, we've never been able to deal with all these questions. Such a change would call for a major conversion in society, and I feel that people haven't quite figured it out. So we need to start asking ourselves questions. Who's the one to sell? Where should we buy materials from? Who can produce any material? Will the State produce meth? Can private people buy amines from anywhere and then produce other substances from it? Can dedicated individuals apply for some sort of license and build a factory somewhere at Esluela and start producing drugs? These are all questions we do not ask ourselves or try to answer when talking about the larger question, Should we go all the way to legalize the materials? It is all these moral questions that we have not been dealing with in our community. It's all so shallow, you think, that we've not come to the point of presenting such bills to the General Assembly. At any rate, I could not support that case, but this may be a fine start in later life. In any case, it is a major injury with the same condition. I agree with it. paritaprevir This is what Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson mentioned. There is good reason for those who have all their ambitions about the fact that we are dealing with an addiction problem of greater humanity and humanity rather than with harsh punishment to explain what is so good about the present situation. Why is it good for our prisons to be half filled with people who have a job because they have drugs and the hope of profit to continue, simply because there is a great deal of profit when things are banned and somehow in some underground economy, and they can have an inexplicable amount of money from being in one of such questionable company? Why is it good for us to let such extraordinary sums of money to the police, to the courts, in all our systems to deal with problems that could be handled in a much mild way? And that may be a bit of a problem. We do not explain the problem facing society over drugs with the bill we discuss here, but it is part of an excellent concept that is widely used, which is the term of injury. This would greatly reduce society's damage, especially if we took the step that if some people are taken by consumption of the police, even out of conflict, they will be helped by some kind of reference rather than by going the other way. I'm glad that this case has come to pass, and I hope that the U.S. Congress will take up a good discussion about it and then be given a proper attention to the committee that will address it after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u140	President. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine speech and interesting points. I'll certainly take this as a roadside to work on a welfare committee. I can hear it. A senator says about ten days of consumption. There's something I'm sure that the solution can be found in a way that works to make sure that we're not punishing people who really have materials for their own use. There were other comments. I also wanted to agree with the thought that we didn't just have to legalize. I completely agree with that. Really, I like to think about what it is, and it's a rule. It's just this total lack of rules, this jungle and a black market. The legal process just means that we're creating a rule around this, and I think it's just a conversation we have to take. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says that we are not far enough in this discussion. What may be most important is the harmful reduction of the aquifers right now. We're seeing an increase in deaths caused by overdose in Iceland, and according to U.S.A., the opioid problem in the country is growing. These are things we can handle and prevent by going in the way that other nations have taken possession of drugs used to abuse drugs, i.e. to stop punishing users of drugs. It has been shown in countries where they have tried to reduce the mortality of an overdose and thus reduce the drug problem, reduce the problem of people who use drugs, and that must be the goal of all of us. It just has to be. There was no question in this, I'm just agreeing with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u141	A respectable president. I agree that it's good when you agree with what you're saying, and you just take it all the way, and you're really happy about it. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is ready to examine the subject carefully and carefully so finely that we agree on the basics so that we can take some consideration of the definitions to use in the bill and that it will be the rule. It's a bit much, I'm afraid, like it's there, and I'm glad they're ready to meet it in some way. I would very much like to correct what I've said before that alcoholics and addicts are sick people and sick people deserve to be treated with dignity while they're not doing anything but hurting themselves. Of course, it is different if humans are influenced by some kind of action and are doing more serious things, commit crimes, and do such things. There's only another discussion. If people abuse themselves and don't have much material and obviously aren't selling anything or something, then we deal with them as weak people who are gentle and humane, not harsh and penalties.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u142	Madam President. I want to thank you. For the persistence of this matter and for the ongoing struggle for humanity and love for those who have a drug problem, a senator and an executive of the case are deeply involved. My opinion is that a person who is using drugs has a particular problem in this regard. There may now be differences of opinion about that. I'm not going deep into this case. We've been through this several times at the council Hall, but there are some topics I'd like to come in on. First, it's about humanity, from A to O. It's about love and it's about treating junkies and asking, "What happened to you instead of asking what's wrong with you?" There I quote Gabor Maté, who is also an outstanding psychologist who has also made a movie called, by permission of president: The Wisdom of Trauma, and I encourage everyone to watch that wonderful movie. He has, like, one. Entering prisons in the United States, traveling everywhere, and asking such questions as these: Where did this start? I think, and that's why it's so good that we're in this discussion right after the discussion on the construction of new psychiatry, that it all starts with a shock. I think that people who have a very good interest in life are not experiencing some type of trauma in their lives, of course, you can be in some situation, but I suspect that the more persistent and the like you get that doesn't offer some sort of childhood trauma, the less likely you are to get involved in the hard use of drugs. Of course, here we are primarily looking at this humanity and that fear that addicts have, and I got to know it, both my work as a lawyer and I heard it when we were discussing it on the ground. The welfare committee at the last and last council, that for active addicts, the fear of calling for help when something happens, is bored by death. Drug addicts are afraid to call an ambulance because when it's known that a party is involved, it's a rule that the police come first to secure the scene before the ambulances come in and they fear punishment. It's totally clear, that's all. There'll be fear, possibly you're on parole, you're on parole, and you may fear the police just because of your previous contact. What also became evident in our work at night. The welfare committee was that occasional police officers, who were either opposed or not, still use criminal abuse and thus violate by law. It's so special. When we received reports that on the way with a client's treatment or into a mental ward, a client who was in a lot of drugs was possibly in trouble because of his drug consumption, the officer allowed the client to dispose of the drugs on the floor of the car. This was the man's kindness, but he was totally against the humanity we're talking about right here. When the policeman was told that he was breaking the law with this, and it was actually possible for him to be accused of doing this, he became a little jumpy and, in effect, speechless because he understood the humanity, not taking an extremely ill person, and putting him in a prison cell because he was using drugs. But he was not really allowed to do anything else because it is illegal. But not all are like this one, who has great humanity. I was as a lawyer called at noon hours at the police station for the release of clients and to take the client to a press release that had been smoking one joint behind the Board of Control. That was his crime. You thought in the light of everything and in the light of something like that. the debate we have today regarding metoo, the sexual abuse that waits for three years at the police level, and a lot of other cases whether it's possible that police time is better spent than with individuals in town who smoke a joint or something like time just lawyers and the taxpayers' money. Of course, the extremes in either direction are, but the main thing in this matter is this humanity, that we are not punishing the weak, that we rather try to put our arms around them, create an environment in which they trust the health system, trust the social systems, the welfare systems, trust the police, because it is not important that they trust the police, and that they trust to see the police when they are attacked or something in their lives, and trust their own weaknesses. That's what we need to build up in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u143	A respectable president. Tonight, I recommend a conjugal proposal for accelerated court treatment and improved the legal status of the victims of domestic violence during a marital breakup. That's what I do on behalf of you. Senator and 1st of this matter, Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson. This proposal is now submitted for the second time. Hv. A senator recommended a bill recently related to the change in marriage law, but the goal of starting work is to initiate the necessary change of law, change of regulations as well as procedures necessary to improve the status of the victims of domestic violence in the process of understanding and further laying the basis for a financial contribution to the seminary. So these two issues hang together and support each other, so to speak, i.e. the bill and this synonym that is being recommended here. If this arrangement is adopted, as I expect it to be, the Council will hide the Minister of Justice and Social Affairs and Employment Ministers to review marriage laws as well as the regulations for the administration of marriage procedures and the regulations for the conditions of the application and practices of the Committee of the Committee of the Council of the Committee of Ministers. There will also be a review of the Regulation on the Management Board according to children's legislation and the rules for counselling and reconciliation that were set up for temporary use in 2013. The objective of the review and change presented here is to promote a more rapid treatment for divorce, especially in order to improve the status of the victims of domestic violence. Opinions to investigate shall be made that include the use of legal divorce without the permanent division or agreement of children's custody and that it is easier for people to make this change, i.e. and this agreement for custody, and without courts to come. The objective and ideologies are that the interests of those who tolerate violence in close relationships will be better cared for when the offender is seeking divorce from his mate and at the same time his or her partner. At the same time, the regulations of the laws on the terms of exodus would be expanded and cleared immediately so that the treatment of divorces, financial exchanges, and prescients will not be as burdensome to the victims of domestic violence today. I think that all those who have insight into the group and group of crimes that violence in close relationships, which we once talked about as domestic violence, know that this period is during the search for divorce and wait for divorce is the victim and the children that are very difficult. Thus, it is an independent goal that this process takes simply less time than it is now. In preparation of this and the bill of follow-up, it was observed that the strictness of the rules of strict adherence is beneficial only to a small proportion of those who are subject to violence in close relationships because it is relative to the income limit for who has the right to use and that has happened, as so often as they want to be in those situations where there is a range of resources to support them, that income limits are simply so low that they do not achieve their objective. This has meaning, especially in view of the fact that 60% of all women suffering from violent relationships and domestic violence are under investigation in the position for which the job market disappears, simply because of the pressures of the situation. In addition, the current pantheonical guidelines require that abduct if there is a difference between close contacts, not be given. So, of course, this principle is designed to influence situations when it comes to couples who are getting divorced because of violence or partly because of it. We know, more dignified President, that violence at home is one of the most common forms of domestic violence committed in Iceland. We all know such sad stories and heartbreaking realities, since they are usually closer to women in this situation and harder to deal with, even in the mouth of the mate. It should not be that when a person is suffering, he or she makes the difficult decision to leave his mate that the law is another stress factor. This proposal also suggests an analysis of the human resources and the financial needs of the county to ensure the careful and efficient management of divorce issues and the relevant issues. The number of cases that the Commission has to deal with in this category is large and has increased, so it has proved to be the administrative reforms, such as other sensitive organisations, difficult to resolve matters within the times when it would be normal and within the timeliness we have as a community to require. This is especially true when we are discussing divorce, which is rooted in violence and debates because of violence and the financial resources and custody of children. Transporters estimate that there is evidence for the increase in resources and resources needed to achieve a better speech and a more efficient system. Therefore, the need for diagnostic work on what it takes to come so that we can achieve acceptable results in this. It is suggested that these necessary reforms be realized and carried out as soon as possible and that a bill with a change in the law will be submitted, no later than October 1, 2022, along with the report I left behind on the right question of the need for capital and human resources. A respectable president. I wish for this council-sounding proposal, which is of great importance to my business, especially to consider what the debate is about violence today and how our system, the legal system, and other community organizations as well as the rest of the community, can do better in this regard, will be sent to the General and Education Committee and it is my earnest wish that this case will take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u144	A respectable president. I move here for the third time, and hopefully the last, this bill of mine, which lies in releasing ashes. It's not a very complex adjustment to me. It goes on to say that rather than the government, the authority, the government, has strong, broad opinions and rules around where and how to distribute the ashes of the dead, it is simply the will of the deceased who is to be in charge. That's how I'm here to account for a change of 7th paragraph. this law, that the individual will have it all. A respectable president. I have to know that for the time I've made this case, I've got a lot of messages, e-mails, and phone calls. I love it, and if any of the people who have been sending me these comments should be watching now, I really appreciate it. Many of these stories have been quite personal and are, in effect, dealing with grief and wanting everything for their dead loved one. What is more important to all of us than to fulfill the desire of those closest to us after they leave this life? Yet, many tell you stories about their failure to comply with these wishes because of the principles in force. Today, this is how we are still in the environment where we expect people to be buried in the usual way. But it's open to the incineration, and there are more and more people who make that choice. If the person wishes to be burned, then the ashes are also expected to be buried in a traditional cemetery in the ground until a dust can be made. If the person now wishes not to do so, which is obviously the will of the authority by these laws, he or she can be applied for permission and should be applied to the businessman. But the law can be encouraged where to grant this permission. I just don't see any reason why we have such strong opinions about how this earthly remnant is treated. This bill has been given quite a talk. As previously said, I have received much messages, and the media too have shown this keen interest. It has never come out of a committee after 1. ... but as I said before, I hope this is the last time I'm doing this case and I hope we succeed in overcoming it. The main argument I've heard against this case, against letting the person take it personally and trust the people to respect the wishes of the deceased, is that it would confuse our beautiful arrangements, which are in the cemetery and the important memories of a cemetery. I'm just going to say here that I think churchyards and cultural traditions are all about cemeterys, including. around Christmastime, where it is customary for the camp to go light candles and remember dead loved ones, incredibly beautiful, and important. I don't think this bill would have any effect on the beauty of cemeterys; it should be good and beautiful places in urban areas where people can meet and remember dead relatives. But if the deceased now wished that the ashes would be scattered in a pack of wolves so that I might take just a few examples, and that the next person would like to put a memory shield on a beautiful tree there and be able to gather and remember a family, I don't know why we should forbid it. But today, there is absolutely no sign of the place where ashes are scattered. Of course, I understand that it is not possible to bring ash and spread into the park with someone else because they once lived there, and it is addressed, of course, the Minister has a legal authority to write it in. In view of the situation that more and more people choose to be burned, we have built special gardens. Today's discussion of cemeteries may be beginning to revolve around the environment, extending space in urban areas, where much is said about dense development. In this regard, the gardens are different. They take less space, and I'm going to reiterate once more that I have nothing against neither traditional cemetery nor gardening, it's probably they'll stay. The only thing is that the deceased get to feel this way and that the victims can respond to the wishes of the deceased. But speaking of convergence, you see it in many cities or towns abroad, where the cemetery plays a role. We often refer to cemeterys where some dead individuals rest in the past hundreds of years. It is actually a structure based, and then I wondered if it is not a structure that should be maintained. Then I mean that just as it may, like digging a dustcoat in a grave today, it's some peak, I don't remember if there's five or six that could go on top of it, there's nothing in my mind that it's just a family grave. He doesn't have to take much space, and a considerable amount of these vessels could be taken, whether they were buried or scattered ash, it would be such a place for the family to remember. So in the discussion of convergence, I think that a structure built in the cemetery could be very reasonable. In the media, things have been thrown out, and I've been drawn into all kinds of interviews and discussed these things, and people think of things: What about the distribution of ashes, e.g. on a football field, with your favorite football club? Of course, there are many areas in which we can go. Above all, it is about the willingness of the dead to rule within the bounds of wisdom and respect. I've been given advice that when we talk about this, people feel that it has become some kind of joke. But all the stories I've been getting are so heartbreaking and beautiful and personal that it is really, in fact, that in 2022 we are here and are still in position that laws that are very old and based on excessive old traditions are still trapped in that the individual's will cannot be controlled. I'm not going to extend the discussion any further. By this law I am suggesting that we should open this law in order that the wish of the dead may be determined. But I'd like to mention it, so direct them to those who are going to discuss this matter on the committee, that, of course, you can take it in some step if people feel that this is all too big and a big step. This report contains information on how these matters are being handled in our neighboring countries, the General Information Service, helped me get information on this. My assessment is that in the North countries, freedom is more than ours today, although there are clear rules around it. A respectable president. I hope that this case will be brought to pass, for there is no issue I have brought to my attention at a council that I have received as much comments as questions about, and most of all, just an encouragement on the importance of this matter being realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u145	A respectable president. I reimburse a proposal for a hearing about domestic violence information. The proposal was previously made at a Council of 150th and 151, but it was not granted them. There is a broad political controversies, and all of us can agree on the importance of taking strong hands around this vulnerable group and breaking up a specific cycle of terrors formed in these matters. We've been taking a big, decisive step toward improving police activities, and a significant court order has also been taken for the victims of domestic violence. Yet, the march is not over, and we have more steps to take. The fight is not over, and we are seeing too big numbers on the incidence of domestic violence. The last three months of 2021 C.E. were called 129 in Reykjavík alone. At the same time the previous year, 136 were. In 2021, a total of 590 police calls for domestic violence were made in Reykjavík. For this reason, in December 2021, 45.5% were called on by domestic violence. The response of the Minister of Justice to a petition by Ásgerður of K. Violence in Gylfadóttir C.E. shows that there is a large difference between the number of domestic violences registered in the prosecution's lawsuits between January 1, 2015 and January 3, 2018. It was then noted that the government's management and domestic violence protocols have been successful, cooperation with professionals has increased, and tolerability is a better service. The sufferers of domestic violence often hold back from reporting the violence to the police. In smaller rural areas where most people know one another, it may be equally difficult to report domestic violence. Therefore, it is important that governments who work closely with the inhabitants have broad authority to take the initiative to intervene and cooperate with other governments on how to react to such offenses. Although the government's regulations have ensured the cooperation of police with other governments, the cooperation must also be formalized in the other direction, i.e. with the announcements of social authorities, health authorities and educational institutions to the police and with their cooperation between other authorities. However, in order for such information to be effective, with the advantage of fracture tolerance guided, more pre-active legislation will be required to provide information. All agreements between institutions of society need to take place by participation and consenting to violations. However, when there is reason to believe that a child has witnessed domestic violence or has been tolerated, it must be ensured that involvement and consent are not thwarted by government intervention that is contrary to the child's interests. The need for rooming and better identification of child - care reporting governments is needed for child - protection authorities. The interests of a child must always come first. We have repeatedly confirmed this, including with the approval and induction of the United Nations Children's Covenant. Violence in a child's home is always involved, whether the child is affected or witnessed. The parents and guardians of a child are the primary examples of this, and they learn from them both conscious and unconscious. This comes with a lot of responsibility. Violence, threats, and threats are not the right way to cope with anger, hardship, or adversity. Children learn from parents and guardians how to cope with harassment. Family violence can have a lasting psychological impact on a child, and it is painful to know that children are living in such situations; we should not stop working against domestic violence. It's for the sake of all concerned. The objective of this procedure is to revise the current system with the objective of simplifying child protection authorities, social authorities, health authorities and educational authorities to communicate information between and the police. I have strong hopes that we will be able to end this matter at this spring council and set it in an acceptable position. We must establish a basis in our society for families and children to enjoy a safe environment without violence. They are to enjoy the fundamental rights of security free from violence, threatening in the place to be a holy place of refuge. We all deserve that fundamental right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, and he can say every word and thanks as quickly as possible. A senator and any members of the council who make this resolution. Of course, this is an extremely important and urgent matter. I just wanted to be curious about what. The senator's experience with the work being done, whichever. A senator has taken a look at it. Me. if this case has been submitted before, and I wondered about the work that has been going on with the Children's Protection Department and then, on the other hand, what I remember sitting in town for some time when we were working together between police and social services or child care so that it would be guaranteed that a Child Protector's representative was always present when the police were involved in such matters. The information I received from the project was that it would have been quite important, it added the charges in these matters, I recall the police talking about when the window was open, when people were ready to express themselves, so things often change quickly and only with extreme shame, and then those who have endured violence think it's all right and will not happen again. All the information I received from the police back then, and the child - welfare authorities on this project were that it would have been very effective. But now I have to admit that I don't know which kind of work has been going on in many parts of the country. In this case it was in Mosfellstown, and I know it was here in the capital area. I know why. A senator may be familiar with Selphoss and neighboring areas, whether there is more to this experience than in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer as well as the question. It is important, and there are many really good practices and good outsides on these matters and on the police relations with social authorities and child protection. The dissociative proposal is to promote it everywhere, so it's everywhere, not just by the way that there's a good partnership between social authorities and police in the relevant district. That we have the core around it, that it's the rules and that it's the law, that it's clear and there's no doubt about how we should react to such situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. For this answer, a senator accepts the importance of it when you have heard of interesting and good work that has been successful. The question is, are we distributing this knowledge elsewhere so that we are filming these systems? I see why. A member of the council so that this work should be done right on top of it. But in discussing these matters, I have often seen that those who work with children, maybe especially at play schools, elementary schools, and even at sports and leisure jobs, and who, of course, are law by law, apart from social responsibility, responsible for reporting such a fraction, these sources feel so often that it works so much that it doesn't work, it doesn't have any effect on the fact that it doesn't happen. I know, knowing a little bit about the system, that it's about personal protection, and when you've received a report, it's not that the person reporting is getting some information on the progress of things. Still, I have often wondered, " Is there any way, though, to assure people that the matter is in place and in good hands? ' Perhaps this is especially true because I have so often had this conversation with teachers who have been in this position, and sometimes because people think there's nothing going on. So I'm pointing into this job if it's not a bit of this too. It is so important that we believe and rely on the system, although it is so important that the nature of the matter should be closed and not be able to tell what is happening. But somehow they need to spread their faith and trust in the public that despite that, they are working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u149	A respectable president. Yes, indeed, we need to increase the confidence and confidence of all concerned in the system, and this is an incredibly important point into this discussion. I think it's important that we take it and take it. A senator is the head of the General and Education Committee, and I give high hopes that this case will also receive good and thorough treatment with this point under the treatment of the case by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u150	Madam President. I repeat, this is a 16th anniversary bill for the Iceland's European Peace Prohibition for Nuclear Weapons and the Prohibition of Nuclear Devices. It is important for Iceland to have initiatives on disarmament and the peace of nuclear weapons within its jurisdiction to the sky and sea, thereby binding on the laws of the declared government's wishes that Iceland has no role in the development, storage, or transport of nuclear weapons, and thus contributing to a peaceful world. Warfare and stronghold are developing all over the world. In many places, the nations are adding to their nuclear devices rather than destroying them. This is true in sensitive parts of the world as well as in the Western world. The nuclear powers of the United States and Russia each have more nuclear weapons than the world combined in religion with international commitments not to distribute nuclear weapons and their general disarmament, such as the NPT Convention. Yet, the development of peace issues has been more positive in recent decades. Most countries recognize the threat of mass destruction and reject the ancient theory of mutual terror. Yet, history tells us that military action can develop at an alarming rate and with dire consequences. It is interesting to go to the North Circle to find a country that has not yet signed a peace description for nuclear weapons. In all, there are five multinational covenants to ban nuclear power. Our South Hemisphere is more and less peaceful, and peace reports are still being worked, these past few years, on the Central East's peaceful declaration of nuclear weapons. The North countries have not been able to declare nuclear weapons that will be strange in view of the situation and texture that the North countries have in the international community. It is therefore a great deal of work with the declaration of peace and initiative of Iceland that the disarmament and peace of nuclear weapons, both for land and for nation, but especially for the north, each nuclear power is looking for Arctic transport. The number of major cities and rural communities around the world is declared peace - keeping for nuclear traffic. In the United States, most rural societies have sent out a declaration that the land will be peaceful from the nuclear weapons and their traffic. It's only a Smokeytown, a Skull-Appet, and a Grimnes and Graffjords that don't have peace with nuclear weapons. There is no basis, then, for a large majority of the community's plans for peace to be legalized for the whole country. The review of Iceland's nuclear peace statements has shown that the bill violates the United Nations Sea Treaty. It is worth saying that the international commitments of Iceland, which turn to seafood, will ensure emergency assistance of ships within Iceland's jurisdiction. It's a 10th suit. The bill, but the article deals with replacements on the basis of international rights and authority to assist ships in distress. In Iceland, there is an armyless people who have built their foreign policy on peace and humanity. That's where we've been at VG. As we have seen, I believe this case, which is recommended for the 16th time, would be very successful for international peace, for Iceland, and for world peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-20-25.u151	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That important bill, which I am, in fact, one of the partners, has been given to Jódís Skúladóttir for the transmission of nuclear weapons and banned from the traffic of nuclear - powered vehicles. I'm very proud to be one of a very handsome party of senators who over the years have been able to contribute this good and important matter. As shown in the case of what? This is a 16th anniversary of a senator's efforts. It is quite amazing that we still have to stand here and recommend this bill, for when Iceland's national security policy was adopted in this hall uncontaminated agreement, it was stated in one article that Iceland and Icelandic land may be emancipated for nuclear weapons taking into account international commitments to promote disarmament and peace with Iceland on the part. In fact, this case should be completed and long since a government is part of national security policy. But since I'm not, I'm just saying, "No problem, we're here to recommend this bill, and now it's a good thing to agree. Nuclear and nuclear disarmament are among the big issues that we should place far more focus on because the nuclear threat is so massive. Only one bomb is needed to destroy the earth, as we know. Really, there is only one mistake. Most of us have heard of the terror that resulted when nuclear weapons were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Each year a large group of people gathered here in Reykjavík, near Tirina, to remember the victims, but it is estimated that 200,000 people died at once when these bombs were dropped. What has happened since then is that the bombs have become more powerful, have increased, and thus have increased the destructive power, counting many times as many as in bombs, and the power of each bomb. Sadly, the number of nuclear powers has increased, although in the last few years, they have not increased. Of course, today's nuclear powers, which must include many of our major cohesion countries, for example, in NATO, have been renewing their nuclear weapons and destroying their remarkable sums. It is also important to remind you that the unfortunately responsible military alliance, NATO, sets aside the right to use nuclear weapons in the first place. That's what this is all about. I'm putting this out because, unfortunately, there are too many countries who still have a vision of nuclear weapons being okay, that it's okay that they're part of an armed nation. Therefore, it is important that we who recognize the threat that the importance of our nuclear weapons will never be used will use all available measures to describe our opposition to our weapons. The peace - declaring of their land and its jurisdiction for nuclear weapons is part of it. Although the use of nuclear weapons has been very negative in recent years, good things have also happened. For example, it may be noted that nuclear weapons have been banned in the United Nations and that, in fact, the one presented here has suggested to hide the government into Iceland's signing and validating the agreement to ban nuclear weapons. This agreement was adopted at the United Nations Conference in New York, July 7, 2017, and went into effect on January 22, 2001, showing again what it is really strange that there is a need to measure the need for peace to declare nuclear weapons to Iceland. The United Nations has established a contract that forbids nuclear weapons. The last time I looked it up, it was actually before Christmas, then 86 countries of the world had signed the contract, and 56 states had walked all the way to legalize it, and I suspect, and I hope that more countries have joined us since then. It is interesting that only countries that themselves do not have nuclear weapons to employ those who have signed the contract, but there is no reason to despair, for this is exactly the kind of pressure that other weapons of mass destruction have been banned. This is because governments that have not had the right to form biological weapons have made agreements to forbid such weapons. In time, there will be a meeting among the states who have decided to join them in the agreement to ban nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, Iceland will not be found there, but we are invited to participate even if we are not party to the deal. I know that countries like Sweden are going to participate as well as the NATO Germany. Happily, there is a gradual awakening to the fact that nuclear weapons have no place to thrive and that they involve an enormous waste. Today, we can only mention how good it would be if we had the money available for health - control purposes, for the manufacture and distribution of vaccines in all nations to cope with the social consequences and poverty of the epidemic. If we had that money, although only part of the money that goes on developing and maintaining nuclear weapons, the world would be pretty much better off. The same is true if this money is placed in the environment. I just think that if we were to divide it evenly and half of the budget would be to combat climate and other health and social opportunities, we would have a completely different world. I'm gonna be optimistic. Since people and idealists for the improved world must be optimistic, so I intend to be optimistic about the United States who become members of a contract to ban nuclear weapons and that Iceland will be among them and that we accept this bill we are discussing, on Iceland's peaceful declaration of nuclear weapons, and on the control of nuclear vehicles, and so narrow to those nations that have such weapons that they can control so long as to eliminate nuclear weapons. To say that, I hope that the case will have good but quick treatment. The Foreign Affairs Committee, for as I said before, such a peaceful relationship is part of an approved national security policy. So just get it over with to legalize the peace light and then continue on the way to eviction nuclear weapons, not just in Iceland, but all over the world.
