ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u1	I want to draw attention to what. The general council members believe that the President of the Norwegian Council, Gharahkhani Masud, is at the council. With him, there are others. Councilmen Morten Wold and Kathy Lie. The President of the Norwegian Council is here visiting the General Assembly Hall, in connection with a public visit to Iceland, at the invitation of the President of the Generals. I would like to welcome the President of the Norwegian Council, Gharahkhani Masud, and the emissary to the General Assembly Hall and I expect their visit to Iceland to further strengthen the fine ties between the states. The General Assembly of Presidents of the Norwegian Parliament and the Norwegian nation is friendly and respectful, and I would like to pray. All the councilmen, that they should answer my words, that they should stand up from their seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u2	The president announced at the beginning of the previous conference of human changes on a committee so that Oddný Harðardóttir would take his place as a substitute instead of Helga Vala Helgadóttir on a professional committee. That was mistaken, and the change is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u3	A respectable president. It was surprising that just before noon, the president of Allallis spoke up. 4 of the program, the right of patients, but it is a very important matter that needs careful discussion here in the conference hall. It wasn't identifying any spaces at the highest. Health Minister on this matter yesterday, and that's why I'd like to ask the highest degree. President: What causes this matter, which yesterday was said to have to be carefully discussed here at the General Assembly, is suddenly, on a few minutes' notice, taken off the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u4	The president would like to suggest that he decided to take this matter off the program in consultation with the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. As to the continuation of the case, the president cannot comment now beyond the fact that the matter will not be on schedule today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u5	Mr. President. Yesterday we discussed the rights of patients who had been written and placed twice before the council without having been discussed with patients. It was only discussed with the hospital and the surgeon of the country, the people who were to apply the pressure on the patients, and not to the people who protect the rights of the people who are under compulsion. This lack of communication, this violation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, is something that did not seem to interfere with a minister yesterday. But, yes, I hope he's in trouble. But, Mr. President, we are required to know whether the Minister will beat his head against the stone and try to continue to measure matters best at home in the Ministry of Recycling, or whether he will simply pull it back and bring it back in a different form, as the head of Psychohelp called after yesterday, the head of the League, who was betrayed for consultation promised by the former health minister in December over a year ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u6	Mr. President. Now I have to disagree a little bit with the two of them. People who came up here before me, and of course they're more inclined to disagree. Helga Vala Helgadóttir because I sensed that tone yesterday to the highest degree. A health minister would have, in effect, realized that it was a precipice for him to handle the case; he would have realized that he did not necessarily have to do it exactly as the former Supreme Court did. Rather, he should have taken advantage of the opportunity to speak to those most concerned, who are themselves and their stakeholders. So this time I'm going to give myself the highest compliments. Minister and encourage him not to bring the matter up until he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u7	President. This case is about our senators' preparation for the council work here at the Hall of Congress. This case was scheduled yesterday, and there were a lot of people on the rosary and prepared for today's discussion. I'm happy, of course, if what's behind it, then the minister is taking it back and doing it better. But we don't get that answer clear here. It is very unfortunate that the matter should be removed from the council program just in half an hour, an hour in advance. This is what you expected to talk about today. It's classic this way the council operates, always in this unsubstantiated process. We are always being confronted with some kind of change back and forth, which makes everything we do is just a response rather than a preparation. [[The president calls.]] It's not professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u8	That's why the President wants to guess, for word's sake. The senator, who is scheduled for the council today, is 21 on the program and should not be a problem to discuss even if one falls out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u9	A respectable president. I have no doubt that if that is the case, it would be possible for members of Congress to keep up with the material all day and until late evening. However, I must add surprise to the fact that this matter has been taken on the program and perhaps even more surprised after listening to the chairman of the Psychological Fund on the news on TV last night, claiming that there was no consultation with mental - health professional. I think it's very special that it hasn't been done. This has to do with serious intervention in people's lives in this way, self-involved, and therefore I thought, and probably many more, that it would be normal to consult with as many people as possible, not just those who have to work as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u10	A respectable president. Nothing about us without us - these are the mottos of a partner in Iceland's Institute of Environment. And I hope it's the best thing to do when this issue is resolved. I sincerely hope that a health minister will now have a conversation with those who are concerned and intend to learn from experience, to talk with people, and to keep them in mind, not to try to put something into the throat, as was done by a disability evaluation, and other matters. It is best to talk, to agree, and especially about the people involved. Here we are talking about sensitive groups who have the right to discuss their affairs and participate in setting up a bill so that the laws and rights of these people are respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u11	Mr. President. I'm going to do a U-turn in this discussion, but I'm still dealing with health and the current and potential musculoskeletal problems in this room. After my first day at the General Assembly, I wondered if I should come over and discuss this morning, but I decided I'd let it go. This is where we're sitting, and I've sometimes wondered why the hall is half empty when you watch a meeting at the General Assembly. But then I discovered that at least part of the problem could be that there are probably original chairs from the time the Council was built, which are broken and cannot be repaired. And here we celebrate the variety, we're all of the different sizes and types. So I strongly recommend that we make our work easier and make it possible for us to sit in a chamber longer without having to pull us off because of pain and otherwise, that the chairs be replaced by decent chairs. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u12	A respectable president. It is quite clear that the Ministers should normally respond to queries for written answer within 15 active days. Ever since I sat down at the council, I've asked 12 questions. Most were submitted several weeks or months ago. I have received an answer to three of them, and most of them are just questions about the current subject or concerns either directly or indirectly, which are discussed here at the General Assembly. That exactly restrains our work, I mean, this delay is not respected. I would like to encourage the President of the Generals to press on to the Minister of the Government that queries are answered within the legal postponement as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u13	Mr. President. I'll be happy if it's the best. The health minister has taken this bill and will review it because it was the highest term for patients, and it is so surprising that they have been given the patient's rights, which is more about staff rights. What I hope to improve is that the case will be taken back and reviewed by the eyes of users and those who will be forced. Surely there is no more intervention in people's lives than to force them to do daily activities, to take medication, and lock them in a room. The lack of contact with users is natural to shame. But hopefully this is the light in the darkness, that it should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u14	Mr. President. It is one thing that governments do not agree with patients' stakeholders when it is intended to establish how fundamental rights are taken from patients. We've talked about it without speaking, talking about it yesterday about two hours. But inconsistencies with the President is something that I'm also concerned about in this case, that the President has information from a minister, that a minister wants the matter to be taken out of the program, but is unable to comment more on the outcome of the case. It's important, e.g. for the Parliamentary work, whether this bill should continue at 1st. Unimproved or whether the minister is doing the right thing, taking the case in a building, and doing it better. This case cannot be treated as it is at 1 Corinthians 3: 1. today. Surely that must be true for each one of us. I'm sorry, but I don't think the President has received any further information from the Minister on this. [[The president calls.]] But here we are, in any case, highly sought after. We may be able to get one of them to tell us what the plan is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u15	President. My favorite thing about asking is to inform the U.S. Congress that the average time of the week for an active day is 25 days, not 15 days, the rest of this council. There's the worst environmental, energy and climate minister with 31 active days, and financial and economic ministers as well as 31 days of response and best practice for the minister of culture and commerce, Food Ministers and Education and Children's Ministers. This is the best - working ministry that has around 20 days, just hardly 17, 18, 19 days of replying time, so better still, since neither will be below the maximum of 15 days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u16	A respectable president. Actually, we need to know if it's the highest. The president made the decision on his own to take the case off the program or, if this was done at the highest request. Minister. V.E.G. The president, who is older than two times in this House, has worked here longer than many people sitting here and knows that this can affect the activities of the council today, on the council today. We need to determine whether or not the ultimate. Ministers have made a decision to cancel a case for forced and forced patient activity or whether it is some kind of economic advantage, taking the initiative of a president for other councils to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u17	The president wishes to assume that this decision was made by the president to agree with the Supreme Court. Minister after their conversations on the situation. In other respects, the president does not want to comment on the highest position. A minister who comes to the house later. However, this change should, in the opinion of the president, be to pay for today's Congress work, but the subsequent changes will likely take place in further discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u18	V.E.G. President. I was gonna come up here because my party sister, okay? paritaprevir Ágústa, daughter of Ágústsdóttir, began talking about equipment and chairs. I was a vice - council member of 2013-2016, and then I was a senator from 20171⁄2021 until the meantime, from the time I was a deputy and there I became a member of Congress, the speaker was changed. I used to be able to raise it up here and read what I had written in talks. Then it was adjusted so that the disabled could come up here and give talks, and that reduced the skirt. I am both big and sharp - sighted, and I don't see what it says unless it's very large. I'm sure these chairs, which may not be since 1881, can be fixed and taken into consideration because the platform fits for every size and size as well as for those who cannot see. Other than that, it's really fun to be here, and yesterday it was as if I were watching a follow-up on the Book of Versailles, when we talked about fishing costs. It's nice to be back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u19	Mr. President. I would like to agree with those who have come up here and comment on the fact that the matter is taken off without explanation. When discussing this matter last night, I answered only questions and had prepared a talk for today. This is a serious matter, it is a big matter, and in many respects I rejoice that it has been canceled. It would be inconceivable to have it confirmed if anyone knows the outcome of the case, to simply retract it. The case is not worked properly, as we have noted, since it has not been consulted with a person who has been promised a consultation. I hope that's the end of it. But it would certainly be bad if they suddenly fell on a schedule in the same picture without really knowing it. It's just common courtesy and respect for the council to inform us about the situation, and I'd like that if someone in the room knows the situation as it is, it would be good to get some more information.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u20	The president continues to say that with the issue being canceled today, at least more time to discuss its continuation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u21	President. Guð does not exist. There is no supernatural creature who listens to prayers or organizes some form of punishment or reward after death based on the way people think or behave on this earth. It is very easy to understand why we think there is some such being that created the heavens and the earth from nothing or from a body of ýmis or something, for for for thousands of years the human being did not have the capacity to verify the ideas of the world and all the different stories that people made about how the world worked. Clearly, what follows people's belief in how the world came into existence is evident. It is quite simple, then, to misuse that religion in order to create a system of government. In order to atone for this god or for another, prayers, gifts, or sacrifices, otherwise you will be reborn as inferior life in your next life, a plague, or you will be tormented forever in hell. I've come to realize that if I say those simple words, God doesn't exist, people don't think they're gonna believe that somehow they're gonna belittle their opinions. I'm impressed because at the same time, people seem less offended if someone is another religious viewpoint. They only believe in another god. It is somehow less insulting, perhaps because they are trapped in the same competition, to bet that some supernatural person would fit the afterlife, and the competition is all about who's betting on the right supernatural being, of course, only if it's a monotheism. If there can be more supernatural beings that all have their heavenly Kingdom and hell, then, of course, it's just a competitive market for who's best for you, and then it's quite free to have a different opinion of it than you, except for all the wars and disasters, and worse. But that God does not exist is offensive. Isn't that remarkable?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u22	A respectable president. A seminar under the heading Elimination from schools is now beginning, a form of inconsistencies? The Department of Education and Children's Department of Education and Social Affairs and Employment Services is up front of the seminar. It will include a new report on elimination from Icelandic high school. It aims to map factors that predict elimination and schooling. The results indicate that elimination is exactly an equal manifestation of non-inferiority in Icelandic society. Elimination from a different angle of view is discussed; rather than focusing on the student himself when removed from the study, the focus is on a social and economic background. It turns out that there are two main factors: parental education and the total income of the family. This says that although elimination is taking place in high school, a better approach is to be made by study support in elementary schools and extra-school interventions. The report offers suggestions for improvement, including some of the following: the importance of the co-primary and high school supportive measures and the increased awareness and responsibilities of primary school elimination after the end of elementary school. I'd like to take my heart to these tips and the importance of creating the schools a basis to monitor the progress of students and to intervene earlier with support. In schools, both elementary and high school, there is knowledge of ways to support these students. It is important that governments pay attention to existing tasks and support the implementation of the general use of the most successful ways. Knowledge, vision, and leadership of the government in dealing with deduction are essential and by the diagnostic work and the seminary are taking an important step in this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u23	Mr. President. Once I was small, but as the years grew, it was increasingly surprising to me why seated governments would never have emphasized the plan B for an Icelandic nation on an active volcano island in the North Atlantic, whether by natural disasters or by war state; an island full of natural resources on land as well as in sea. Today, the power exchange is at the front end, where electric cars and windmills are glorified as the only thing that can save us from ruin. It is essential to make use of our domestic energy so that we can become as sustainable as possible. It should be the duty of every nation. However, it shows poor, narrow - minded thinking when all the eggs are placed in the same basket. According to the World Energy Agency, the demand for rare geologic languages will be fourfold worldwide by the year 2040. No industry is as polluted to the environment as a mining industry. Then you can point your tail. Today, some 32,000 people worldwide are poisoned by giant lakes or lagoons, which is the result of what we include. It's called green energy exchange. Because of demand, such requirements will never be met by the world's mines, which is why companies such as e.g. Deep Green and UK Seabed Resources long began to explore the possibility of using the seabed for mining. It is ironic to think that at the COP26 conference in Glasgow, some 100 nations signed a contract dealing with the deforestation of rain forests. At the same time, though, these same nations are actually working to destroy them because of their energy exchanges. We rich people in the north are active participants in demolitions of countries and terrors at the lives of people in the south just to attract us as the white knights of the green energy revolution, as is the case with a special Olympic. There, the superficial feeling of self - control is evident at the expense of the infrastructure. The energy exchange will never solve the world's climate problems. However, they will make us much more dependent countries, such as China, one way or another, that have some 80% of the world's mines done on rare minerals. [[The president calls.]] The government is poor, and purpose is lost, and lacks reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u24	A respectable president. Lately, the discussion has given rise to the fact that we are living in a situation of economic hope. As a result of the economic impact of Russian government war in Ukraine, the growing U.S. Federal Bank changes due to Covid, inflation, and instability. Yet, it is after the financial breakdown that we have experienced and followed the pandemic to the home position that is good when we consider a debt to loan agencies, although it is true that the situation of people in that respect is indiscriminate. It contains their propaganda, e.g. The need for housing needs to be placed in the foreground, as the prime minister has repeatedly said. However, the position of householders is better now than it was five, seven, and ten years ago, according to preliminary biographies research by Iceland's Haust Office. Then there is the joy that unemployment is rapidly decreasing, and shallow work - such as tourism - is slow and low on the way of regaining power. There is an increase in domestic maps, more than 17% per year in terms of variable prices, and an increase in the current of tourists with a beneficial impact on trades and trades within the country. Of course, the Council of State has close attention to the development of matters. If we need to take action for the sake of inflation or forgery, we will approach it, as we have reached other challenges in recent years, bearing in mind that such measures are primarily to be carried out to those mentioned among the hands. It is important that the state support of the ratio in the right places, not necessarily up the entire level of income. More important, any action that is being taken will support the government's other objective. In this regard, there are flat reductions in products such as fuels that support e.g. not at government climate targets and, to a greater extent, to those in the upper law of income. No, President. It is important that action is on social grounds and includes people where they really are important. Optimism is just as compatible with the economic debate as it is with the fact that we now seem to be on the move in spite of everything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u25	A respectable president. What a privilege it is to give my virgin speech here at the Council today. Indeed, the situation in the world can be said to be against us. Because of Russia's military campaign against Ukraine, the Atlantic Union has taken appropriate measures, the speed of response has been increased, and the protection of measures has been strengthened. The situation that has already arrived will likely result in an increased awareness of the Community in this country. It is important that Iceland and I fulfill our commitment to our alliance in line with national security policy and that we trust Iceland's defenses. Although it has been a long discussion to transport the National Guard to the Southnes, in view of the role of Quality, I feel that it is important to go further and move the activities of the overall guest. Changes are being made to the Njarvegro, which will greatly improve the situation and ensure permanent facilities. Smokeytown's main site of service is short. The airport is open 24 hours a day, and the possibility of building is obvious. International drills performed in the region have shown that the position in the security area plays a key role, whether in location, service personnel, access to fuel, technology. It is important to look for the future needs of saving and take into account the increase in size, both search and rescue, but notably the safety and protection issues. A respectable president. By the transport of the Landland Guard to the town of Rhine, the State would show its support for the construction of employment on Southnes in action, as well as further support of the Mobility Guard for the benefit of seafarers, patients, and all the people of the country. It is necessary to ensure a potent response and by integration as such I believe it will be achieved. I'm the highest. Minister of Justice to make the decision to move the Agency to the Southnes and to put it in full priority in cooperation with the management and staff of the Marine Corps, our flagship in security and protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u26	A respectable president. What I would like to do is that my subject here today is the serious situation in many areas of development and the status of different areas and rural communities in terms of competitiveness and status compared to other areas and other rural areas. We must not lose sight of our work here at the National Parliament. The area I especially want to discuss here today is part of the Northwestern District or the region that covers the Valley, Coast, and Hunsar. This area is jointly dependent on agriculture, for it is one of the largest agricultural areas in the country. We have here at the General Assembly talked about the position of agriculture in Iceland and the more serious situation in which we live, and particularly in sheep farms, while a large proportion of farm farms in this area are sheep farms. Clearly, then, the evolution that we are seeing is drawing up in front of us as it comes to an increase in resources, such as creams, will have a very burdensome effect on this area. The population development in the region has been below the geologic average in recent years, and although in recent years there has been an increase, there is no apparent increase in the number of people elsewhere. In all, nearly 100 people from the area moved beyond those of the move back in 2012,2019. That's more than 1% of the local population. Economic growth is also below the national average, allowing for economic growth in the Northern West to be typically less than 2.5% in the same period, with about 2% below interest in other parts of the country. It is clear that action is needed in this area if we are to be able to reverse the developments described above. It is necessary in my opinion that the government will be involved in this project before it will simply be too late, with specific action in the rural areas where the local countries and rural areas are taking coordinated measures to improve the local population and sector. [[The president calls.]] It is vital that all the land be inhabited and secure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u27	A respectable president. A few days ago, there was a refreshing discussion about housing and the capital area, interesting in many respects. It was inspired by members of the United States Congress. They came here one by one and talked about numbers and lands to show that everything was going well in the capital. However, the fact is that Reykjavík is losing its population year after year. At one time, about 40% of the population had a smoke trip, but after several years of power in the R-list, the ratio started to decrease and has continued to decline year by year. Last week, I was thinking, "What?" paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir says that the smokers were just over a third of the nation. The fact is, over the last 20 years, the population has increased by 30%, but the city of Smoke is only about 19%. At the same time, there has been an increase of more than 60% in the Kopavogians, about 80% in the parks and 50% in the Mediterranean. Mosfellstown has doubled in population, 100% increase. Smokeytown and A year - olds have grown by 80%, each of them by 50%, Ak Aranes and Elfus by 40%. Worldwide around the capital, the population has increased beyond the national average. In any case, unlike what happens in Reykjavík, where the Volga settlements were obliged to cultivate berries against their will, rural communities have the opportunity to meet inexpensive apartments and apartments, to own and cultivate them. We know what to do. The members of Kristrún Frostadóttir and Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, the crown princess, and the side of the Conspiracy, thank you for drawing the council's attention to the deteriorating position of the capital. This will be most useful in the discussion of the future of Reykjavík in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u28	For example, when it comes to others, the president exhorts members of the Parliament to watch their words. Councilmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u29	Mr. President. The news these days is coming back to us about war in Europe. That will cause our mind to wander to the system we have to deal with the offenses that will take place under these circumstances. It's something we're always developing and molding and trying to do better. One such factor is the International Court of Justice in Hague, where crime is thought to be a threat to world peace, security, and well - being. These are the major crimes of crime; massacres, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and crimes against peace. It has long been called upon to expand the legal office so that the crime will be recognized as one of the offenses that can be visited by the court. The question is, What measures can the public take when a call for action is immediately not made by governments? Who will protect Mother Earth from the unregulated greed of big corporations who want to use all resources and other natural quality? It is necessary to ensure those who take up the fight for these common interests of all our opportunities to approach courts in that regard. On Sunday, there is a European day for the recognition of enforcation. I'll do two things for the Council to remember that day. We will conduct a seminar at Kjarval Stations, actually the following day, on Monday, next week, where we will have foreign experts to review these matters with us, and we will submit a synopsis proposal that the Icelandic government approves of economism. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I encourage all members of the council to look into their mailboxes and see that proposal and become business partners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u30	A respectable president. Social security bills are reduced by 45% of the income of senior citizens over 25,000 dollars. per month. In addition, such taxes are taxed, allowing for a total decrease of more than 70%. The Pension Fund is owned by those who paid for it, not by state, and by no means owned by professionals. In all the negotiations I've been taking part in, the pay of a professional worker was always viewed as a salary. If money from public insurance and payments from the general pension fund add up, they rarely reach more than 300,000 dollars. per month. When it became clear that there was no correction in the cruel breakdown of pension in the laws set up in 2017, the gray army decided to sue the government's insurance agency and the Icelandic State, which even built. of the 72nd chapter of the European Court of Human Rights The constitution. The case was lost in the district judgment of December 22nd. Injuring them, the gray army will damage them after appealing straight to the Supreme Court. The court granted that request because of the importance of the case and recommended that the matter be resolved quickly. If the situation is lost there, we will send the case to the European Court of Human Rights, for the fight is not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u31	A respectable president. Recently, I was receiving the reply of a minister of illegally ill-inhabited habitats in the sensibilities system and the micropower system, social security. An agent's conclusion was that it was not clear that it would be better to calculate the future period of disability in the same proportion as microenergy pension when pensioners did not use similar combustions from another EEA. This case took place in part 2016 before the courts, almost eight years ago. The state's lost the case on the district. What, then, did the Kingdom do? Did it come to the conclusion? No, it appealed to the National Court. That's where the 2020 was lost. Will the Kingdom accept that conclusion? No. The state appealed to the Supreme Court. But what are we talking about? Yes, we're talking about the most peripheralized in Icelandic society, the one I call the enemy of the Government number one, people who get 10% less than the lowest pensions and you can't live on the lowest pension. And was that enough? No, not this government. She also put a new law on a penny in front of a cent on this group. Is that good? No, they go to judicial hearings with this group that can hardly protect themselves and hardly have a knife and spoon. It is time for the government to give up on human rights and justice and to risk this war against the worst and poorest people in Iceland, people they have peripheralized themselves, and they have an obligation to make sure once and for all that these people, just as everyone else in this country, can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u32	Mr. President. Violence has been rampant during the discussion, and now I want to talk about violent young people. It was not so long ago on the news that a knife puncture in the downtown city of Reykjavík and that it had been used to attack children at a elementary school in the capital area. Some may wonder: " It's always been this way. There is no change in the violent behavior of young people in Iceland. The fact is, however, that there is a change. Children walk, e.g. to a far greater measure of knives. In the last nine years, violent crime has increased by 63%. In 2012, 71 children were suspected of a serious crime, but last year there were 170 children. There is a 140% increase in children suspected of being severely violent. The number of fractures has also increased, from 78 fragments to 219 fractures in the last nine years. There is an increase of 180% in violent crime in children. Violence is growing in Iceland, and there's nothing to do about it. In 2020, 90 children 17 years of age and younger had police record. The defendant, what does it mean for a child to have a criminal record? What is being accomplished by records of children? What happens? Children Quit Breaking Laws? No, not to see how many are suspected of being violent, and considering the fact that the fracture rate is far higher than those suspected of being broken. Children who have a record often feel that they have failed their families. They often feel the same way about their lack of hope because of their 17 - year - old criminal record. What message are we as a community sending a child when it is formally signed - whatever, as a criminal? When children think about the future, they are not often thinking, " What will be in five years? ' Children live their lives, so it doesn't matter what they do next, since they've already ruined their lives by having a criminal record anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u33	V.E.G. President. The government has three political parties, three vastly different categories. At the same time, the basic policy of these board of directors is very different. During the campaign, these groups had a wide range of campaign promises. We heard a promise from these groups to reduce taxes, increase tax steps, increase in hunting fees, build 600 new apartments a year, bridge gaps between maternity and nursery, improve the rate of older citizens, double the sector's market, reevaluate birth strength, and so on. These are all the promises made to voters in six months ago. There can be no mention of this detailed campaign code in the government covenant. The political body of 600 pages. A document that's hairy and vague in all sorts of languages. Government officials have done little about working with the promises made recently. So I wonder how voters can trust that promises made in a campaign are not betrayed. How can voters trust that the groups they choose and end up in the government will enforce their votes? The dressers are required to make a requirement that the classes they choose fulfill a promise. During the last term, the government sailed through calm seawater, where no macropolitic promises were fulfilled and the virus is largely responsible for problems now on the decline. Where are the political promises? And why can the government groups not fulfill a promise that has been made so long ago that they promised? Clearly, those listed at the Ministerial Tables will not do anything in keeping promises. [[The president calls.]] What do these voters say other than that these three groups promise one thing but say another when it comes to the government board?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u34	A respectable president. Not an animal of politics and fear propaganda, not a tip-off, not a program. This is part of the debate over the last few days, when spontaneous and timely discussions begin to take part in Iceland's European cooperation in the light of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It all sounds familiar. The matter is not on the agenda - as if individual ministers or members of the board are the chairman of the Icelandic Republic, as if they were given the authority to give the nation the subject and information to make informed decisions. But there is no government power. The country has put Europe's safety and protection issues first and forward. Ukraine has established this issue, another neighboring Russian country has also done so, Danir made it refreshing, also Finnar and Sweden, and the European Union has also done so as an institution. We are to discuss a major matter of material importance. It is for us to deepen our discussion, continue to use it, develop a subject, and deal with it with logic. We don't have to agree, we can even argue, but refusing to discuss a matter, not saying it over time, is inexpensive speech, and is direct surrender to challenging assignments. Why, though, do people want to take part in the program? The reason is found in the 2013 General elections. Six members of the council who later became ministers made it clear to them that they would contribute to the national pay for continued discussions with the EU. Six senators who became ministers after the election betrayed it. Instead of a vote, they sent a sneak letter to Brussels, without a discussion at the council, and the concept of political impossibles was born without obvious pregnancy. Political impossibles that adhere to wording over the betrayal of election promises. And the promises were clear, with president's permission: ▪ Of course, the Independence Party will be able to decide whether or not the people will go further on this matter. It is the nation, but not the individual political body, and it is the nation, not the individual states of the world. The reason why this matter should not be discussed is too simply that certain politicians are afraid to praise something they do not intend to fulfill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is best answered in the words of the Independence Party: It is the nation, not by individual politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u35	A respectable president. Lately, reports of a Viking sandfjord have been published in the Valley of Moriscos, which has to do with depravity across the country. The reason is the high tide of the sea, which continues to break the green land between the shoreline and the inhabited earth that can capture the sand before entering the village. In recent years, tens of thousands of feet of land have been lost in this way, and the beach table is moving closer and closer to the ground. The parks built by the Road have slowed down this trend west of the Viking River, the east of which is closer to the settlement. The building of the dikes has meant that large sand areas will be temporary in their shelter. From these areas, the sand flies over the village, but land transplants and rural society have tried to protect the settlement for decades. The problem is unstable distances and the lack of vegetation to protect and catch the sand. A respectable president. It is bad when a Viking village is threatened by a constant fragment of land and sea and sand. The time has now come for further action to be taken and for the lives and possessions of the endangered Vikings. East Viking rivers need to be added to the sea's waters by means of new, powerful seafronts and a link to sand dunes and demolition. The farm society, the Roadmaker, and the land transplant have worked on possible solutions. A respectable president. The government must use funding measures that are sufficient to protect the village in cooperation with the above - mentioned bodies. No urban population in Iceland lives with others as stable in nature as Viðar Valley at the present time. It is the duty of the council to ensure the safety of the inhabitants and the northern coasts of the Moriscos.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u36	A respectable president. I'm going to be in the same direction. For a long time, there have been ideas of improving hospital transportation in the South. Following a demand for rural partners, stakeholders, and reports, which required the use of and need of intelligence, the plan was to perform a research project with medical transportation. Unfortunately, financial support has not yet been reached, so the inhabitants of the Southland live in the same state of emergency transport. The southern region is distributed, covering more than 31,000 km2, and it is not merely that the population of South Africa continues to increase but that the majority of the foreign tourists coming in through the region. In addition, there are about 60% of the country's summer homes in the 15th country. The extensive structure in the region has increased the pressures of public infrastructure and does not matter whether it refers to health care or other emergency services, such as emergency transportation and law enforcement. The activities of these individuals are linked, such as by accidents. Sadly, disasters have regularly surfaced in the area where these partners are able to maintain a different service. According to health care laws, all the people of the country are to have the opportunity of providing the most suitable health care care. However, despite the increase in the attention of a specialised group in the South countries, the area of Reykjavík is being made up of larger and more complex matters. I would like to challenge the health - care minister to make sure that the Southlands and our guests can be confident that they will be able to act quickly and safely when patients must be brought to the medical facility by ensuring financial support so that tests for a hospital helicopter would be completed in the South.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u37	Mr. President. I've never seen it happen... that the President of the Allellium reminds me of it. A candidate after his first talk, a virgin talk, here on a talk. It happened when it happened. paritaprevir A Friðjón son of Friðjónsson, embittered by the well - being of the part in Reykjavík, took up a conversation that took place earlier this week and named Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson and Kristrún Frostadóttir. But I don't keep silent because the president had his ears shut and he responded. He admonished the senator not to call off other members of the council. However, what the president would have had to do, of course, is to teach the new vice - general the politeness not to have a word with distant senators who cannot add to the rosary, as the case is at the council. There we have customs and habits, and there's something I hope to do the highest. A president makes it clear to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u38	The president wants to know that he's right next to you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's report suggests that members of the Parliament do not call for answers, nor do they agree that individual members of the council here, where members of the Parliament are not able to improve their skills on the rosary. In the matter of reminding men to keep their words, however, it is the ongoing task of a president to deal with the heat of a heat storm here in the Senate symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u39	Mr. President. I just wanted to agree with what was said here. We're having a variety of discussions here at the council, we're discussing legal matters here, and then the talks are offered or added to themselves on the rosary. In the President's conference board, you can make any noise. This is not the case at the end of the Senate, nor can there be any further improvement on the subsequent studies or objections to people who come up here and talk. I was shocked when I heard a talk coming out of my mouth. A senator earlier, who offered a place to speak with other members of the council, where they cannot carry their hand in front of their heads or give an answer to the senator in another way. In fact, I have never been told that this is inappropriate or wrong, but I feel that it is not normal to criticize people who cannot answer them. So I just want to agree with it. þm. Andrés Ingi Jonsson was saying here. He may be just curious about the role of the president in this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u40	The president tries to react when the president finds it hard to keep the traditions and habits of the council. But, hey. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir to address the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u41	A respectable president. I was not present when the one - sided exchange took place here. Now it just so happens. A senator who made those comments about me and my fellow soldier. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson is also running for office in Reykjavík. I don't know if a member of this body intends to continue a certain form of communication that may have occurred at the mayor's Party, but that's not how we have relations here at the council. We're trying to be objective. Of course, some things can be handled. The figures that were taken completely out of context were referred to here but were very relevant to the discussion here. This is not the first time I have been involved in political activity like this - what to say? - An expression by members of the tribe. A senator, though most of the members of the Independence Party, has always spoken well to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u42	A respectable president. No one is missing that local elections are ahead. The candidates are one after the other stepping up and showing themselves, for what they stand and what they want to do after the election. But I don't think it's easy for me to see a member of the council who's coming into the Senate using the Allali's pan to gain the approval of future elections. I am amazed that men are planning to use the World Council to glorify themselves and to promote themselves in the coming elections of mayor on May 14. I don't like this. You can only take this debatt anywhere else than in the council halls. I'm not going to talk about the campaign in Smokeynestown, selling Alduke.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to offer you what. paritaprevir The peace of R. Friðjónsson is welcome to action. It's kind of adorable to watch this campaign earthquake run in the Independence Party. It's just good and good. I would also like to invite him to have a word with us at a point where we can answer for ourselves and communicate. Just good luck with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u44	A respectable president. First and foremost, I want to thank the highest. Environment, energy, and climate ministers for having this discussion about energy exchanges in terms of climate change and a sustainable future. In view of two recent reports, which in different ways create the importance of clear policies and measures that halted climate change and contribute to rapid energy exchange, I think it is very important that we have this conversation here at the council Hall. One is a report by a staff group, arranged by the highest level. Minister, status and challenges to energy issues that came out last week. The report lists six stage photos of the future energy demand. These scenarios give us some ideas on how the energy issues can develop differently depending on the decisions made on energy efficiency, but this needs to be followed by a clear political policy and a realistic estimate of energy demand. Energy production in Iceland is the largest in the world of every population. It involves the fact that 80% of the electricity produced in Iceland is used in the energy - consuming industry while about 20% are for general use and less industry and businesses. Clearly, therefore, there are many parishes for the better use of our energy. We will need to set priorities for national energy exchanges, reduce energy losses and improve efficiency in existing activations, including with better hardware use and lost heat. It is our primary obligation to the environment and to the Icelandic public today and the future to lay the guards on our targets on fossil fuels and non-carbon shares in Iceland at the latest in 2040. We know that the steps toward these goals must be radical and progressive. We're going to have to drop emissions in all areas of society. During the past few weeks, we have been strengthened to remain independent of others when it comes to energy production. So there is even more evidence to speed up national energy exchanges. In view of all of this, I wondered how the highest. Ministers intend to ensure a sustainable future and explain energy policies and whether these policies take into account the priorities of national energy exchanges. Mr. President. Energy exchange action will require balance between nature's protection, energy needs and social factors, and they will need to take into account justice, while the government contract says, by permission of the President: To build a green, non-carbon society, it has to be established on new fortresses. The important thing is to be cautious about the fragile nature of the country and in the measure of increasing energy use, as well as fossil fuels emissions, to meet population growth and the needs of green industrial structures. I wonder how much I can do. A minister arranges that social reconciliation can ensure new activations. The second report I refer to is the state report on climate issues published on February 28 of the past. The report evaluates the impact of climate change on biodiversity and communities as well as provides needed adaptation measures. I'm not going to write many words about the explicit messages the report gives us, but most of us are aware of our message, which is obvious in the face of clear government policies and emphasis on system changes and climate justice. Iceland's commitments to climate change are multiple, turning to far more than energy exchange. The importance of achieving a synergistic effect should be borne in mind when dealing with climate crisis. This has been the focus of the government and is the basis for the approach to the government's climate action program. Actions related to the recovery of forests or wetlands work, e.g. Also against climate change, as well as increasing biodiversity and protection against desertification. All of these are international commitments that we have agreed to at large conventions of the United Nations. In this context, I wondered how much it was. Ministers intend to ensure the integrated action of energy exchange so that public funds are combined for other objectives and commitments of Iceland. A healthy approach to climate is not only to cut down greenhouse gas emissions but also to take on counterweight measures that enable society to adapt to the inevitable consequences of climate change. In view of the more frequent and more severe natural events caused by climate change, where the delicate ecosystems in the North are likely to be affected, is the minister's plan to focus on adjusting the action against the climate? Science provides a clear picture of the severity of climate change and the importance of clear energy exchange policies. We stand at milestones in which we need to lay the foundation for the future cooling community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Eva Dögg Davíðsdóttir's daughter for taking the initiative in this vital discussion. Regarding the first question, the simple answer is that a minister does nothing on his own. To ensure a sustainable future, everyone needs to work on one, the public, the job and the government, and those who work here at the General Assembly. I think it's important that we be able to use our renewable resources in a responsible way and be able to balance innovation with protection, as is the idea behind a framework plan. I have high hopes that the Council will resolve that matter in spring. Our political vision in energy matters even appears. in the Mosaic Law of any time, but we have also established a energy policy that will guide us in the discussion. Thus, the policy of the government is clear. With regard to the second question, energy exchange is an important factor in achieving the ambitious climate goals we have set for ourselves. Without energy exchange, it will be impossible for Iceland to keep its international commitments. Restored wetlands, land transplants, deforestation, and deforestation, such as Carbifx, are the focus of Iceland when it comes to the binding of carbon. We have a great potential for success in these areas, and we are rich in idealists, who, with the support of Icelandic employment and the government, can raise a crisis. Regarding the third question, the government has set goals on climate issues requiring national energy change, on land transport, on the ship fleet, and on air transport. Clearly, when we stop burning fossil fuels, we are able to achieve a profound reduction in CO2 emissions. Today, all European countries are looking for fires to energy to drive through their energy exchanges. The problem is, they can't afford to earn that energy by their own resources. Therefore, many foreign groups have a keen eye for Iceland in order to access our resources to export and use them for energy exchange abroad. In my mind, it's clear that if we decide to go to more energy resources and use them Icelandic resources, we'll have to help them make use of our own energy exchanges. Only in this way will we achieve our goals in climate. Only in this way will we be worth attacking the forces of energy, and that is how we can get enough of ourselves. We need to make good use of our resources, and one of the things I've done since I've been in the Ministry is putting in a bill to speed up the progress of the dynamic activation, as well as access and support from the heating system have been added to a new bill. Energy sources have been heavily fortified, and less than a billion are involved in energy exchange projects this year, and the Power Institute has also been strengthened. We want the domestic demand, and it will only be met by hand. Otherwise, we need to import green fuels or continue to use fossil fuels. The development of the last few weeks internationally should show us black and white how important it is to maintain our own energy levels. A senator in particular referred to him. Regarding question four, it is to say that if we resolve to watch the bigger picture, watch the important balance between protection and innovation, continue to show respect for nature, highlight green solutions and technological advances, and contribute to open and focused discussions about energy exchanges, climate change and green opportunities, we can achieve social reconciliation about new energy sources. The energy exchange is climate, and all of us agree that we want to achieve our goals in climate change. This requires action. With regard to the fifth question, it is important for the European community to focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but at the same time we need to prepare for the disaster caused by climate change and its consequences. Our vision of the future is that the Icelandic community and the environment have undergone resistance to climate and adaptation to climate change as a regular part of the public, institutions and companies, and a known subject among partners and the public. Adjustments should be made as part of government decision-making, sectoral and sectoral development so that analysis and decisions will put a risk to climate and its consequences. In that work, we base on the best scientific knowledge available and monitoring and research on the effects of climate change on society and nature. Risk analysis is important both in nature and in economic and national impacts. We place great emphasis on the participation of all appropriate strategists and the public along with international cooperation. Conversations with both public and professional life will bring us great benefits. Despite the fact that all our climate plans will become reality, however, there are consequences of climate change that we in Iceland will experience. The rate of drying may increase, resulting in more rapid growth of greenhouse gases and an increase in emissions, resulting in an increase in the risk of flooding. In many areas the rise in sea level, the volume of glaciers will be reduced, permafrosts will melt, acidification and the warming of the sea will lead to changes in marine life. A respectable president. We need to adapt and prepare for changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u46	President. There is a great excess of demand and likely an infinite demand for one of the world's most valuable products, renewable energy. Sometimes, in a country, I think we're talking about a lack of energy, to mislead the debate on electricity, but there's a shortage. There is an overwhelming lack of resource use framework here on the country. We need resource models that take care of all our natural resources, resources that make sure the resources of our resources, the public of the country, are benefiting from the use. Now private members are entering the stage in a decisive way, e.g. The wind, Icelandic and foreign, needs to be carefully fixed by the lack of energy use to the owner of the nation. Can Energy exchange be activated? Not really. There's nothing in electronic law to guarantee that. It focuses on the third energy package, the repetitious subject, and its introduction to legislation. One thing we have committed to do is to define who has the kind of public service, called the Public Service Obliviation, and the priority for electricity use. The obligation is given to the official to define this priority and to make sure that the electricity is available to the common people. We do not have to give a recent example of how this has gone wrong. We need to examine, Mr. President, how the third energy package reads and what it is that we must stress most. We in the United States are even. the opinion that the new government policy needs to be developed because of the energy companies and the resource efficiency, needs to be strengthened by the transport system. Of course, we need to improve energy efficiency and set the priority for energy exchanges first, and of course we need to meet the third step of a strategy that is six years behind. But this is not the responsibility of the government. [[The president calls.]] Let's start at the right end, Mr President, and put the law on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u47	A respectable president. We are now discussing one of the major issues, energy exchanges, the environment. We Icelanders are, unfortunately, environmental reforms, and what may be worst is that those who are the most environmental codes are the richest. We must be careful that in all our activities, it is not to be the least affected, people who are not polluting, but only to try to survive. In Iceland, we have seen an asura, and we have also seen very often the fact that as on Snæfells, it becomes a burning plant and mossoid. We're a little worried about our woods, like the Valley of Borrow. It's a fire trap. It's a fire trap. We say, "We're in Iceland, we're not gonna get anywhere." But look at Australia, it's on for a summer, and the next year it's water - drinking. This tells us that we're not safe, and if we can get it in our mouth or in moss then our forests can start. We've got to start thinking about it now when we're going to increase the foresting process by wearing a belt. Learning from experience, learning from those who have had a bad experience. We can't just close our eyes and think, " Well, it's not gonna happen, we don't have to do anything about it. ' We need tools and tools to deal with this when the time comes. But, unfortunately, here was only one piece to quench a broken fire, then one more was bought, I think, to have some all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u48	A respectable president. In order to maintain our high goals as a government on climate, we really need to examine more energy options. Not only do we need to increase the production of electricity but we need to improve the transport pathways of electricity, since the transport routes are really lacking between land areas, especially when we look to the West and on the northeast corner of the country. In 2017, at the General Assembly of Congress an arrangement on energy exchange measures was adopted. This aims to reduce fossil fuels use and to increase the share of renewable energy sources. Energy exchange will further contribute to the growth of innovation and sustainable development. The Action Programme describes economic incentives for consumers and companies in choosing eco-efficiency technologies and energy sources. The project Bluey is a cooperation project made by National Reactivation, Energy West and Western Institute. The goal of Ethiopia is to promote and support energy exchanges in transport and marine-related industry as well as to promote innovation in energy efficiency. Some realistic ideas have come to their senses. A small boating project on the West is designed to trigger a energy exchange experiment that is usually brief in the middle and thus sustain the shorter in each row. Practical motives could be applied to them. A decline in line will have been greatly summed up on the West, and energy potential could be reflected instead as a source of environmental energy for those using eco-friendly energy, would have a reciprocation that would build on a similar basis as a cross-redirection. More economic incentives could be used to speed up energy exchanges, just as it is being done in transport energy exchange. A respectable president. In order for real energy exchange, electricity is missing in the area of the West. Power production has to be increased. Electricity is essential for the development of employment, society, and energy exchanges in the region. Without it, the fourth will not be able to contribute to government climate goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u49	Mr. President. It was earlier this week that a status report from the work group on the energy situation in this country, which I am pleased to hear that people have stopped calling a green book because they were as much false as possible because of the fact that the document was won over four weeks, which does not offer the management that green bookwork calls on and does not build on any independent analysis but simply focused on the fact that a working group was getting several wishes from the big business and energy sector officials, put it into this report, saying: Here are stages for Icelandic society. This is simply too narrow a approach to provide a basis for the discussion we have to deal with the future energy efficiency in this country. The proposal made by the National Protection and the National Protection Association of Iceland was pushed out of the table in the once - called green book. The fact remains that if we just talk about energy change without discussing where they are going, we face a tremendous challenge because the energy industry is inexplicable. He could activate every single drop that drops in Iceland and it wouldn't do it. What we need is tailored to growth. In this country, more electricity has been activated for every human than has any other country. 80% of that energy goes to the industry. We need to see how we can help the 20% others to embrace Icelandic society. If we increase energy production in Iceland, it can't be that big business is continuing to be 80% of the size of a cake because, in the first place, climate addiction is being used as fuel in the motor of something completely other than green targets.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u50	President. We have resolved to become in the next 18 years the first nation in the world that will be completely rid of fossil fuels. A bold, reliable goal, and a goal that can be achieved is needed by clear ideologies and solid management. The aim can be reached by explaining the responsibility of the party, by implementing the market game rules, and by ensuring that the system works independently of its annual tours and rhythms. The government has clear goals, but it lacks clearer ideologies and engineering. There is a lack of context between words and actions, and the common context is discussed in order to form a global interest policy. During the last term, the Minister of Energy and Environment held hands, a precious time lost. The reason was that I think, no more complicated than that behind the politics, the government parties' agreement to do as little as possible because this government is not founded on clear ideologies and in order to settle a state in the administration home, the results will be appreciated, and we can also see in other cases, to do as little as possible. The lowest contract. Energy exchange promise will only be empty if it is not accompanied by how to secure electrical supply and deliver electricity. This year, all of us, I think, must be strengthened by the transportation system. This is where you have to watch the big picture again. The way to achieve ambitious goals is clear ideologies and clear engineering. The goals are set, as I said, and they are good. We support them. There's a lot of opportunities for Iceland in this category, and we'll stand up here in this room, encourage the management to do good works and give her the strength to stay on the subject when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u51	V.E.G. President. Iceland's climate targets need to be developed to a greater extent by decisions on energy production and energy transport in this country, both of which provide a basis for the exchange of energy in the community and further growth of industry. Energy security requires increased electricity production, high transport capacity, and a powerful distribution system. This is the result of a report by the highest level of the work force. The Environment, Energy and Climate Minister has appointed at the beginning of the year to review the situation and the energy challenges of Iceland. The report includes: six staged photos range from small and no addition to Iceland's electricity production to over doubled it or an increase of 124% up to 2040. V.E.G. President. Our neighbors are jealous of us Icelanders when it comes to energy. It's our duty to watch the whole world when it comes to climate. We are here on earth, all of us living under the same sun wherever we live. It has shown that 80% of the energy production in Iceland goes to major users, even talking about reducing the number of major industrialized plants like aluminium plants. Where, then, should they be? There's a call for love. Are you going to build an aluminium in China by producing coal? Is this better for the climate? I don't think so. I think we should look to the power that's underactive here in Iceland. There's a lot of hydropower used, and windmills could fill in. At the end of my talk, I want to point the highest point. Minister on a case that was agreed here on spring days 2019 on the definition of resources, with which the former Minister would have nothing to do with, and I ask for the highest power. A minister to look at the interpretation, she's very good at helping out at this job. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u52	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect a limited talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u53	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for this very important discussion because it matters in the light of the big film we're all dealing with, i.e. how to deal with the climate problem. There are two things I'd rather go about in the matter of saying a word but I'd like to start by saying that the nature of the situation, if we're going to face the energy exchange, we're going to need to find that energy somewhere. One idea is that of trying to break a new land to do so, perhaps the very way that many feel must go. But I do believe that we should look for all the ways we can to make more of the energy that is already produced. There I rejoice that the thought is expanding in order to try to maximise the power gains in activations where we have already broken a country, to make better use of the infrastructure we've built, but also to get more electricity out of it as well as to try to look for other ways to replace and meet the demand for energy, such as house warming. But there is another factor that really interests me, and that is the importance of social reconciliation. A minister correctly introduces the performance of a political vision in a government contract. The very importance of social reconciliation is spoken of in the Bible. We know that in the historical context, major mechanisms of action can be particularly ablaze in communities. Yet, that is not something. I've made it a subject of interest before, so to speak, so to speak, to grasp the point that as much as possible, the most and the most social peace between countries is when we become part of a power source. It is one very important thing to look at as well as what the advisor points out, to coordinate action when it comes to implementing other international commitments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u54	Madam President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this important discussion. We have set up energy policy to 2050, which was carried out in the transnational work of all members of Congress during the last term. All eight members of the last elected period were involved, with their policy being returned to the minister in 2021. My focus in energy policy was the main transport system of electrical energy, i.e. the line of the world, the wind power and the competitiveness of the country. The three stratospheric program, which has been recommended here at the council and that we are dealing with, there is only one supply of wind and one waiting class, a mixed spirit, and a waiting company of Puberts. It was disappointing during the last term that we here at council did not achieve any further discussion on the issues of the wind. Me and the Icelanders have a policy of achieving a noncarbonization policy in the country no later than in 2040. It is important that we have a clear political vision, a clear view of the council, a clear view of the government, and that all of us, the Icelandic people, have a clear view of how we will achieve the goals of noncarbonization in the year 2040 and how energy exchanges will be accomplished in this country. Climates are important. The status report announced last week is welcome, but the report was prepared for the highest level. Environment, energy and climate ministers, Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson. Vilhjálmur Egilsson, a former senator, led the staff, and with him Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, a former senator, and Sigríður Mogensen. This is a good work that will benefit us at the council, a good overview of energy status at this point. A few words about the electrical transport system. Our high-level system is starting to show the oldest part of the settlement is becoming 50 years old. In this discussion, I would like to suggest that there be a special task and construction of the line from the Cradle Stadium, Akureyri, and the south of the Hailland will be speeded up by any means possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The graffiti circle is the vertebral device in that we use our green renewable energy to the best of our country's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u55	A respectable president. Climate and climate goals must never be used as an excuse for leaving people in a delicate position. That's what happened. The chairman of a government budget board last night, when it protected itself behind the government's climate target in order to justify inaction to the domestics that are now covered by massive prices, increases in fuel and diesel prices, increases in housing costs, and 6.2% inflation, distinguished president. We have work to do in climate change and energy exchange, but the community will never be satisfied with serious climate activities unless the most efficient and vulnerable groups are spared. The neighboring countries have already presented a package of action to meet this domestic crisis of life. Once again, the European government is behind climate change. You can support your homes and work on climate matters, a respectable president. Last night, they presented a series of measures to temporarily reduce fuel costs while increasing the incentive to buy electric cars. Who can buy a new electric car for millions of dollars in the country? It is not a young person, a desperate person, not a person who is under average incomes. On the other hand, who are responsible for the fact that the commercial market for used cars has very little to do with electrical vehicles on the surface? Who are responsible for the lack of interest among tourists in using electrical vehicles in this country and who are responsible for the challenges of participating in energy exchange in the rural area? Yes, it is the government that has failed to succeed when it comes to building wood for electric cars all over the country. I encourage the government not to use the climate suit as a front for economic inactivity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u56	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate of this needed discussion here today. It seems that in recent years, there has been a dread of discussing Iceland's energy issues that have led to a determined halt, and it has even been claimed that lack has the courage to take this discussion seriously. Iceland's largest contribution to climate is its use in green energy. Today, no other nation of such high green energy uses as we Icelanders do, but 85◯95% of all the energy used by Icelanders is green energy. We can be proud of it, but we can do better if it's done. A political committee produced energy policy until 2050 in great agreement and views governments as the means to guide the future. The policy set ambitious goals focusing on Iceland's becoming independent of fossil fuels by 2050. It is my sincere will that the nation become self-sustained about fuel and stop buying oil and gasoline from abroad. We must all want to achieve these goals and contribute to climate, but that is not the only thing. If Iceland becomes sustainable about energy, it will also have a positive economic impact for Iceland. We are here to save enormous currency along with the potential for many valuable jobs. Iceland has every opportunity to be responsible for solutions that will replace fossil fuels. In this context, it is important that the public and the public be supportive of a new creation company. Sustainableness is a desirable goal, whether in fuel or in food security, and future economic growth will be based on green energy. The energy policy says that the energy demand for society will be safely met for a longer and shorter time and that national access to competitive prices will always be made with green energy for homes and businesses. These goals are ambitious and good, but the question of how we're going to acquire this green energy remains. [[The president calls.]] Today, we need to make decisions that may be difficult for some, but they are necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u57	A respectable president. Not to activate or activate. Yeah, we probably have to activate, but what do we do? Air, water, tide? Rehearsals are experimenting with oceanographers, and we should keep a close eye on them and learn from them. But it's a fact that I support the continuum transfunctioners to go into a major industry. It's a greenhouse complex. Let's make a huge greenhouse project our goal. Why? Yes, we will become self-sustained, both with vegetables and even with much fruit. - An ambitious man? - Yeah. Yeah, but we got everything, clean water, hot water, electricity. If other nations, such as the Dutch, can be great in such greenhouse farming, so can we. Imagine the savings in the carbon tracks taking all these goods to this country. That's why we're supposed to think well and carefully outside the box, but at the same time, we're also going to have to do something for the poorest people who are now trying to get in and out of work on old cars that spend 15 in the hundred. At the same time, it's getting smaller indiscriminates due to connect trucks and soon falls down to half a million and I ask myself, " Why not extend this? ' For example, most of 90% of the cases, the electricity in these cars will be sufficient to drive within the city of Reykjavík to drive, e.g. in and out of work, which most of these people are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u58	Mr. President. I want to use this opportunity to teach or school the highest. Minister to green interest. In box 7, we find an increase in the emphasis on prosperity, and this is the financial plan of the government itself: To evaluate the quality of life of the population and to have the government decided to prioritize this policy, national production is more common than other factors. The six well - meaning priorities are spiritual health, housing security, activities in education and employment, a non-carbonized future, growth in innovation, and better communication with the general public. - but there's a little bit of self-sustaining in there. With perfect self-sustaining, economic growth doesn't matter. Consider the case of economic growth. Here's a light bulb, but just changed one of the 16 light bulbs hanging in the air. If light bulbs are deliberately made less efficient, e.g. with spontaneous extraction, needs to buy more light bulbs, and more light bulbs need to be produced. This results in economic growth; more produced, more bought, more economic growth. But at the same time there's also more waste, unless there's also perfect recycling; complete self-sustaining. If light bulbs are made to last better, not so many people need to buy them and not produce so many, either. Thus, economic growth is intertwined, while the buypower of people who had to spend money in light bulbs is increasing. This light bulb thing is not out of thin air. The world's largest light bulb firms had previously total market schemes to limit the transmission time of the light bulb in behalf of their own economic growth, not the public. Economic growth for some where the cake grows bigger and bigger than a slice of cake for those who have bigger than those without. I wonder, because what we use energy is important, if there's any company here, saying, "I'll have one time to dig for Bitcoin." Would we say yes, if there were gold and green forests? Of course not, for it's a lot of crap digging for someone named Bitcoins. [[The president calls.]] Electric coins are responsible for technology, but there are a much better electrical exchanges that do not spend nearly as much energy as Bitcoin, for example. So it's important to choose what we produce, because we need sustainability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u59	Madam President. We need to stay on our toes and make sure that our promises in climate change are carried out. We need a clear view of the future, and we need to look to our next years and decades of action. There, the government could do better. When it comes to the greatest threat of our time, we are required. It can be better if it's enough. Every time we don't do enough or get enough early, the consequences will always be a little worse than they would have been. When this builds up, we face a serious challenge. This is an emergency. We need all available measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to prevent an even greater increase in the average temperature of the earth. We know how much it takes, and we know what the consequences will be if we yield. The goal is to fulfill all international commitments in climate, and we are also to set ambitious goals, especially when governments around the world vary. We are to take the lead and be examples to others. And then what's the plans of the Minister, a respectable president? How will a minister use all available means, adapt the administrations to change needs, and promote cooperation with others? You see, each of us is a subject of the future of the earth. Does government structure an annual action plan using up-to-date climate targets based on established policies and commitments? Will there be clear - scale and time - appointed goals? All our activities and our interfaith activities must be coordinated and active cooperation with members of the government opposition and society everything and other governments, not just in the middle of recruitment. A respectable president. Once more: it can be better if it's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u60	Madam President. The essence of energy in Iceland is that the distribution system of electricity is out - of - date and that it is virtually impossible to carry the existing energy available. It has to be built up yesterday, sooner or later, it does not mean anything to discuss the activations or activations. The import and installation of cigars are now under attack to solve Iceland's energy problems. Windmills are usually designed to last at least 20 years in a troubled environment, such as moisture, heat, cold, sandstorm, and salt, but with better consideration of the average life span of about 13 in ◯14 years. A spherical windmill is produced from fiberglass, which is virtually impossible to recycle, and over the lifetime of these tiny microplastics and fibers are distributed into the environment. This results in a gathering of those who usually end up as a filler or are sent to countries like African countries. Despite the development of green steel and recycling, however, we have to face the fact that by 2050, tens of millions of tons of old mills will accumulate. The total weight of 2 MW cigars is about 250 tons. To make 1 ton of steel, about Half a ton of coal. 25 tons of coal is needed to produce its bases. It is about 150 tons of coal per windmill. Windmills are unstable energy industry, and they can only capture nearly 60% of the wind's energy. This will calculate the amount of energy lost from airflow and the turbulence generated by the turbin itself, which may reduce the production to 30◯40% when the wind blows. Who knew e.g. the production of 1 ton of neoodymium minerals required for about 40 pounds [ 360 kg] of one MW mill yields to 77 tons of carbon dioxide? But when compared, there are 1.9 tons of carbon dioxide in the production of 1 ton of steel. It is the sad truth that environmental protection has little to do with saving the environment, since humans are far too willing to sacrifice the environment for their own ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u61	A respectable president. First and foremost, thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Councilmen here have spoken to. I think we all agree on the need for action. Today, it is time to establish political lines that promote energy exchanges with nature and society. We need to promote righteous transformations in which peripheral groups, both within the country and in the international context, are not left behind. I agree it's a project that's not just on the shoulders. Minister. It is the task of society, and perhaps specifically the task of politics, to weigh the advantages available, and then to make a political decision on how we will prioritize our energy in the coming years. The government has emphasized the energy exchange, but care must be taken to ensure that the harmony of each action is carried out. I also agree that I have hopes that a frame plan will be agreed by the Council and that it is an important team in a organized approach to national energy exchange. There are opportunities to promote a better use of energy, energy savings and production of sustainable energy. It is possible to be outstanding in the field of technology, to form carbons, or to promote an increasing cycle economy, and thus to improve the use of resources. This is especially so when we speed up becoming free of fossil fuels. In the words of Antonio Guterres, United Nations prime secretary, fossil fuel is the endpoint for our planet, for mankind, and for the economy. Thus, the energy exchange is an important part of our contribution to the international climate crisis. At the same time, however, we need to look at the overall picture and move on to the system changes that provide the basis for the development of emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion, as well as why. Parliamentaries who have participated in it. I thought that in the long most serious part, the discussion was objective and balanced, and I think it is very important that we approach this project in that way. There is, of course, much to do. We know that in the energy exchange we had, both in the first and in the other energy exchanges, about 85% of the energy we're using is green. That's the benefit no one would have wanted to miss. Of course, it was not an easy trip. It does not have to be taken into consideration in history to see that it was not as if it were a delight when people had these grand plans and were told about the people who went ahead. I think those people we're fortunate enough to be on a mission should be our role models. We have more ambitious goals than most if not all of these are involved. If we succeed, if we reach our goals, we will be in a unique position in the world. This will benefit us in all things. It will benefit us when we are selling goods and services. It will benefit us internationally, and we will without doubt be proud of that success. But to be successful, we need to be careful. There were some things mentioned here, such as... Just, important transitions, as well as the balance between natural protection and green energy, must always be balanced. We must never lose sight of that ball.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u63	Madam President. It's about 3rd. A bill that could. A board of directors and patrols cleaned up between second and third, as they call it, at a meeting yesterday. We reviewed the election law for information received from a court case in Citynesi from the Westland police chief. The Controversy concluded by the Committee is removing this bill as it is available today. This is a date issue, with respect to the offset of dates due to the publishing of suffixes and another due to local elections in spring. As all of us know, the election is just two months for rural elections and realizes that time is short, and this adjustment needs to be made in a legitimate way. As for the other thing, it's about seal or anything, rather the disposal of goods at all levels of election action, and also punishment if not by law. The management board decided to take that point on discussion and we'll start a discussion at our meeting tomorrow. If we see the need to make adjustments in the law and return with a bill for changing the law on this council, we will. But, hey. However, the board of directors and monitoring committee agrees to provide the current bill listed here for the 3rd. as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u64	Madam President. I think me and what. A senator argues that it is rather shocking that we are changing these laws often this soon after an overall review. The Pollýanna might point out that it is also a sign that we could fix things so that they will be as good as possible when it comes to it. I'd like to ask a few questions about something that I wondered about. Um, in view of the feelings that may be growing in many of us, i.e. that there may be other problems that need to be handled in the law, whether it's been discussed by a management board or a surveillance committee -- yes, why. The senator said that there is one particular point to consider regarding the sealing of goods, and there is something that would happen soon but perhaps for a long time, then possibly into the next session - to start some sort of work on the review or review on the overall reexamination, just to make sure that this law will be as good as possible before the next election will be followed, which would be the expected General elections of 2025 or earlier. That's why it may be good to do these things sooner than later because we never know when the law needs to be addressed. And if we get into it, well, as it has been, that control will soon be removed from power, then the law may need to be applied in a short time, and then we cannot be on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u65	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. Thus, at this morning's meeting of the management and monitoring committee, it is decided to start an inspection of the factors that went into the spotlight yesterday due to the results of the Western Sheriff. Of course, it does not rule out that if I recall correctly, the committee would look more closely at the other aspects of this great law column than there was in a four-way legal structure in a large series of elections. I'm going to admit that it's just because time hasn't been great, that the first and last place we're in is because all too little time was meant for the induction of these great changes and this great code of law. That's why you need to learn. I hear what you're saying. During the last term, members of Congress have even been so ambitious as to expect to introduce their changes before the evangelization in the fall. Now the law has gone into effect, but we're working hard on time because it's local elections in two months. But I think there are a number of lessons to learn from, e.g. the need to hurry when these changes are made. I cannot quickly see why this situation calls for an overall legal review that went into effect based on a total review of the last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u66	Madam President. Yes, I think there are some lessons we can learn from this experience. I agree with that. A senator that one of the lessons we can learn from this is how short the time has been scheduled for induction has as large a change that affects so many executives as these laws do. Another part of the time line that was too tight was the time between the 2nd and the 3rd. ... ayear. There the council might have been allowed to give themselves some room to cover the changes that had been approved at 2nd. to see if they beat the stens to see if they did. The last change was about something that accidentally did not make sense to us as well as much of what we are discussing today. Perhaps we would have taken it if the council had time to allow the case to take one or two weeks between the 2nd and 3rd. Yes, there may be no need for a general review of new total revised laws. But I think it would be expected for a management and surveillance committee to attack some work in the fall after these songs have passed through the first round, that elections have been undertaken by the new law once, because the election law is--this is such a great manual, it's just a flow line for elections and, normally, the problems don't arise until it's tested. In the fall, it might be up to us as we wait for the government to come up with its first business, that the administrative committee and monitoring committees sat down with those best acquainted with the project, and that they would review whether anything can do better for the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u67	Madam President. The person listed here is sitting on a stock board for the last fall and enjoying that experience in this subject. I agree with that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, of course, is part of the problem, if we just call it what it is, that at the end of the council, when events are over, especially before Christmas or that summer, I don't now speak of when an elected period is about to end, people start working very fast and often too fast, and there are many examples of failures in the legal process of that situation. Of course, it is here that we sit on the great General Assembly to band together to change the terms of engagement so that we no longer work in this way. And because of what? A senator was pointing out a project for a management and surveillance committee then I thought it was a very worthy task for that. The Commission and the Commission to review the Parliamentary Act and make a better call for the work of the Parliament and the Congress. Of course, this particular matter needs to be examined in the main context. One of the things that I'm starting to realize is that at this legal hearing at the last assembly, and in the last June, there was a way that is now often under law, with the substantiated text of the Law but referred to in Regulations. We know that everything in the Regulation must be corrected and that is primarily what needs to be done in this way. So before that, there were actually very detailed instructions in the Law text. There will now be some kind of manual in the Regulation, but everything there is to be corrected, and we need to examine carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u68	President. I'm a little worried about the election law and only the law in general if I'm gonna say it right now. Now, yesterday we experienced the most indirect tips, from the Northwestern Police Department and from all our work at a stock board at the end of the last year, I have to say that they gave me a lot of anxiety, a lot of anxiety, especially with regard to what was going on. The director of the administration and monitoring committee said here, that we have been trying to set the handler and clear lyrics and set specific procedures in regulations that are not unusual because changes in circumstances often need to be adjusted. It makes it small that everything within the scope of Regulation is within the scope of Regulation, that there is no clear regarding this until, at least, the first Regulation has been established. We don't have the situation right now, so I know, which is interesting because the message we received yesterday was that in a new election law, it was not a clear law to count the fraction that was clearly a violation based on the findings of the Senate at the end of the last year. A very interesting conclusion. This can certainly be done so that if someone commits himself a month ago, they say, and the Allied agree to a new law and will do what was once not guilty any more, the person will escape. In this way, people can be granted their rights afterwards. You can't take rights from people afterwards. If someone broke off a month ago - or rather, it didn't go wrong a month ago because there was no law on it, but then laws are passed a month later that will punish him - then he can not be punished afterwards. That would be very unfair. It's just a state of justice. In this context, I'd like to look only at the current election law, especially 97. par. 99. gr. and 136. 97. g. deals with the rest of the release of an election when vote has been approved, with the permission of a president: After the meeting has been concluded, optimal management should take care of optimal data and start a count vote. In accordance with national regulations, the Minister of Regulation shall set up additional regulations on the disposal of sufficiencys in the setting of broken votes, sufficiency and sealing of sufficiency if they are sent to another location for speaking and other relevant aspects of the work of the ideal government in this respect. All right. A rather natural law, I would say that covers what needs to be maintained. What exactly is not included in the text, but it is this continuous quality management, the general quality management that needs to be conducted here at the council. Ninety-nine. However, it is up to the minister to appoint a Regulation, to be provided with the proposal of the national government, including for the implementation of general elections, -- that is important - handling conflict tips, handling sufficiency and election records and after counting, including ... aboutdistributionof tendersand other data. Now there was a problem with whether a count had been completed or not, whether it had been a pause at a talking meeting or not, and so on. The conclusion was, somewhere, that it would have been just a recession. Some election governments broke up, and then they met again at a new meeting. It was very complicated, and it really doesn't matter, since handling the provisions is what really matters. If someone planned to set up the implementation rules for the management of ideals in such a way that guests and walking could enter the eligibility data while there was a break in speech meetings, then any foreign monitoring agencies and expected quality institutions in Iceland would also make such an enormous comment on the performance of speech and the handling of markets. No one would state that such a course was allowed. It was just against the law to do it this way. What that meant in connection with the elections, and the results of the election were something we didn't fully agree on. But we all agreed that this was not being handled correctly. No one - I don't even dream that the Minister we now have in this category would think of setting some kind of regulations that will make everything fine if guests and walking can walk into fictitious data when no one else is there. That's when we come to 136. involved in minor fractures. This is in the case of fines, unless there are greater penaltys, according to other laws, if your local administration, election management, sub-election manager or government official is acting in an orderly manner - in terms of, for example, according to local administration. 99. g. - will or will neglect these willfully correct them. In view of what happened in the Northwestern district of last election, we are at least talking about neglect, to a minimum. A message from the police agency that it is just interpreted that there is no clear legal warrant to refer to this neglect article makes me feel as strange as it is. Seriously. It takes an enormous amount of trimming to imagine that anyone, except the person responsible for the count, would allow anyone to wander through the area while the speakers are not there and the head of government. Such imagination comes from another world. That's where I'm getting closer to the problem I'm dealing with in terms of legalization here. Somehow we'll never get this quality process, quality control of the bills we have here. We've got an excellent frame about how this will affect constitution, etc. but what is missing is a quality control thought. How does it work? It works in a way that when we imagine a system like an election, we think about what its purpose is. What Solution Are We Making? What problem is being solved? What can happen while people are associating with them? It's called in the programming language of user stories. One user story is that the voter shows up at the voter's place, doesn't know what department she's going to go to, showed up at the wrong place even, and is going to try to vote -- what happens then? How does the system react to such things? It's one story of user. What happens after the Regulation is set up in this case is provided with instructions on how to deal with it. Having such user stories enables us to approach the law in a way that enables us to test them to see if they meet standards or not. This is an enormously important quality control device. This will prevent mistakes. Then we know here at council that this law - not exactly this but, yes, like, exactly this one, is there, for example. Just talking about some dates. If we had a user story and here, political organizations would sign up to be involved in the election and would be late - the problem would have been revealed right away if we had tried the law with the user history that a political organization is too late. Because other aspects of the process had failed, the problem would have been discovered. Without actually having such experiences, we can't find the fault. It's pretty impossible in such a big system as our campaign laws are for people just to wear them in their heads. That's a big deal, there's a lot of possibilities. There are a lot of possibilities for how people represent their vote on a vote. I've been on several draft committees and the wiretaps you can see on how people mean X are far more than people can ever imagine, and I challenge people to try. I know there's a book that makes people get quite far, but it's not a complete list, it's such a common list. If we approach this project with quality control and thinking differently about how the law is made. We start by creating some sort of user potential. First, we'll create the political party that's going to register. First, create the disabled person who will vote and need an assistant. We start by creating a counting team that gets a variety of different votes in the hands to see if it is valid or invalid. First, we need emissaries in order to imagine the problems they face. It was a lot of problems brought on by agents, and what responsibility is it to handle them? None of this is clear. Everyone is working in a certain uncertainty and guessing how to handle these things and not. That's the problem in the Northwest District in the last election, in complete order. There we saw a variety of elections, both 2021, 2017, 2016, and earlier, just depending on who was in the government. There were different experiences. Some did this just as they did last time, but they may have had the same problem. In another outstanding example, there was something very different. It is one of the elements required and the power to change the terms of the election that the project was performed differently in different places. We got reports of how a briefcase was found with an out-of-count terms, reminding me that it was, in the South Sea for some election ever since. The number of their votes made it irrelevant how they voted had fallen, it would not have changed anything, but there was still some 101⁄220 votes that were not really counted. It was just decided to stab them under a chair. The vote had been closed, counting everything and publishing - and just vops, oh, oh. There would have been a list and a token of how many votes were paid and how many votes were given to show that something was missing. It's been fixed ever since. This has led us to learn, but it's not something we should learn, it's one of the basics of quality monitoring in the whole process, since the election begins and until the election is over and the results are presented. I just want to reiterate how important it is in such a fundamental democracy that the election is that we can have exactly this user story that I want to call, and I'm just a transfer from the programming environment. They are absolutely key to describing how the system works and how users approach the system, how young people who have never chosen access to the system. The first time I chose, it was a vote with these symbols, letters that a man was supposed to mean. But there was no box in front of the letter, and I didn't know where to put a cross. I had no idea. I went and asked. Not everyone starts asking and marking something different on the bank. Since then, special boxes in front of the letters have been added to mark them. It wasn't even like that. Today, in certain tests in some places, the whole box needs to be shaded into to mark a box, in tests that are automatically analyzed. Some are scrambling in the box, and that has made them invalid. Big deal. Many of these things that we need to do better, and I think we need to introduce other thoughts only in general how we do law and then we need to focus more on quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson for a good and thorough review of matters that are very important and how we are elected in our excellent democracy. I'm like a dog. A senator and others in this room, I suppose, among those who spent a few weeks in the last fall to review these cases for the free will - so that I use now -- I was going to say objectively but there is another story - in the implementation of the Northwestern election and these are weeks that I can't get back, just to be said here, that none of us can get back. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's why, so I'll just start with the case that stands a little close to me, because of this and the work we've put into this, undeniably interesting to see a news transfer of the matter being dropped, not necessarily that it had been canceled, but that the reason had been unsure about the election laws. At the top of everything that goes on, then, we're stuck with some kind of hatching, which is not a hatching, but likely some kind of an end to this case because there is a question of election law. And I want to ask you why. A senator, and he spoke for example. about how much we were allowed to improve as lawmakers when we were working these issues, how much he cares for us. It came, for example. ... ina matterwhat. The chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, Þórunn, the Sveinbjarnardóttir Beard, said that, in addition to examining this campaign team, it might need to be considered. [[The president calls.]] Whether by election law or by other laws, how can we make sure that this does not recur?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u70	President. People are very resourceful when they come up with something new that no one else has ever thought of. So I don't think we'll make everything perfect. We can never put the election laws in a box that everyone will fit in and nothing will go wrong. However, we can prevent the greatest and most critical defects by just trying to identify where they are going to take place. One small flaw that I find interesting in an out-of-count bill is, for example, an internally interesting one. which letter this is. [[Up front.]] Yes, exactly. This is a letter that comes to an over-crowded text. [[HFK: This is D.]] This is D. This is not far from P. [[HFK This is independent...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u71	The president asks people to keep their voices in the hall and encourages them. A senator to direct his words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u72	Excuse me. We paged, for example. in an old manual book, we were playing with the Committee, finding out what letter was, because there were some very strange ones. So we'll always be in some extreme situation. It just needs to be clearly identified in advance where the Croatian places are, e.g. in the transport votes between ideals and count positions, in the count of votes - of all places - that it is a good witness to all safety factors there, a re count, observation and such as it is not changed, e.g. mid-count methodology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u73	Madam President. There are various ways, that is correct, and there are many ideas. Of course it is that human behavior cannot be framed, and, fortunately, within a box. They have been tried, usually with very bad results. But what I find in my heart about this urgent discussion is, in fact, so much. The fact that when the committee goes into the second regap, they are still coming out of the boxes wrong to count votes, votes to the wrong place. This is totally incomprehensible in this little thing. I'm kind of wondering, 'cause now it's all part of the question. A senator who has made use of electronic elections, the class I am in has made good use of, for example. in a test line: Is this perhaps something that we should consider more seriously, trying to use today's technology, and offering an electronic vote? I may not be there yet, I don't know. But it would be interesting to hear a point of view. A senator with a ID and who chooses. There is a problem with that, a variety of possibilities for any kind of pressure, or the like, but you can also think of an electronic vote, even if it is in a ballroom. At any rate, there is no doubt as to what ornamental scripts are to translate and difficult to invalidate, etc. Is this something that is completely out of the picture because of a security objective that is stronger than the ones we see repeatedly broken in the present system? Is this something we should consider for ourselves? Can you take one small step in this direction in some way? Is this something that could bring us to a better place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u74	Mr. President. I totally agree that we need to take these steps. At present, people have remarkable trust in paper elections, but based on our experience of counting and how the votes are there in different places and a valid vote in the invalid box and stuff like that, when they're little, they can be extremely important, it's very strange that people don't trust the electronic election. I understand some of that. People fear that there can be a major impact on the results of electronic elections if anyone is within the system. But it can be accessed in a different way in the first place, such as by the campaign launcher in the commodities room, where you choose electronically but also receive a vote note you're going to hit in a ballbox. Then you have the results of the election right away and have a paper confession of the way to witness to the electronic system giving the right results. This can later cause us to stop needing the paper vote because it's just gonna work out. It could also help, for example, with the electronics. One of the problems of elections abroad, for example, is to send mail to mail across the Atlantic or Pacific or whatever it comes here, I don't see that there is anything more dangerous than checking into electronic identification and that's how it registers. The problem is that Icelanders don't get electronic IDs, which is something we just need to fix and do better. So there are definitely potentials there to make things more accurate and enormous tracts that save us all night of possible mistakes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speech and training. I'm glad to hear it. A senator who has sat on a draft board and brought up here a specific example of what issues are being dealt with when trying to identify the voter's will. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the law and the importance of the law being completely clear when it comes to rules that apply, e.g. the treatment of suffixes, the rules of votes, whatever it is that causes an invalidation, etc., whether it is necessary to invalidate a prescription when a person makes a decision to write little of the reverse to compare with the letter so that there is, in fact, a doubt as to who was going to be the person. Why do I say that? I may always be stuck in the importance of being clear, just like that. A senator, that there are legal requirements, and in such important matters as the election law, which, of course, are just a manual on the implementation of elections and how to implement them to ensure that democracy is carried out, how important it is that there are not a lot of appreciated points there for the executives around the country to do something that it has always been done. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u76	President. Quite a good question. I had a lot of experience during the recent draft board that there's a huge will for a stock board to interpret the voter's will. It is the voter who enjoys the doubt and particularly much in an out-of-count bill. But if it's at least a ballot at a ballot meeting, a vote is invalid. There's a remarkable difference between us, how strict we are about terms at a meeting, they're also shaped, compared to an out-of-count bill. It was, for example. one vote log with this type of vice versa C on an out-of-count leaflet, it was upside down. Nobody understood until the log was laid on the table, and the one sitting across the street could see that it was just a regular C. At that time, the voter had opened the extracorporeal card, writing C and returning it. Is it invalid vote or valid to write vice versa C? It was something important. Another big deal, I think, about interpreting the decision of elections and interpreting voters' wishes is that we offer elections because we're choosing groups when we really do, they're people and people who get the authority. Our campaign system is, in fact, we're choosing people, individual senators, but the election system and the voter's choice are our party. There's a difference. I think he's interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is really pretty serious. The senator is telling you about the difference between the treatment of sufficiency or sufficiency notes after you have voted on whether or not you will be there for votes and votes or outside an election meeting. I also saw it as we sat on a stock board during the last term that we were dealing with the cash that came from the embassy. It was quite freely handled with the rules of election law. I was worried that the executives of the election have to have the rules clear, I think that's a very low level. It doesn't seem to be, unfortunately. So, of course, there's also a lot of complaints about how out-of-state elections or elections are being made in this country when that election begins long before the campaign has arrived. Of course, the voter can come back to fix his vote, that's the newest terms you'll ever have. But compared to e.g. You're a little worried that there's enough to make sure that there's not much votes coming from the same people. Of course, it's a special project, I think, to prevent anyone from driving a long road with a ball box by himself. [[The president calls.]] I think all of us must agree that it needs to be prevented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u78	President. Yes, it was serious indications that they were not stored in sealed ballots and even counted or classified previously, which may not be, but may be reasonable to be allowed because it is merely a grouping between votes, etc. But there was something else. A senator mentioned earlier that I wanted to draw only attention to. She spoke of the references and actually the identification of a vote. There is another major concern that seems to be that somehow it can be attributed to the individual's prescription. I think this is an exaggeration of concern. We're too suitable for this. I understand that in some ways, and especially in rural elections, where there may be few people in the district, etc. but when you're gathering and driving long distances and mixing votes after you've stopped, etc. it will be very vague unless the person's name may have been signed, but I'm not going on it. There's a certain cut-off at a vote between election privileges and election security as such and being able to vote, confidence is being made there, e.g. with electronic elections. Many have criticized it with electronic elections that each vote can be matched. It can be replaced so that it can't be done, of course, but it's a little more complicated. But we are deeply concerned about the identification of votes, rightly, I think, but too much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u79	Madam President. Someone may wonder how much we want to talk about elections, but it's even now that in elections it's decided who's in here. As September 63th, the senator who was assigned a Senate seat is particularly important to me that we do things right. It has been often said: It is okay to make mistakes if we just do them once, if we learn from them and fix things so that we do not make the same mistakes again. Then we need to be prepared to look in critical terms at all the incidents that came up, not only in these elections but also in other elections. Even if one of them has been turned into a new election law, there are still a lot of points that voters, candidates, even super-electors, hit, which were not clear or enough well thought out. One of the factors involved in such complex laws is that we ask ourselves such questions as: What if? What if we're going for example? What's the rules, then? We all know that in the Constitution it says that the President can refuse to sign laws and that the law should then go to national law. When this law was first applied, the General discovered that there were no instructions on how to proceed in such a national law because the question had never been asked: What if? I mentioned it here, in the last discussion of this bill, that, for example, it was the law to vote, as found in 125. Gr., a child of his day, needs to be examined. That particular article first came into the U.S. It was not difficult then to vote, but it was simply necessary to vote again for this one general. Then we put a few patches on the old songs and added that there was something named lists in larger ballots. And, yes, it was only an influence in that district. Then we added another patch to the campaign law because the votes were not correctly distributed and we created the ideologies of replacement council. Still this one article will be held, and the election will be re-elected. What does that mean? Does this mean that elections are to be done in that particular district? Are we going to re-elect the entire country? All of this is not clear. Are the candidates to be reassigned or not? That's not clear. Was it to be taken into account that between the presentation and vote may have been decided, the national ethic had begun to reduce the number of members of the northwestern district by one to add to the southwestern district? Was that to be replaced? None of these had been through this vital discussion: What if? That's what we need to fix. We need to look at the law as it is, and we need to think: " What happens if this article goes through? If this specific article will be applied, what does that mean? Have we thought about it through all the bill or the law? It is not just the article on the election that needs to be considered. Apparently, when it came to the election that last took place, the role of the agent, in particular in the matter of election management, is not properly defined. Can be grouped, e.g. put their own seal on a optimal box before being transferred from the polling department to a spoken - out facility? In some departments I joined as an agent and an agent of the list, the answer was yes. In other polls, the answer was no. In some terms the answer was yes, in other terms the answer was no. There's a lot of things out there that are vague. It was also shown: How should this be done when it is felt that the question is being reviewed? Need to contact all agents, must all agents be present? In some places, agents get to stand and watch the count, elsewhere they have to stand between 10 and 20 yards [10 to 20 m] from, even up in the 20th century of Capakika, which we Nautilus know is no small work. [[Foreground: Say.]] All of this requires more definition, and it is not always enough to say: Yes, we just set some rules on this. When and if someone is to cheat, we need a good environment to keep track of them. We also watch with a draft board, which was now given a long time to work in the fall, taking a chapter on how the Council decided on the value of elections - I'm almost sure they were. Councilmen on that committee can no doubt point to a number of things that might be considered better in the definition of the work of a letter committee. Chapter 22. Let us learn from this so that the next draft board does not have to go through the same problems and may be able to decide within two months. In the end, there is yet another factor that was pointed out to be true. Councilmen have mentioned the above, but this is about votes paid outside an election meeting, especially the votes paid abroad. The haggard lives in a large part of the past decade in a foreign land, I can certainly say, it is difficult to take advantage of the rights we have to vote in elections. For one thing, it is often so that there are long distances to the next voter or embassy. For example, it would have been completely impossible for me to choose when I was living in Rwanda in the middle of Africa because all borders were closed and the next embassy and the next voter for more than 20 hours drive away. We need to work on improving our network of jurists around the world so that foreign residents can choose to do so. So it was that many of the voters did not even know that elections were coming and when voters, Icelanders living abroad, intended to make a vote, there were no votes and no instructions. We need to do this, and as repeated in the previous talks, there was something about votes paid abroad not to meet the conditions for future living because there had been no good enough counsel on how to do such things. These are all the things we have to deal with. Of course, we also need to deal with the fact that even though we as older ones are used to putting X in a box, it is likely that anyone born in 1990 and later feels that the choice is to fill out the box, because that is how the National Institute of Science taught them to answer questions in a consistent test. So there are many things we need to correct. I'm very sorry that this opportunity wasn't used to fix these things right now, but I have strong hopes that a board of directors will work well together to examine all these things, not just what the Westland police pointed to yesterday, but all these things that are better off and that we won't make the same mistakes twice, three or four times, now or five times. Then it's no longer a mistake, so it's become an obsession. Let's fix this because it's important. It's important to have voters reflect here at the council. I strongly urge them to do so. The management and monitoring committee -- I don't suppose you can bring this back to her - put the initiative in order to fix the mistakes or prevent the mistakes of elections in the fall, and apparently still lacks it in these laws; make it the quickest and bring it here to the council. I believe the members of all classes want them to be done before we have to go back to the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u80	A respectable president. There are a lot of things in our law code about elections that need reexamination. Some of the ways we can adapt it is by altering election law, but there is something else that also calls for a change in constitution. I think we only need to talk about the fact that we are still living in an arrangement where it is the General himself who has decided the value of elections to the Generals. That conclusion is not charged with any court. She's not charged with any independent authority. This is an arrangement that simply does not measure up to the demands that have developed on the European Court of Human Rights and then is talking about the rights of the people to participate in the voluntary and democratic elections and the right of people to obtain a release from any party of their rights. This is made clear by the judgment issued by the European Court of Human Rights in 2020, which was involved in a campaign dispute in Belgium. For good reason, the Venetian Commission has suggested that the ultimate legal rights of the election be placed in court. This requires a change to the constitution, but this is a problem. You see, it is a fact that all government reforms have been classed as a political hostage here at the General, for more than 20 years. Since 1999, with the exception of a preliminary regulations adopted in 2013, the Constitution has not been changed, and there was nothing done and it ran out of 2017. It could now happen over the second time, with short intervals of years apart, that Iceland will be judged in Strasbourg for not meeting the minimum requirements made by the European Union on a democratic regime, on an independent court, about, in short, the good and liberal governance, and it's very serious. It is long time to break this position and change the constitution to the suitability of public demand, the demand for active democracy, the demand for Iceland to fulfill national commitments to the right of people to obtain an independent release of the legitimate elections, and the Council must live up to that responsibility. It is also important to consider that a fundamental prince of equal importance. Now, even as Americans have always fought for two things; on the one hand, people's favors and the other, the general public rights of their clients. Of course, in the past century, the right to vote was a matter of speech. It is of interest, if we examine the history of the story, how equal figures have viewed all differences from equal elections as a violation of human rights. This battle has been a matter of ensuring equal elections regardless of the economy, regardless of gender. In 1927, The Héðinn Valdimarsson gave a remarkable bill, perhaps one of the most remarkable bill ever delivered by some of its own senators, an overexploited bill for a administrative directive of a change in constitution. This was about reducing election age to 21 years, and those who had accepted from the countryside because of poverty would then be granted the right to vote. What may be the most relevant thing to us today is 2 c. This bill, which states that in the General Assembly, 25 members of the Parliament are elected to vote national elections and sit in a single seminar. In the report of this excellent bill, it says thatUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Since the ideal decree has been largely maintained, the result is that each voter in some elections has a multifold impact on the votes of the voter living in other terms, and thereby a multifold effect on the whole country's rule. According to the anthropological teaching of Congress, all the adults in the country should have equal influence in these matters, and in the civilized lands they will bend so far from that goal as far as land is concerned. These things are coming, and very few to the point of mass mass, where the people of work are gathered together into the sea, and therefore the people of the work are the most doer, who cast off the outspoken decree... So the Héðinn of Valdimarsson looked at the vote as a fundamental human rights and an inconsistencies as a total violation of princely rule of human equality. Of course, there are ways to correct this situation. One would be to transform the country into one outstanding example by means of simple constitutions. Another is actually increasing the number of economists. I remember no better than that in the late term period, in which the political parties, which were made a dramatic way by the political parties who are enjoying just the profit of an incontinent vote, the members of the United States, and the members of the United States, were given a hearing about this. Right at the end, I think it's something we should keep talking for, fight for. There are a number of things that have to be changed into the Constitution in terms of elections, in terms of the implementation of democracy and the right to vote. This is one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u81	Madam President. We'll discuss a matter that will likely flow smoothly through the council and not with much disagreement, as there is a review of a huge number of important legislation, important adjustments. I think that it has become clear, after the fall, how important it is for the implementation of democratic elections to be clear, accurate and in harmony with the basic ideas behind democratic elections, which are in our system secret and equal, and other fundamentals on which our democracy rests. It has been suggested that the terms of the law include... various indications of the current law. At that time, two legions, one of the U.S. elections, and one of the U.S. There were certainly some tips received from a number of sources, including those of active institutions through the years, from the European Security and Cooperation Centres and from the rest of the countries that I will consider in more detail below. What causes me to worry, however, is that with these changes, not everything that was needed to change but possibly things that were not needed to change. It's in my opinion that there are very many people in our society today, and it's been in recent years, a certain fashion, so to speak, to simplify things. Talking from my personal point of view often causes me resentment, which is thirsty of information and always wants to know everything in detail, that it is very much foreign now that simple websites, parties, companies, and other things. What often happens with such simplicity is that information we need disappears. Accurate information and the fact that in some part of the world, detailed information is being underestimated, I think, these days. I fear that they played in the sentence of these laws, and they may be somehow confirmed by what is shown in the bill. The report discusses much about simplicity. There's a lot of talk about efficiency and other fashion words, I'm going to let myself say; what I sometimes think is oversimplified and impairment of information that is necessary. Except here we're not just talking about information, here we're talking about rules. I understand these views in a number of ways. I understand the effort to keep things simple. For many things become clearer by being simple, but we lawyers know that things do not necessarily become clearer by becoming simple, often becoming less clear, and even usually. But this may be especially true when careful details need to be clear, especially in the implementation of elections, where every detail can matter and can simply be a crucial factor, and we have seen it. I'd also like to teach a few things about the specific practices and specific changes we make and possibly some of the changes that were made with the sentence of these laws, which are consistent with this simple, and because perhaps the regulations that need to be in the law have to be fulfilled. I think we underestimated and underestimated everything until this fall, the consequences of our failure to follow the details, the details being not okay, the performance not in order, and the rules are not clear, we underestimate it. I'd like to bring some quotations. Although they're showing a huge deal of work and bad practice, I'm not going to take too deep in the year, in the election now in the fall--which, although the comments I'm going to get to recall here are very serious and I'm going to say that there's a lot of carelessness, carelessness towards the need for certain rules to be respected, I don't think they're also reflecting, at least to some extent, to some extent, a simple person that I think is more common than we might want to admit, a certain like this is going to meet the need for certain rules, and our confidence that it's probably nobody wants to do anything bad. Everybody wants to do good, and we're all super good at shallow and honest and all that. The comments I would like to review are the comments made by the former chairman of the Prime Minister in the Northwestern Presidency following the election this fall, the total election in September 2021. Then he answered, including, asking why the evidence had not been sealed while leaving them between the talking round: There has never been a problem with this. That's his answer. This, of course, describes a view that if something has been all right up until now, no one has tried to cheat those elections so far, it may not necessarily be likely that it is going to happen. Asked about the access of people to the hall other than the employees of the election and election management and others, the chairman said: 'All speculations about such are nonsense. There was further evidence on the subject of further examination. It turned out that other people had access to the hall and that even when no one else was there, they could have been in the hall. Then the chairman says: "I think these data have only been perfectly guarded, and neither are they of any concern. The Chairman is not worried about that. He believed it was just fine, and maybe it was, but is that enough? Regarding the presence of emissaries in the regap, executives were severely critical of this, the president said: 'They have nothing to say on whether or not to repeat it.' They were notified of the count, and some attended. There's something I personally have seen in my work at the election. Now, I've been working on various elections over the years, both in sub-election and in a local government that is responsible for the implementation of campaigns at a vote. I've noticed that people often don't understand the purpose of certain rules. They don't realize why it needs to be sealed, but not something else. They do not realize why these or other things have to do and what is more important, and they reflect in these words of the Chairman I was reading, not realizing the role of the executives. When it became evident that more people had access to this hall and that this data, the chairman is asked how many had access and if there were evidence to it. Then he said: "I don't know how many keys there are to these passages [...] There can be 50 keys to this space, I don't know. When we walk further on, he says: "It may well be that the staff of the hotel had access to this room. The chairman is asked, "Did anyone enter into the hall in your absence when there was no one else in the room? ' Then the chairman says: "We know it wasn't. When he was in pain, he says: "Because I know. These are truly serious comments, as I mentioned earlier, and serious tactics but, in my opinion, a certain innocence. I fear that this innocence, this particular simple act, will be reflected in some of these new laws. Then I'd like to mention, for example, what has now come up in the media about a seal, an interesting coincidence that it has to do with a seal as well as at the end of a talk, when it is actually given to a minister to import it. There's another development I think of as dangerous, which I also think has been a bit in the past few years, and that's more relevant, but there's another debate, which is to deliver the implementation of all ◯ minor matters to a minister, in fact, to the simple law section. That's where the difference between the role of the Generals is forgotten because we trust everyone and we're all good, and we're not worried that there's any bad intentions or anything, and the role of Ministers, and why things are in the Senate's hands at first. This is because the council is the National Assembly, and there are certain decisions that the council needs to make and be responsible for. Without doubting any minister of verity, we should be aware, just thinking of the possibilities throughout history and the history of other nations, that it is not wise to place as important things as the rules for sealing of goods in the hands of the Commission. Of course, this should be clear. This should be clear in the law. This has to do with the rights of the citizens to trust that the elections are correct and reliable. I'm just getting started, and the time's over, but I thought I'd get up for five minutes with this speech, but it's going to be 15 minutes. But what I'm trying to come from is that this code of law and those comments, they're failing at this we've seen in these last days, just in the last few weeks, is that I'm really worried about the coming election. I'm worried about this law group. I count them and the people who came to this job have done a good job, I don't want to belittle them at all, and a lot of work was put into them, though the passing of time was short. It was given way too short, and I think there are many who agree, even that the execution of the project agrees with that. It was far too short of time given to set these laws. We are getting elections now, and we need to make sure that they can be done in a safe way, and we still have less time to go. I'm really worried about this. Of course, I support the adjustments we're going to make with the bill under discussion. It has already been decided that the Commission and the Commission will take a closer look in the next few days, but I just wanted to state that I'm concerned for many reasons, hoping that we can save this, at least so that the next election can be more successful than the last. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. I have to say, though, that I almost felt that it was painful to read it. The senator was reading this Škvot in connection with the mess in the Northwestern district, but it is also very important that we maintain this practice. It is true that we are not unique, and we are tamed into thinking that we of all people have some kind of extradite. We do not have to wear things very tightly because in some way we are free of the things that make most other nations, i.e. the tendency to do wrong when possible. Likely, the few are the ones who do this. If we do not know the person we are talking about, it is not long before we know him or her, and it all becomes more personal. And we are used to speak in ways to prevent the possibility of misbehavioring them is the same as an accusation, that the same is to accuse a certain person named on the exact misbehavior. All discussions of these matters simply run into a ditch, including a ditch. This is why. Hv. A senator used the word innocence, that we were innocent, that we didn't believe in people. But here as in other places, huge interests under the political approach are on a case, especially because we are a resource - related economy, and it just counts for a huge number of decisions made here, what defenses are hit, where the fences are, etc. So I want to ask you why. A senator: Why should we not be abusing somewhere in our society because these are laws and rules not as they should be? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator with his experience in e.g. Do we, as a nation, have any personality traits other than other nations that make us think about these matters? [[The president calls.]] - I have another question, but I need to come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for the questions. Yes, I think this attitude is especially caused by the people's food mentioned by the senator, and I'm also going to allow myself to use the word merely in connection with what the senator mentioned. We wave to accuse people of different or bad intentions, and I think they also played in and sometimes even intervene in a government study and police investigation of matters, i.e. Our shyness in taking certain things seriously, just taking into consideration the possibilities of wrongdoing, I'm not necessarily going to say bad intentions. This plays with the mentality that is at least OK, we all stick together, and we're all on the same team. I think this is what makes us trust each other, which is positive in a very many ways, extremely positive. I don't lock my apartment -- now everyone knows it, and I have to go lock myself - because I trust people, and I think that applies to a lot of people. But this is especially true of serious and important things, such as democracy that democracy does not have to be carried out. It must also have the appearance of being carried out. For us to continue to have such confidence, we too need to show that we are worthy of trust. This is done by making things clear, by making them transparent, by keeping the rules clear. I'd like to mention an example I've always wondered about the difference between e.g. Iceland and other countries. [[The president calls.]] In Iceland, we have a social security number. We have a number for every citizen. In France, there's nothing like that, but your name is something. [[The president calls.]] If you move, you've actually changed your social security number. This is a point where our law, our rule, is stricter and more accurate than in other countries, despite all this confidence. [[The president calls.]] I find this interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u84	Mr. President. Very interesting. And that thing with the social security numbers, you have to fly them around shopping in various things, and it's a question for whose development this is. It's an interesting way to put it next to you. A senator, one who also forgets in the discussion, and that is, in turn, in addition to this coercion, how gullible we are, and ready to be used for individuals when they are talking about improvements in any system. The systems that are fine are especially meant to serve those working within them. I can name a few names that would have liked things to have been more specific to specific circumstances in specific elections. It is not as if these systems are placed on the head of people who intend to work within them, who protect them as well. I'd like to go to the second round to return to my experience. Because we're going into this review, a senator of elections, and I'm just saying that it was being worked in too hurry, and especially the induction, and that's a crime, and we need to take a closer look at it in general. But that's what they call online elections. Are we at the point where we can seriously begin to reflect on these possibilities? It's strange to be discussing these cases and the offenders that we've known and again I refer to that experience and, in fact, just the shock I've been given to re-start number two in the northwestern district when votes were still being adopted from the wrong bats or miscounted or something. All of this is beyond description. Network elections are not perfect. There are mistakes there, but they exist in various editions, and I would be interested in hearing them at the end of my mind. A senator's opinion of how we could take the step in that direction while taking care of the things we care about, i.e. The secret and the possibility of it, if people don't want anyone to know what they chose, that they are sure to be assured. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u85	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I just want to make sure that I've never been a campaign officer. I have worked in elections in elections, which actually makes it possible for me to agree with them. A senator said that there are clear rules that truly serve those who are to care for and are responsible for these responsibilities. Especially in simple cases, such as the fact that a election needs 100% confidence and security or as close as possible, the rules will become even more complex than you would imagine or would think. Then there are these questions that often arise in these activities: Why is this so or gay? They really don't understand it, and if we don't understand it, they can't be expected to, for example. All the college students that are being pulled into a voter administration, and in a ballroom, and in a line of names and such things understand, can't be demanded that everyone understand the points that have caused trouble in the country's elections over the years. How important it is that they have tremendously clear instructions and that they are very accurate, transparent, and clear. I believe that this has more and more things to do with the law. I've heard that people think of regulations more as some kind of manual, the law is something so big and serious, but I don't think there should be anything different about reading a law book than reading a law code. So having the law, having it really in one place would probably be better, just having the election laws so clear that we don't need regulations. That would be wishful, though there may be some details that would need to be implemented in the Regulation. Then there must be something that does not change everything, whether it is done in one way or another. [[The president calls.]] With the senator's question, which I haven't yet asked, I don't think we've been able to figure out a solution to ensure that election is classified during the online election. [[The president calls.]] However, I believe that I've been to that point for a while and that we've been in a place where we could have elections electronically, and I found it very interesting to listen to what was said. þm. Björn the Leví of Gunnar once mentioned in this context as to solutions to the problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u86	The President reminds me of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u87	A respectable president. I found it interesting to observe exchanges and conversations here, arguments that took place between them. The members of Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristtar's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson. Even there was a number of them. I'm just gonna talk about it, because all of this has to do with this, of course, that I was doing my own election check in Russia in 2004, and it was a very interesting experience and it taught you a pretty good lesson. There was a man watching the elections of a large nation where the democratic tradition is not as strong as we are, and you saw that mark everywhere, both in the implementation of the election and in the count. Although we hadn't seen any misstep in that place exactly where I was under surveillance, in a city called Izhevsk, comments were made to one and another in the election by the SE. I remember that it was a great experience to be able to observe and see from the first hand how election goes on in a state like Russia at this time, how new it was for many, how complex things were, how different it was somehow, from what we're getting used to in Iceland. I remember that it was in a man of some kind of gratitude and a sense of security that we were, fortunately, in Iceland, with our tradition there, our constant, devoted and powerful order, that there was always confidence in elections, that we would never argue about the outcome of the election, that the democratic system here was firm. Of course, that's the way we've wanted it, and that's the way it's been. I think it's very nice to say that the question just mentioned is that we shouldn't take it as given and make sure it's always all right here. Of course, we have a very recent example from the elections last to prove that when we are discussing elections or democracy in some way here in this hall, we must be careful. Of course, we are now in that position here on this issue, because we are doing this matter for the district election, and it is important that it be done, and we all agree that the news of yesterday may put us on certain positions, and we need to keep in mind certain points when we continue with the subject and the discussion. Yesterday, in the news, the chief of police in the Westland concluded that we're dealing with the case here at the council, in an indirect manner, we can say. I'm going to refer to a letter that the Westland police chief published on his website today. It refers to the election law that went into effect on January 1, 2022. So says, with President's permission: ▪ In terms of a police officer's opinion, this is not as clear as the obligation to sealing of goods as was done in the current election law No. 24/2000. It is not directly discussed on the obligation to seal the terms provided by a count in current election law No. 112/2021.◯ So it continues: 1st. 2nd General penal law No. 19/1940 reports that since the act was performed, penalties will be judged by the new law. This is true both of the punishment and the punishment involved in this case. Since there is no direct and clear discussion of the obligation to seal the surrogacy after a count in the new election law, in contrast with the older law, the sheriff of police feels that there is a doubt about the sensitivity of the intended offense to the defendants. No doubt, the defendants must be interpreted in favor of the principle expressed at 108 st. legal action on criminal treatment No. 88/2008.How's it going? In view of all of this, a police officer concluded that what was presented in the investigation was not sufficient or likely to be convicted, so the matter was canceled. This falls into the CIA yesterday, and as a result, the case went into an executive and surveillance committee where I'm sitting. There was a discussion this morning, and a reasonable decision was made on the whole matter that a little more detail must be made. Now, to some extent, we may be dealing with the question of what to be in a matter of law and what to be in law. It was being reviewed, and I may be painting a very simplified picture of this, that the rights somehow were guaranteed in the law, while further implementation was then in the Regulation. I kind of agree with what happened. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir said that this must be a very careful look. When we're talking e.g. About how to treat and treat ideals, how to deal with them, clean up and complete the rigid rulework, we must not throw them into our hands. I agree, and I hope I'm handling the right thing, worrying what. The senator's giving too much power into the regulations in which it is administered. That's at least Something that I think we need to do well with the management and monitoring committee at this point. Of course, all of this wakes up last night to have an awkward mind connection about all the things that happened in Citynes after the last election. It tells itself that when we suddenly come up with a case that speaks of sealed resupplys after a count, all the alarm bells must be ringing. I just want to mention in this context that I was talking earlier about how we had been able to trust the system here and, of course, the democracy and that we have confidence in the democracy, the democratic process and the whole order, the complete basis of the community we live in today's society. Of course, there is little we would like to change. That's what we need to look after. We must not take this for granted. We need to take care of this. I think the least said is very bad, and, of course, we're all agreed on in this room, that there's a lot of doubt after the election, not to be talked about by the magnitude of the last election. I can trace it here, of course, all of this had to be checked and investigated, that there were some 125 hours in the preparatory board of letters that covered all of this. This case was just a huge test of democracy, and as I say, some kind of distrust of democracy had suddenly developed. Both of us were beginning to doubt and wonder what would have happened there during elections and then, of course, developed and developed into our discussion that we began to wonder: Wait, then what happens? Hv. paritaprevir The Gísli Rafn Ólafsson went over well, e.g. all the facts related to the vote. Now I don't agree with his conclusion, and I think more Pirata senators have found out about that. But that's exactly my point: We do not agree on what happens when this law of elections is all at once in our lives. There is no doubt about it, not only in the implementation of the election, but also with complete doubt as to how to interpret their various articles, as well as the great discussion that took place in a number of other arrangements. I stopped, for example. very much with one thing, perhaps because there was a certain way to me personally. It was this about suddenly being placed in a position as a newly elected senator that there is a doubt about the value of a senator's ballot letter, yet he is required to vote for the value of that letter. Of course, this is a very special arrangement. I don't feel that it's against any code of neutrality, and I think that if there's any question about any senator's ballot, he's natural about right now. The last on earth to be in position to vote for the validity of the ballot. It was one of those points that we were a little pointing to and talking about in the subsequent elections. Again, I would like to give a material witness to what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir'sdo. She mentioned that we were, of course, wondering about the last election to prevent the game from re-electing in the next election and elections afterwards. Therefore, it is very important to consider this matter very carefully and to take a little good discussion about it, both here in the Senate, and just as much as at the crime scene of the Board and Control Committee, as I know that, of course, it will be done and the decision has been made. I can't pass by, coming from the course where I am, and having the opinion of what I have, to answer to the speculations that happened by the wind. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson earlier, speaking of certain things in our government and in our constitution that are under all of this because we have a somewhat complex campaign system that comes in. ... becausewe'rein my opinion of a very wrong arrangement when it comes to having all the voters in the country sit at the same table - and that's a different vote. I'm not going in the context of talking just about the difference in terms of where people live in the country. Of course, it can also be taken out of the fact that our campaign system is not compatible between those who voted in the election and the conclusion and then reflecting the strength of the council here. Of course, it makes me feel even more serious in this regard to the fact that I can totally understand some based principle as a basis for conflicting votes, although I do not agree with it, but that we have a system that makes it happen, and there's some conclusion coming out of the polls, and it doesn't even reflect on who the Senate is in the House after these elections, that I feel completely crazy and particularly ambiguous and serious. Well, there's a lot of experts that says it's easy to fix. It has been attempted, but somehow it has been knocked off the table and treated as if something was trivial. But after the last election, only the advance team, like... one seat too much, and the independence party one too small. Of course, we can't have this. I can understand the argument that there is some based basis behind the idea that there are differences of opinion based on where people live in the country. I couldn't agree, but I understand where people are coming from. However, this process of re-election does not directly reflect the tribunal rank of democratic elections, it is completely incomprehensible, especially because it calls for no constitution to go through it all. Just in the end, I'd like to underscore what I'm saying: We're not supposed to take it as a result that our democracy is always all right in this country. We need to nurture it. We need to keep on the watch, and when we have these events, such as they were after the election, and then we see this conclusion from the head of the Westland last night, where this discrepancies appear between the terms of the election as valid as those of those of today, we must, of course, take that decision a little further and make a lot of effort. The doubting of a game in the election's final election is very harmful. Similarly, when discussing these things in law, it is most unpleasant and hurtful that we need to be sticking something over or often wear these things simply because the face of these objects is not reassuring. It's just that way. It is not enough that democracy works, it must also seem to work. It's the same way when we put a law on the elections. If we're always wearing some Band-Aids and putting some conventional patches on something that has been missed or that doesn't work out, it's just that people can start to distrust the system. I think we should take it seriously, and we should take the time to handle these matters carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson over an interesting talk, and there are things I would like to agree with in his speech. New events, uninterrupted election laws, have shown us that here in our little innocent Iceland, things can truly happen to corruption and I'm just gonna say bad things, which I think many of us have never been able to believe. What I'm referring to here is persecution of journalists whom we've seen recently who just become more and more amazing as more details become evident. This shows that even if we are quite innocent and trust each other and all of this, these things can happen. We need to be aware of this. I just want to mention this provision, which was now canceled against individuals responsible for the election in the northwestern district, the total election in September, a case that was somewhat compliant when it was begun. It was about their obligation to seal the data by counting, and it was not done. In itself, there is no great doubt, and no question at all, but they certainly decided not to confess to counsel their lawyers whom we can think I agree today that they have been the right choice on their part. The importance of legislation is reflected in this. I wondered whether even if this law had been placed, which is not yet available and does not establish a legal basis to punish the people as the situation is, if there was a possibility of punishing them when there was no legal warrant. But then the question I would like to direct to the senator. [[The president calls.]] He mentioned that he was a campaign officer in Russia. I find that very interesting. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it was something where he was surprised that he would think there would never be a problem in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is what Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir is doing for the counter and the question and meditation all about it. I'm glad we're discussing this a little bit active here right now on this occasion. Of course, I always get started only when we speak of journalists, and especially when we mention persecution in that context. It's the same with our democracy, as with the press, that we have to realize that we can't do things that make sense. The fact that we are a people of peace, that we are a democracy, and a nation that enjoys freedom of expression is not a guarantee that everything will go our way. A recent example of opposing journalists in the context of one of the so - called Samherian languages is, of course, one of the things that put us on the position that we should never take in any given position when it comes to the law of law thinking laws and then how the administration of the authority will exercise power and even in my opinion, as the situation is now, some kind of bypass to bring in guilty or at least give them the defendant's rights. But in general about the question about my own Russia and my being there is quite a long time ago but it still sits strong in me, that feeling, so I repeat it, what interesting it was to observe a nation that did not have this great democracies tradition and we've walked to the optimal table, and especially how the talk went forward, and then, of course, the follow-up where the details were done, and made comments in the careers of the election. [[The president calls.]] This experience, coming from Iceland and being there in this situation, impressed me, and I was very grateful to live on our land, and then I would never have believed that we would have experienced anything like what happened in the city of Berlin, although, of course, I am not comparing it to the government in Russia. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u90	The President reminds me of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u91	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It would be wish to be shorter on the team, this is extremely interesting, and perhaps more interesting to you today, when we have developed a lack of democracy and human rights in that state than perhaps on a day - to - day basis. The bill behind these laws that we are making changes here was a member of the Parliament's Committee, and it produced a bill that I believe was in many respects good and valid. It suggested that the changes in points that I can't see had any reason to change, or as I mentioned in my talk earlier, were suggested to change things that may not have to change, and that may have caused certain things to wash out, as did events in the past days. At the original bill, e.g. suggestion that before setting his vote in the vote boxes, the person will get a label from the voter to the vote before inserting it in the box and if he forgets it, the vote is invalid. There we would be talking about changes in elections, as we're used to. We also come to realize that we're a democracy, used to the election, and here's a big campaign party, and there's something else. But there's a lot of things out there that raise concern. A total of 65 changes were made. There were 65 changes simply based on the majority of the management and monitoring committees prior to the completion of the bill and the changes proposed and not approved. I'd like to ask you what. A senator only into what we are facing after the election in the fall regarding our Constitution and the likely decision from the European Court of Human Rights, whether the Senator considered how it played in the legislation we now have and how we work to correct it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u92	The president continues to remind you of the time to speak. This is the fourth in a row where it is 30 seconds ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for his inquiries and speculations. When she was later opposed, one thing came to mind, because the first time I was asked if I remembered something special from the U.S. election board in Russia. Of course it is that when you're in campaign service, you can't interfere with anyone, you can just watch and even if you see some sort of campaign break in front of your eyes, you can't take it, just look and record it. But one thing that came back to me was, for example, that people would go to the booths together that could not be, whole families together, and other things. But there may also have been explanations for the reading, such as. not as general as here as people just needed instructions in this process everything that was going on then, so I'm going to rip it up too. Of course, with the work ahead, there are a lot of questions left. I've wanted to approach this discussion today, not to be necessarily pointing out something or looking for guys who are guilty or wondering seriously where exactly things have been wrong or not. My point is, when we get this in our arms yesterday into this case that we have today, we can't throw it into our hands. All we need to do is get over how we're going to play this thing and I hope a government and surveillance committee will do it with force and know that it will be. How possible treatment of the European Court of Human Rights for the cases we were discussing earlier will be and how the whole thing will smell - I don't trust to tell you. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is a huge question that hangs over us all the time for the work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u94	Mr. President. Listening to what has been very interesting. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, who has not only been sent to a state of election but who is also in trouble, may allow us to doubt the reality of democracy. The administration and monitoring committee that has been covering the issues we have here today. It was undeniably noted and a bit of panic yesterday when it became evident that there had been a mistake, apparently, in paying off the election laws that took effect at the end of the last year when there is some doubt about sealing and what the consequences of the shortage of seals have been, and how to respond. I've wondered a bit, because I've not seen any changes in the committee's proposal, much more or just the Committee itself, whether there was no mention in the committee. I realize that this case we're talking about right now, it's got to be approved today because of the local election, but is it so complicated that we can't put in this narrus for the election this spring? I'm actually saying this for the reason that I'm worried that we won't have to make the changes we have to make to make sure our elections go on in the way we have to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala veg Helgadóttir very much for the inquiries and put in the whole thing. Yes, this was one of the reviews to the meeting of the Committee this morning, i.e. whether we should insert the word seal into a specific legal paragraph to make them some fence, to ensure that everything would go according to the rules of the election as we would like to vote. After a little discussion and conversation with a guest, it was appreciated that this may not be necessary to make any changes. But just like what's-his-face. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdóttir Gunnarsdóttir came in here in his speech and went much better at that hymn than I did earlier is this question, of course, what is in the law and what is to be in the law. I understood the answers so that in order to simplify the legislation, it was deliberately done so that it could be done more with the rights of the law than with the practical factors in the Regulation. When we're talking about things like therapy, when we're talking about things like a seal, what you're doing with the cool data, how you're killing them, how all of them are, and all of this, and after the experiences of what happened in the northwestern district after the last election, you wonder if they have any more things in the law than in the law. I think it's a lot of thought. I'm not gonna decide what I'm about to do. I'd like to take a very careful look at this myself with my partners at the Board of Directors and Control Committee. Whatever it is. A senator is moving on as a very important point, and we must not fall into any conclusions or assume that it is by default that it belongs in a Regulation rather than in the law itself, because we want the law to be simple and understandable if in some way it makes it possible for some sort of mess to be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and would like to say that I am concerned about this attitude on the committee. The public can definitely pick up their rights and fight for them, and there is a plan about who can choose and the like, which are these rights we're talking about and how to do so. But that is exactly what seems to be the weakness of our democracy. There are a number of cases, and there were always more and more when this northwest district fever was under discussion, about the lack of efficiency. And unsatisfy because this has always been the case. It was very interesting to hear of the committee meetings, and I noticed during a conference discussion, that it seemed as if in some places it were form, carried out, just completely overcrowded, and was very subjugated during other places, as the faces e.g. We from the Northwestern district, have been made just somehow. Then you wonder: " Isn't there the danger? Now I've also been in campaign check, I was in White Russia, and there was the exact procedure of the election, when the voter comes and votes, it was all right, but when it came to counting votes, ends of, making sure that everything was right, that there were as many votes as there were votes and votes, etc., things went to hell. Then you say, " Isn't it supposed to be a clear code of law, and you can't cut anything out? ' [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking why aren't we adding this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vólvógvótta so much, and I don't really disagree in my own way. I thought that at the meeting, and we talked about it. I asked specifically about this. It was mentioned, for example. that a seal of the word could be added to you in 99. g., which says: The Council of Ministers appoints a Regulation, in accordance with the proposal of the national Election, including for the implementation of general elections, treatment of conflict tips, management of suffixes and marketing records and for the availability after a count, including on the destruction of terms and other data Putting the word in there would make each of us feel a little better. However, it was evaluated that it was not needed and that, by proper regulations, it might not be a serious possibility that it would become something in the next election. I think we're all on the page wanting things to come over again. I just allowed myself to put my trust in the experts who were there before the committee and thought maybe there was no reason to go all the way, at least Right here, right now. But then the committee is about to proceed with this, and I wondered, when it's being divided up like this, on the other hand, by some Nazi who is supposed to be in the Regulation and then perhaps about certain rights and such things, that, of course, it's part of our rights to be treated exactly as follows. Regarding our weaknesses, of course, it was tried in the northwestern district, but there are also weaknesses in our legislation, and there are certainly weaknesses in our constitution. That's why I just want to stress that when we're talking about democratic things, we're never supposed to rush into things. We're supposed to be careful, and we can't be wearing Band-Aids forever. As I said earlier in my speech: "When we're always having patches on an election, it's devoid of confidence in the process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be the code of law that would continue to be stopped and stopped. This is not reassuring, so somehow we must make things better. - I want to thank you. A senator very much for his exchange of opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u98	A respectable president. I think that when we're discussing the bill that's here for the treatment so close in time to the recent elections and the problems that came up there, there's just every reason to discuss the election's terms and how it works. I wanted to discuss that our current U.S. election system can and has actually yielded a conclusion that does not fully reflect the will of voters and then discuss the question, What is the significance of voters' votes? And, of course, perhaps first, with the incredible merry-go-round carotting that started with the Northwestern reelection, the effect that the re count had on other districts, all of this, I feel that it all underscores the defects of the election system. Of course, it's an old story, and the new drama may have become clear to all of us when amazing consequences came to light. As a feminist, I would say that it was somehow so grudging when the glass roof broke, but it then turned out to be not so, it was one of the manifestations, and then this confidence and shape, which has been discussed here today, of course, were cut. I wanted to say that after the 2013 General election, 2016, 2017, and again after the last election, the strength of a group at the Council was not in harmony with their agreement, and certain groups have been given more voters than voters, support to voters, real loyalty to them. This, and there I think I'm saying the obvious, of course, includes that the council does not reflect fully the will of voters. In this regard, I would like to talk about it, now that we're correcting or winning this bill, that many wonder why these errors have not been fully corrected. This is understandable criticism and rightfulness, but it does not apply to all the council. It is true of the governments because it was proposed to deal with this justice. We made a suggestion, with Leví Gunnarsson and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, after the granting of a new election law had been proposed by the then president of the Council, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, where there was not a single attempt to ensure that the level of Congress would be more consistent with the will of voters. I felt so special about it in my own eyes that although the election bill was given a fancy lawsuit in the council, it still needed some part of it that it was handled entirely by half the other part, from the three governments. It was not that the council did not have time or that point was missing. This point was discussed, and the adjustment of our three groups, representatives of three sides of a government stand, was made. It was given a vote by representatives of the greater part and, indeed, by the Middle Order, that political lines on this fundamental issue and on the issue of justice became much clearer and light for votes. I find it a reason to remind you here in this hall that the result involves the support of the greater part of continuing to have a huge imbalance between voters. The proposals before the council were twofold, and I'm going to go over them a little. This, on the other hand, was a proposal for the proliferation of an equation - model to ensure that groups would receive members in full accordance with the number of votes and, on the other hand, a proposal for an equation of votes, which is then between terms. It is the adjustment proposal that contributes to an increased equality between voters. In the past, a group of reveries had provided a special bill on the equal degree of votes, but nothing made it, could escape the committee, which is now a fairly classic fate for the prime of the memory of the part. I realize that this discussion is delicate, but it is in spite of all the fact that the equalness of the vote by the court is human rights, e.g. Based on the assessment of the ESE, the European Safety and Cooperation Organization, and the Venetian Committee. In this discussion the question of human rights is forgotten. Of course, because of the division of countries and the provincial situation, there will never be a cut - off vote, nor will it be the goal. The question is simply about how much disorder can be and how far it can go to avoid violating people's human rights. There has been reports that there may be a 101⁄215% difference between terms. In Iceland, the difference is almost 100% where he is the greatest. The Constitution assumes that the strength of members of Congress is in line with that of the country, and it is then the role of the Generals to implement this campaign goal. It is therefore remarkable that when the World General Act of New elections was being treated at the General Assembly, it was completely clear from the majority of the sections, by the 3 categories, by the independent party, forward group, and left green, that this was not to be moved in any way, although the Constitution itself refers to the strength of members of Congress to be in line with their country. The General is given the task of implementing this procedure. The government chose not to do so. As I say, the debate on the balance of votes is delicate, but I also think it has to be viewed as being two. On the one hand, we are discussing the equality of the classes; however, it is a matter of voters. Strangely, voters in the country are concerned about their position. I have great sympathy for these worries, but their votes would not change, although it was guaranteed that each party would be in full harmony with the party. It is the other matter, in terms of the equalness of votes by the home, which would reduce the number of the local Parliaments, but not as much as they are spoken of as given the discussion. There I sometimes feel that I can identify a certain form of gas, which is not related to the discussion that begins when we discuss the seabed, when people don't want a fishing system because we have an opinion of the payment. At times, it is spoken of as if by a nest, in effect, all members of the country would come from the southwest corner. Is that a claim? For one thing, such a conclusion to me would be completely indefinable with regard to human rights. But there is no reason to expect that to happen. Why? Because the Constitution dictates, the highest legal authority in the country, that each individual district should have at least Six elected senators. All the districts of this country are protected in our highest legal rights that the members of the district can never be less than six. Today, members of the Northwestern District are members of the 8 Parliament. The balance rate is more than 100% between the Northwest and the Southwestern district. Prior to the next election, the Norwegian-West District Parliaments will be reduced from seven in accordance with the national constitution. Would it be possible to fully balance the game within the framework of the constitution, what will happen then? The members would be six, they would decrease by one more, so, of course, there is no provisional, deliberate misdirection of this discussion and this justice to speak in a way that individual regional terms should not be given at the council here. Why is this discussion of the matter today? In fact, I'm thinking that we should be discussing this here in this council hall every day until this situation is corrected. Voteers, e.g. in the Southwestern district, the incorrigib reality that their vote is, in effect, half and full of voters, would have the effect that the members of the country's settlement would be 23 or 24 instead of 27. This situation cannot mean in any way that the region no longer has special spokesmen at the council. In fact, I think it would be good for all of us to think that we are all members of the country and all of the council members of the capital, we are members of Iceland. I came up here just to remind you, because we were doing this bill for the last spring, after a lot of fine work, that this discussion on the balance of votes was certainly done at the council. We certainly saw the attitude of individual senators, Ministers, and political parties toward this matter. I wanted to make this right, because I feel forgotten during the discussion, that the regulations of the Constitution allow us to balance the game with the voters, though protected from the districts of the whole country, that each member of Congress will never be fewer than six people, that the balance of votes is about how much the balance of the votes can be. In spring there was a suggestion to correct this injustice. The three government groups rejected this and voted by maintaining this imbalance. What does that mean? Once again the results of the voter's wish are not fully respected when we go to appoint members after the election is completed. That's not healthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the speech, which was quite informative and kind. I remember very much the adjustment proposal that took place. A senator spoke of what was put forward during the last term when the election law was passed that was about to match the vote of the country so that we all sit at the same table, voters on no greater country than Iceland. At that time, like a snooze. A senator went thoroughly over, were the governments afraid of it. It can be understood as hell. The Prosecutors and the Independence Party have not been willing to balance the severity of the two categories, since they are, for one thing, the most profiting of the fact that the words of a vote are so inconspicuous. A person, though, is concerned only about what causes him to slow down. Councilmen of the left green also agree with this view, since this group has now been exposed to fewer members of the council than was recommended. But that's the way it is when people are in maintenance, and they don't ever vote for government or change, that's how it goes. But I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament: Is it possible to submit this adjustment now for a vote in this particular case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u100	Thank you. A senator for the question and these views. At one time, I felt that it was very important to get a vote on this subject. That was the most important, and I'm going to be completely honest with it, the attitude of the individual members of the Independence Party, who talk about the fact that this is human rights, but it may never be the time to correct this injustice. The senators would just have the opportunity to show their will by their vote. Of course, you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that in the historical context, there are certain categories, the two classes mentioned, which have benefited from this imbalance. You might say in relation to slogans like that. The Company's enterprise, whether it's best to vote for advance, doesn't even have to vote for application. However, the party receives members of Congress. But, yes, I would do well to do that. I believe it is important that this matter be discussed and that we are now in the discussion with these matters and that we are able to reveal the will of the council and of the government in action. But I'm going to share it with what. A senator I believe is more likely to act in exactly the same way as last time, but it should be to us all irreverently to run it a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In effect, I asked if she thought it was possible, now that the clock is ten minutes for six on Tuesday, to present the same adjustment proposal again. There is no need for long reporting with the adjustment, but the proposal was not very complex. It's been configured. You can do such work in a short time. I would be curious to see what such a vote would be like today. It's been chosen again. Whether it is the right feeling or not, the individual body of directors is more independent. Would it not be worth trying to test whether a greater part of the United States is prepared to match the vote of all elected individuals regardless of their location? Wouldn't it be worth trying to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's true what it says. This proposal is in place. We made this suggestion together with Thorsson, the son of Thors. We won it well, I'd like to allow myself to say, so I'm not afraid to test the council's will on this matter. Again, I'm going to let myself declare that I don't share the senator's optimism on the outcome, but I'm sure it's good that a man should vote and do his will in the event that happens. Still, the big thing in my mind was simply reminding me that in months it was assumed that this proposal was treated and that it was being treated at the council, and it was strong, I thought, in part, that there was no time. But we had an overall review of these legislation. You can go this way right through the election law. The Constitution does not have to be relevant, so there was time, space, and circumstances. Work lay ahead. The adjustment proposal was in place. Sadly, the position of the greater part and of the three government groups became light, and we still live with the same government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u103	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for reviewing this adjustment proposal, which was put forward to balance the vote a year ago. I'd like to add that it was not only the three government groups that opposed it but also the members of the Central Party. As often as they wanted to be during the last term when they looked for some progress in the changing proposals or matters here in the hall, there was an increased proportion of governments plus a central class that stood in place. I'll admit we sat together on a board of administrations and monitoring committees, me and what. A senator, on the last winter, and I would like to believe that the committee has done a good job in the changes made because the criteria were set that we should always take steps toward a voter's ability to express his opinion and will. It was the most sacred purpose that we were going to pursue, in effect, all the adjustments. That is why I feel almost sad to think that a change in a voter's will, as if it appeared on a national scale, was reflected in the percentage of members of the council here in the hall being dropped because it was too political, but we should be looking at technical refinements. As it turned out, when people began playing with surveys in the process of campaigning, it became apparent that the technical in this context was just a basic political matter because in a number of surveys, one and even two additional members of this system were classified as making up one and even two extras.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with him that I felt that a board of executives and monitoring committees in their work at this bill are doing a good job and that I was pleased that the Chairman of the Committee, I think they were two in the season if I didn't forget - gave a lot of pride that this case would have the exact time, good and meaningful discussion and discussion. Like what? That is exactly what one senator mentioned was the point of expressing the voter's will and increasing access, making people easier and easier to choose. We know how the numbers are in Iceland and around the world about participation in elections. But this was the silent exception. Hv. A senator no doubt also remembers that this point, of balance, was never discussed on the part of the section. For the committee there were reporters who told them and asked: "Why isn't this case being discussed? I'm what? A senator also agreed that exactly the technicality was then found to be a slave, a strong political one. Of course, the rules reflect some ideologies, the rules reflect someone's will, and the will was at the time to defend the districts and at the same time defend the voter's will. Since then, this imbalance has become dramatic and in the wrong direction, but the principle continues to serve the same will, reflecting the attitude of the greater part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u105	Mr. President. I think, at the end of the day, election laws may just be systemic, but they also have politics in them. The most important examples we know are the access barriers built up, e.g. In the United States, which is only technical obstacles causing certain groups to reach an ideal location. These are usually low income, they are people who are not white; these are people who are not in a strong position in the community. In the United States, these people are not forbidden to vote, but they make it a little technically difficult to do so. That is why the law in our laws is so beautiful that the legislatures far away to count every vote. I'd like to mention, as I've done before, my favorite law in these laws, which was also my favorite law in the old law, because it remained. It is a preliminary law that deals with the rights of people who were Danish citizens in Iceland when Iceland gained independence from Denmark. They held rights here as though they were some of the Icelandic citizens. It was part of the national divorce agreement. These people have the right to vote with an Icelandic citizen who is very unusual. According to national records, in 2019 three voters were relevant to this law. We have a law of elections that covers three voters. They'd fit here. Of course, we have this law because every vote is important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u106	A respectable president. After all, it was. I'm going to admit to being such a boring lawyer that when you talk about things being legal, it's annoying. It's like saying to a social scientist: Oh, it's just a methodology. Or to a engineer: Is this not mere carrier tolerance? Or whatever word they use today. These are the guidelines for teaching how things should work, and they are set for a purpose and purpose. This technology may not always be particularly fun, but it serves a purpose. There's just a little bit of this to think of the law as a rule for all of us. Of course, there is always a measure of interest or balance. This conversation about running a case off the table because it's legal is also often a cover - up for taking a certain matter over the program. That's why the rules need to be examined as well. A senator does this by examining e.g.: When selected, does it affect different groups of people in the community which day of the week is chosen? Could it be that such neutral rules differ from those of different ethnic groups in the community? This may be e.g. that there is a difference between age and even gender whether it is appropriate to choose on Saturday or on an active day? It is not a coincidence, I think, that the United States concluded that it would be a good idea to choose on Tuesdays and to have the adventurous long rows at their establishments, so the working man has a great deal of trouble choosing. [[The president calls.]] Impartial and technical rule, it serves a purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u107	Madam President. I would like to pick up the thread that had been abandoned in a talk. paritaprevir The living Þorbjörg of Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir, put the matter in a historical context, and especially in the light of our heritage as old as the Old German Party. In Valdimarsson, I discussed only a remarkable bill, which Héðinn delivered by our leader, The Hindrimsson. The Héðinn realized that the right to vote is human rights, and it did not distinguish any particular distinction between a vote and a different vote. He viewed both as violating the concept of human rights upon which a democratic government order is based. Of course, there is more than one way to ensure balance. The simplest, but perhaps the most controversial, is making the country one outstanding example. This is what Jón Baldvinsson, the first member of the Democratic Party, suggested when he served as a representative of the Governing Body for the ultimatum that served from August 1931 to February 1932. - I'm gonna ask for silence in the hall. Jón believed that by making the country as much as an average, it was accepted on the level of voters to influence the order of Generalis wherever they lived in the country. Then the general members of the council will appear to represent themselves for a certain number of squares of more and less barren lands, glaciers, and deserts, they will represent the people, representing the people, the people who live in the land. This is what Jón Baldvinsson wrote. The common people fought hard to see that the land would become one outstanding example until 1959, when the sect actually agreed to its present system of terms as a means of reconciliation. Yet, that reconciliation was always going to reach the goal of a voter and a senator's grant. That was always the goal. Law-changes in 1987 were further opposed to differences in votes and then 1999, when changes in constitution were made, the Council can easily increase equations with a simple change in election law, I think it's 8 g. current election law. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir pointed out earlier in the constitution that equations should be distributed between political organizations so that each body can get a member of the Parliament in full agreement with its total standard. That eightr. The vote I mentioned earlier made it enough for all elections to ensure the complete separation between classes during 1987/2009. This has been pointed out by Ólafur Þ. Harðarson, a political professor. In fact, during the last four elections, however, this clear goal of the constitution has been violated. In any case, there have been more members of the council than they were. It's because of too few equationarians, so there's still a very serious error in the area that's very important to correct. It has been discussed with the review of a new proposal, which was put forward during the last terms, and I think that there's a whole case, if not now, that we're going to test it again at the next year to change the election law to get clearly where the senators stand in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u108	Madam President. I only wanted to, because the discussion developed into this aggressor that appeared to us over and over after the election here in Iceland, saying something. I took this into account in my first talk, but after that they've both come in, why? The members of the Council of Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir and Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson only want me to say something. This is naturally precisely so, so that in 2013 and 2017, the advance of one Senate seat was too much compared to what the team's national policy was - and now I am quoting directly from an article written by Þorkell Helgason. No one knows more about this than he does. He also noted that the Independence Party that lost in the last election of this agglomerate received extras in 2016. So they say: The Independence Party is to be with one man more now, and the forward party is to be one less. I was going to mention this in the context of the 2016 elections because that's when the suicide party gets more than it belongs to one man. If this were to be divided equally, we would take the votes of the people of the country and so share them evenly that it would be reflected in the council strength, which does not happen here after the election. On this one man who, in reality, was not to go to the Independence Party, the 2016 Government could be formed with one person more. So it's not like there's just some kind of inadequacy. This can actually affect the kind of government in the country. In this case, Reunion took part in a government community service with the Independence Party, so attitude, my party, was a member of this government. Of course, this does not change injustice. What I'm trying to stress is that it doesn't matter exactly which category we're in, where we come from, what ideals we have in politics, where we want to go, how we see Iceland for ourselves in the future, we're all here in this hall--it's just so remarkable--consisting that the classes are supposed to have a titre of the votes they're getting out of votes at the end of elections. That this has so often gone differently in recent elections and was tried to correct, not to agree, that words do not follow in all cases. I'm just gonna keep it right here that when we're in some way involved in elections, democracy, or the implementation of votes, it's very important to keep this point up because it's incredibly reasonable, which can be of great importance to the development of democracy in the country. And I also have to contend with what I mentioned in my earlier talk that I have a heart - to - heart disagreement, since it should be different in terms of nationalities, i.e. That we choose not all sit at the same table as we know it all, but I understand where people come from that claim they are justified. They are then worrying about some groundwork and that certain parts of the country might be left out. So there's only certain fairness in that discrepancies, but we can put it that way, even if I don't agree with them. But in the other case, where we're talking about the classes, there is exactly no argument. It's just that, from A to O, when we're now in this discussion, wondering where we're going to go on over this whole thing, it's something I think we should keep in mind. You don't change your opinion on that, even if my outfit in its time formed a government out of its error. We have to fix this. We must be more reasonable when considering these things. It was just what I wanted to hold up here in my second speech on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u109	Madam President. I want to thank you. A member of the council here discuss this transitional arrangement in equal numbers and in terms of elections. What is it now, four general elections in a row that have not been cut between classes? Sounds like something to me. A senator is in the same place. I understand the logic of people's claims that there is no equal balance between elections. I believe, however, that the solution to how we balance terms between terms is not that there are more voices out of smaller votes than that of a relative population, but that we are going to serve in the districts and that we just live better on them. Increasing election is not a solution to the problem that I just agree with people about being there. On the other hand, I am forbidden to understand how anyone can think of anything other than that the number of members of each party should be next to the number of votes the party received in the elections. It may not be all about a government that was supposed to be redesigning after this election anyway. The problem of this year was that one candidate was obtained at the expense of an independent man. So these were the government's mess but not the source of government control and opposition. But I may be wondering the same question that I could hear. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgadótttótttir to be with us earlier today: Does the senator believe that the landscape here in the hall is something else today, but it was less than a year when the proposal was made to level it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Are the classes any better sealed today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u110	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is very impressed with the answer and the questions and speculations presented in this important discussion. Yeah, I believe the landscape is different. I'm allowing myself to hope that the discussion in the past--and then I'm talking about just the last few months, the discussion followed by elections, these endless tips that have happened about this and that men are put in the position of having to take a real stand here in this hall--may move this in the right direction. So I think there's good reason for this to be tried. In terms of the discrepancies between elections, I prefer to consider us, of course, to be members of the whole country. I'm from a Southwestern district, from the town of Garden, actually, living in Reykjavík, but I don't feel that this is how I'm committed to these areas when it comes to votes at the council. I mean, I'm supposed to run to shore. I'm supposed to be headed west into Isafjörður, and I'm supposed to be the source of Skagga. We all have some connections to land, and our roots are very often there, and these are areas that we love. I want it all over the country. I want to make extensive travel across the country and for employment to thrive there and elsewhere. I think any concern is that the equation of terms between terms of elections will lead to some bad news or will not be too much for the better of the country. I feel that the democratic status, the equality of the people when it comes to elections and democracy, is a key factor in this and is more important than the rest of us all are members of the whole country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u111	Madam President. I think the most fun news I read of myself, so I'll start off with the self-centered notes, is the ones that appear in the Southnian newspaper that always starts with the words: Jónsson Ingónsson, Generalist of Hjögbol, Alfusi. You see, we are all rooted everywhere. I grew up in a country myself. Hv. A senator and the town dweller are at the west side of the fjord. We're too little of a country to be able to afford to have a snorkel path. We should be able to work together, but we also need to recognize that they have not worked well enough, and that in spite of the wrong votes. Although the Westerners have taken over a number of members of the Parliament for decades, it has not been surprising how the State operates in that part of the country for decades, in effect, just in the opposite direction. Not everything is given to members of the district if they are then making little changes in the way the district works. With good reason to try to see if today's Congress is better off improving the equation of the campaign system? Yes, I think we could give it a try, but I wonder if we should, perhaps, to reduce the pain and make it easier for the senators who might be able to hide behind the fact that this was one vote on these two things - Ólafur Harðarson pointed to it further -- to have a vote on it in two ways, on the other hand, between classes, that we all must agree on, and on the other hand, the equation between the ballots, which I can quite understand people are having a problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u112	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir And Andrés Ingi Jónsson from Hjög Bolol, in Alfusa very much for a fine speech and a good point into all of this. He moved on a very important point - just nameing the West in the Northwestern district - where the next election will reduce the number of members. One goes from there to the southwestern district. I hope I'm not making any mistakes. No, I'm right. It must have been different. Nonetheless, like a dog. A senator mentioned, if any part of the country has had trouble and may have had a slight share, and that is true of the West. I think this strong argument has given us quite a chance that the discrepancy we live in today is not going to serve its purpose. There are other and more targeted measures that need to be taken. Perhaps this has made us too much behind this organization as some sort of remission of sins in failing to care for certain areas of life. I know this is a very delicate matter. Of course, we have seen that in Eastern Europe, people have missed that they are missing elected representatives from that area at a council or that they were allowed to be more unfashioned. I understand all of this. Equality of votes, or at least The balanced importance of votes puts it upon our shoulders, which we, of course, should always bear in mind here at the council, that we are members of the Parliament for all the people of the country, our duty is to care for the whole country, and that all the decisions we make in this hall are for the benefit of the people of the country. Whether or not to vote for this in one way or two is an adjustment point, but it is certainly important in view of today's discussion to restore this to the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u113	Madam President. I'm going to start by saying that I don't think there's anything left to wait to change the terms so that sort of people get what's right for them. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson claims to understand the problem with absolute equations, even though he does not agree with it. I'm on our own that we should, of course, plan that things will be all right. However, I would like to ask myself, " Could there still be other matters to come to too? ' Of course, it would be best for us to be like Germany, which, of course, is a very many cities, rather small. Berlin is the only one that can get to top 20, I think, but if we take the top of 100, there's a hell of a lot of German cities because they're often 600 thousand to 1 million people. In other words, this is not a problem. In here we are the natural council members of the whole country, much the same as those of the national council members of the capital area, and I think we have shown it altogether. But the problem with our system is that we've only developed so much inequities. Here we go. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson earlier mentioned the HéðinnValdimarsson bill of 1927 when it is to remind the people of the capital that it was 29% of the population. Now 2020 is 65%. I'll come in later, but I'm just asking why. A senator whether he believes that there is something else that he needs to do, strengthens the service in the country to offset this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u114	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson is very much for his input. Now he mentioned that all of us agree that the law of the election should be changed and those class should receive what is rightfully theirs. You're absolutely right. I think we all agree on that, and we need to achieve that solidarity here at a vote, because this is, of course, a great deal of justice. But that's just the essence of a matter, that's what it is. paritaprevir LogiEinarsson" and "yeah." paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson also mentioned and came in first, that there is, of course, more to be done. We've been going through the decades some particular urban development that we all have to look into and worry about, and we must want to build a nest all over the country, no matter whether we live in the capital area or in the country. This has, for example, been a step toward furthering the territory throughout the country. I strongly advocate that it will be done more, just a very firm spokesman for it. Let me give you two examples. We're concerned about this in my category. We want some adjustments, for example. on the marine export system, which means that there is more access to the state box for access to the resource. We want that coin to be used to some extent and, in some respects, in very progressive ways, for the development of areas. Of course, when we're talking about farming, we're doing it because we love farmers, and we hate to see certain classes of farmers stuck in some poverty trap created by some system. So, while we're often somehow talking and driving one another out of the capital and country, we're, I think, all of us agree that we're people in this country, we want to live in this country, we want to have built all over the country. [[The president calls.]] I agree that if there is a balanced vote, it may well be imagined that there will be some decisive counter measures to keep the country's settlement at the place we want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u115	Madam President. I make it clear that I agree completely with that. The members of the council here have spoken about the fact that the present system has not really helped us well, so it is not so simple to keep it just as it is. But we're naturally experiencing a very dark trend, and Norwegians define it as a major based problem if the Oslo region becomes more than 25% of the country. We are up to 65%, and there are four countries that are in the same place outside the Vatican and some small country, that is Djibouti, Africa, Panama, Mongolia, and Kuwait, none of the countries that we would like to compare ourselves with. I'm pointing out that it's not just about people's numbers. It's about how people can work at all possible things where they want to, and now we've just got such an exorbitant magnet here in the capital area. There are so many people who move here, people who go to college and educate themselves in all kinds of specialities, who don't move to Reykjavík because they want to move to Reykjavík, they move to Reykjavík because they have to move to Reykjavík. Of course, we have seen health care for a necessity change somewhat with the focus to this major hospital. We have thought it would be wise to have the courts, the Council, the university, the greatest cultural institutions in this place because we are a small nation in a large country. But I just reiterate the question: We can change it with balance categories, but we think it's a problem. A senator did not need that we, at the same time, have to make a targeted effort to become in Akureyri and in the east and west at least. The services, the opportunities for employment, and the institutions that enable us to get more balance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u116	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the Logi of Einarsson. I couldn't agree with you more than I thought. I want to work on all the years I can put up with so that people don't have to move out of their communities, not because they don't want to live there, but because they can no longer live there because they can't live there because of some sort of job or some other outside situation that they can't handle. It's just heavier than tears. I just try it on myself, if I was suddenly in the position of not being able to live where I want to live because of something like that. Of course I would. Me, for example. Remember, I'm just calling it because we're talking about this, when we were talking about that it wasn't shoveling the road on the beach and in Aarnesfjords. Then I heard some people talking in there who thought it was strange that there should be too much going on because there were few in it and maybe it didn't matter. What an amazing attitude! What we need to do in all this discussion is to try to adjust ourselves to the circumstances of these people, as it were. A senator is doing. Do we want to keep it so that people need to flee where they want to live? No, we don't want to. There's nothing to talk about in the construction that forces us to that direction and all talk to see if there are any groups or members of Congress or something like that, I know why. A senator isn't referring to it, I'm just talking about in general, if you're against a country or against some particular profession, of course not. So I repeat the answer: Yes, I am willing to subject myself vigorously to doing everything in my power so that people can live and work where they want to live and work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u117	President. I want one important or two more important things to do here during the discussion and this is about the coverage we received from the collapse of the Northwestern Summit. There is no discussion of the council, reports, reviews, or anything like that, suggesting that it was the intention of the council to change things about the laws that would be appropriate because of the failure of an election. It is a joy to see Karl Gauti Hjaltason, former U.S. Marshal, continue to sue this case in favor of the district attorney and become interesting to see it. If there's nothing in the current law that gives the Northwestern district police reason to continue the case, it's strange, because there would actually have to be a clear definition, or discussed, in some way, that this part would be being changed. In all the discussion and reviews of report, etc. is just about how to simplify the ability to adapt the individual aspects of an election's raw implementation without the need to enter the council to change individual conditions, e.g. About how a box should look or something like that. The security conditions for sealing and such items could be updated in a Regulation rather than a complete discussion during the council and the like. The other thing I'd like to talk about is a change in proposal, which was challenged to replay, to the campaign bill, which put it in a way that would include changing the number of members of Congress into a 36-priority seat and a 27 equation seat, i.e. Six minimum seats each of these terms should be according to a constitution, that it could not be changed without changing the constitution, but that all the other seats were really just equations and were assigned between the terms given in each of the terms. Hence, it would only be more flexible to change. This time, it may not be quite appropriate to submit this adjustment so late in the discussion, as well as to discuss the bill of the Committee. I think there needs to be a discussion on this subject, and directors need to be able to take part in that discussion well in advance. I know that if they did, they would simply come up at the vote next time and say, "We don't have time to look at it, and we don't know anything. " And then they'd just push the red button. That would probably be the excuse, of course, you should know what it's like. It's not illegal to say such a thing. The other thing I wanted to say is why. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson discussed how many members of the Parliament and these groups had received a greater than proportion of votes. If we just take the percentage of votes we share on nationally, then the Independence Party received 16 members of Congress, and he had a relative right only to 15 members of Congress, he actually got a 15-dollar vote. The media got 13 members of Congress, but they only own ten points, and then one of the equations, has many votes behind it. The other group, which is actually under the heading, is the Socialist Party, which gave no members of Congress but had the relative right of two members of the council and then brought in one member or part - office member, which should include the three members of Congress with which an independent party and a forwarding party are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u118	Madam President. I come back here because I didn't quite finish everything I wanted to say in my speech earlier. What I started to touch when the time came out turned to the purpose of this song, not the bill we're doing here today, but the bill we're changing today. In a paper with a bill to the law says, by permission of the President: It is based on the proposal of a re-election team appointed by the President of the Generals on October 24, 2018. When the bill was submitted, as it were, by the group. During the council, huge comments were made on the bill. The data returned to the management and monitoring committee at the time of review was e.g. a review from Reykjavík, which counted more dozens of notes. It may be noted that Reykjavíkurburg is a staff who is in charge of elections in this area and therefore has a high view and a great knowledge of the problems that exist in the implementation of elections. At the first view, the comment from the city of Reykjavík, e.g. they responded, what was changed, and what was not. There are some things that are quite important in this regard. I'd like only to recommence the report on the idea behind this bill that became the law we're now changing. The report says, with the permission of the president: Because of recent elections in recent years, the need for change has become increasingly apparent to those who have carried out it. The General Assembly Board has noted that a general review of the legislation on the elections to the General and has also been observed by the National Congress, which also believes that the sentence of a new total election law should be adopted. In addition, there have been comments and tips received from the Committee on Security and Cooperation of the European Commission (UME) for the national election and for the implementation of General elections in 2009, 2013 and 2017, which are mainly involved in the election's administration and will be responsible for future elections. The election is under way before the Supreme Court for the Commission and the Presidency and U.S. Marshal's Office, and solutions have been issued for the treatment of government regulations. After making decisions by the Supreme Court and the solutions of the General agent, questions have been raised about the terms of election laws against information laws, administration laws, and the laws of the U.S. Marshals' agent. It has then been noted that in other parts of the North countries, election laws have been adopted that allow the use of upcoming technologies to facilitate the implementation of elections, e.g. electronic forms and forms of various applications during the election process. Of the new ones that came along with this new law, this bill, there were many things that include enormous changes, big changes, and even complex changes in our campaigns and environment. While there is tremendous emphasis on the whole bill, the purpose of the law is the simpleness of the administration, the simplicity of the enterprise, efficiency, and so forth, there are some things that I fear that in the end will not lead to simplicity. For example, one of the bill's new words was that one of the law's terms would apply to elections in the past and that they would be suspended by elections to the Council, to local governments, and to the law on campaigns and elections of Iceland's president and the regulations for the execution of national agreements. To illustrate the problem of such simpleness, the arrangement for elections is very different from that of older law, either in rural elections or in general elections. It's all grappled up there. Here are material that I thought was important and was mentioned earlier about the importance of the campaign staff understanding the law, who has the role and who is to do what. [[The president calls.]] I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u119	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here to say thank you very much. For responding to my request to handle a case on the patient's rights, under compulsion, off schedule. I presented this case as a response to the OPCAT agent's report, as it were. The World of Congress knows and there is evidence of a lack of improvement, as it shows. But in 1st. on this matter yesterday, I also heard Generalist's call, especially on increased consultation with users in the service, patients, and their organization in a broad field. So I'd like to report to the top. President I will cancel the case and take it along in the Ministry, and will preach to people on a broad scale, especially to those who use the service, to patients and their organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u120	Madam President. I come up here to compliment the highest. Secretary of health. That was a nice move. It's always good when people see themselves, and it's particularly respectable in the case of a minister in the government of Iceland. I just want to return a compliment to the highest. Healthcare Ministers and challenges to have a serious agreement with patients, caregivers and stakeholders who watch out for patients' rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u121	Madam President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaygóttir thanks the Minister for listening to us last night and perhaps even today when we heard that the case had been taken off without its share. It's good to get this straight, not just for us who have to plan the work ahead, but for the people who are involved in this case, the patient's interest groups, the people who are fighting for human rights that, as the case shows, are violated when forced in our medical system. There's something that I hope we can divorce as soon as possible, and so that we can make it, of course, we need this advice, which I am truly glad a minister would have been, and though before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u122	Madam President. I'm here on the same mission. I thought it was a reason to come up and say thank you. A health minister particularly for this step, for taking back the bill and calling people to the table for personal and material consultation. It is always good to do so, especially in the light of the above - and - underlying interests, i.e. In view of the sensitivity of the matter. There's a lot of pain in these matters, and I think it's important, so that a welfare committee can take over and do it carefully, to the top. This is the case with a health minister. I am very grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u123	Madam President. I come up here in the same business. I want to thank you very much. Minister for giving us an ear here yesterday. I just want to point out that the comments that are likely to arise, in the form of a discussion, would include a requirement for a complete revolution on the basis of this bill. I just wanted to come here to encourage the highest. A minister to accept the comments that will open his mind and be prepared not to make any changes in wording of one or two requirements in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u124	Madam President. I'm here to thank you, too, the highest. A health minister for listening and for having the courage to make the decision to retract matters of great dissatisfaction. It would show, I'd say, a lot of maturity that we could see more in this cooperation here at the council. Government and government - we may not always disagree so much, but at times we disagree greatly. How important it is that we be ready to listen and be ready to find the golden balance! It's at the highest. A minister of great gratitude understood, and I hope that the way to listen and consult within the government will spread.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u125	A respectable president. I want to reiterate my gratitude as others have done here to the highest degree. Secretary of health. I think he's a man more than I know, knew him pretty well, that he wants to be careful with this job. This is an enormous task. There are delicate groups underneath. I find it very happy that he just retracts the matter in order to do it more in behalf of the exact voices that were calling upon us senators and asking for help. There was a call for help. I think it's the best. Ministers have shown great authority and understanding by responding in this way. But at the same time, I'd like to say, so I'll give him another compliment, that I like to be announced on the part of the Minister here from this chair. It also counts with respect to certain respect for the council and the conversation with the members of the Parliament so much as at the highest level. Government or government minister. I also want to praise the highest. Ministers for that, and I think it's a good thing to do, especially for the people we all want to work well and better for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u126	President. I'll come back and join the thank-you group. I think it's a good conclusion, and it's good to know that they are listened and listened to what is said here at the Hall and also listen to the users, listen to the voices heard, and ask for attention. But I'd like to challenge a minister. During last night's discussion, I felt that a minister suggested that there is no significant improvement, and I hope that it is not correct, that there is no conclusion. I hope that the results of this will be that we get into the council something that is greatly improved from what is today because we can use other methods, and we do not have to go in that way of being forced to do what we've been doing. I thank the Minister again and hope to see much better when he returns to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u127	President. Yes, thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for taking this matter back and reviewing it. I agree with what. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I hope this is going to be taken into complete reexamination and I hope there'll be a conclusion that we can go into Iceland's overdue, that we'll find new ways to help people who have the worst in our society. That's what we're here for. We want to find the best methods. We'd like to be informed about what we're doing and agree with the users, of course, mainly users but also professionals, and we need to look for other tickets. What's being done elsewhere, what's going on? It also takes into consideration how being under compulsion affects a person and what the cost of sacrifice is for society to apply under compulsion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u128	President. Our criticism of government opposition is really of no value if we too are not commended. Surely this is worth praising for! There's two projects at the highest. Minister, on the one hand, a review of these laws according to the indications of the Generalist, as well as the work involved in the project that has been criticized. This was made clear in the last night's work ethic, but the technical violations of human rights have not been changed yet. What is difficult is that in the presence of that tool, it is somehow easier to apply it, not look for solutions. I think, while they're making a decision, there must be a bright light that all possible solutions other than human rights violations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u129	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the surgeon's law and public health that are subject to a screening record. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health in close collaboration with the surgeon's office and the health care of the capital area. The bill means that the screening record will be one of the many medical records that the surgeon should have and be responsible under the national health and surgeon's law, No. 41/2007. This is suggested in view of the need for screening for cancer, special health care is needed to collect and maintain overall data from all over the country so that the results of screening can be checked and assessed. A respectable president. For many years, an expert in the field of economist has performed personal medical records that have played an important role in the visualization of health and health status and have provided the basis for monitoring, quality development, and research. The Commission therefore has expertise in the management of such central medical records, whether of content, information technology, personal protection or use. A screening file is a database and an information system that contains personal details on invitations, attendance and results of screens all who have been screened since the use of an electronic registry in the autumn of 2006. The system arranges a signal for appropriate persons via screening instructions and a letter is sent to individuals according to the results of the screening for each subsequent visit. Thus, this is a population-based screening in which the overall collection of data is available across the whole country and is needed to assess whether and how successful the screening is achieved. The primary objective of this bill is to explain more fully the role of an officiating surgeon in the management of screening files. A screening file differs in some respects from other medical records as the office but on the basis of Article 8. legal on surgeons and public health, No. 41/2007, to the point of direct access to the registry and the provision of the medical services of those enrolled. Since January 4, 2021, a screening registry has been temporarily fired as a common medical system on the responsibility of the national health care center of the capital. Health care is also the executive of cancerskis, as well as the National Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, as well as the privately functioning gynecologists who provide the service, register relevant information into the system, and process data from the screening registry. It was considered initially justified in hiding the health care of the capital area in the possession of the Index during the transfer of cancerskis from Iceland's cancer partner but at the same time working to replace it with a surgeon's office. A surgeon's office may be expected to develop a screening file in a rhythm with a future screening schedule. Well, now, for example. The decision to engage in anal and colonic activity has to be adapted to that decision. In the arrangement offered to be added, see paragraph 8. legal for surgeons and public health is stated that a minister has a Regulation that allows the surgeon to organize and maintain a central treatment registry on a national scale in relation to a cancer screening registry. The purpose of the registry must contribute to a coordinated, targeted, follow-up of cancerskis and improve the quality and safety of the healthcare professional. The law also suggests that a minister will be permitted to refer to the personal information permitted to collect and preserve, security measures and rights of the registered individuals. This is considered important because such practices should be clear and based on legal requirements in such cases. In sensitive personal information, it is reasonable to fear for the safety of such information. Hence, this bill was designed to make a special assessment of the effect on personal protection. The main conclusions of evaluation were that the bill did not include an increased risk for the personal protection of the registered subjects compared to the current implementation. A thorough risk assessment was conducted in relation to the changes in the cancerski system and was specifically consulted by the Peritoneal Protection of the Safety of Personal Security when the European capital Health Center received the screening registry. The surgeon's office already has processes to ensure the security of the processing of personal information and is a great knowledge and experience in the processing of the office. If this bill is legal, it is believed that the security of the processing of personal information will not be inferior but that it will lead to increased safety. This bill's not a big one. It's basically about to be replaced under this file, and I've made this article here, a respectable president, for the principle of the bill, and allow me to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u130	Madam President. For decades, screening saves lives, and fortunately, we Icelanders have been screening for the most common types of cancer in women, such as breast and cervical cancers. Earlier this year, I requested to talk about how many people are attending the screens available and came there. that there was a significant reduction in the percentage of women reported in cervical screening. In 2007, about 75% of the women arrived when they were announced, which went down to 66% in 2020. At the same time, the amount of time it took to get results from the screening took up to 35 active days, while the reference period was 15 active days, according to the Ministry's response. I want to know what the highest part is. A minister would be to examine again the level of trust in women so that they will be screened and that results are more rapid and better than they have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u131	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Rafn In order to share with him the importance of their screening and prevention, the Gisun Ólafsson agrees with him on the importance of their research. I don't know how to say it, but there was a certain understanding, which appeared in their numbers as well. A senator went over here and I know his inquiry. I think we need to stress that security is probably the most valuable concept we have in health care, and I think we must always keep in mind building the trust we have. A senator comes in here. Of course, all we have to do is let time pass and put my arms around it, and I'm getting no more information than the fact that these issues are getting into a better way. I wish these numbers would all be better at hand, as well as I would emphasize that we are about to begin here with the power of the colon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u132	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. Yes, we need to work together to build trust. It has been discussed in the community with a set of standards of age and other factors, e.g. that only 50 years of age and older are screened for screening. I especially remember a campaign that took place nearly a year ago in which women under 40 who had had cancer pointed out that breast and cervical cancer can develop much sooner than tests can be expected. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister will see if there is more to the fact that younger women can go to such screenings, especially where there is a family history.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Councilman the second question. It is very important in this context of the screening process, i.e. for which age should be considered. This discussion has been conducted throughout our history of screening and age 40 even under consideration. Also, there are theories that teach that 50 years is a good standard. I know these numbers, and I've read something about them. But I think it's now that we're talking about - I don't have these numbers in front of me -- 50 years of age, but the goal is to go lower. Maybe someone's got this information on their own, and maybe I'll find it here later, but I've got it in my head like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u134	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation on this matter. I'd like to ask about--because I think it's really good that we have a screening record so that the health authorities have some kind of perspective on services being performed and results from services being performed. Because we've been discussing a little bit of a mental health problem lately, I wondered, " Is it possible for me to expand government control of health care services that are being provided first by Peritoneal protection to say that this is in good condition because it is in the interests of patients to have some form of registration? ' Yesterday, in the General Meeting, this discussion showed that there is really no follow-up of the health system through suicide attempts or suicide risks. Then you wonder, " Is there any perspective on it, not just numbers on paper, but really what it is like to see from many health - care programs, so to speak? ' Could we expand files so that we can follow up and see what is being done and where we can do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vól Helgadóttir for this question and speculation. There was a special discussion about mental health. A senator stood before me, and if I remember correctly, there was a why. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir in this speech. Yeah, I think it's just an interesting question. In this discussion, we were studying in relation to follow-up and rehabilitation, just in general before action, and then I think it's very worthwhile. But I also think we need to watch our technology. It appears to me something so that we have a different system of personal information that we are fully trying to maintain instead of being able to rely on security all the way and to use technology much better, and in a more broad range of ways, because prevention values are screened and follow-up is so undisputed. I just think it's a very good tip from a reason. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u136	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think that was the password as the highest. Minister brought in, the one with the preemptives. That's where we're trying to step in to miss less. That is why we are screening, trying to grab as soon as possible into the primary stage of cancer, and we should be able to do this in a much wider way. I just got an answer today from the highest. Healthcare Minister for my inquiry for the health care monitoring of a surgeon. It says that the office should over 25,000 health care professionals, of whom 19,000 are under 70 years of age and enrolled in Iceland, and of over 3,300 U.S. There are two levels that monitor this health care, two status values. [[The president calls.]] So I wondered, " Could it be that we should step in until we are doing the full - time service? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u137	V.E.G. President. Only to understand the prevention value and the data collection at screening. I made it clear in an entrovert that this was a population-based screening, but then the overall collection of data is needed. Perhaps the most important factor in evaluating the results is the ability to do so. Perhaps the point is that we too are going to look at not only the patient file that records the name, home, and social security number but the results of the screening process. That's what we have to look to. And then I'll just admit that I was reading these answers that are made by the Ministry expert and that I stopped at that point and thought, "Here's a nickname to see what performance we have to keep on real surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u138	Madam President. Because of the importance of health care screening for cancer, it has been shocking to observe for a recent year and a half of the damage to this system's service. It was decided to transfer the cervical samples from the country, to a Danish laboratory, without even asking the Land Hospital at the time if he could handle this. And then it turned out that the Landsspike had all the equipment and no problem, he could do it. This would have prevented many sleepless nights from waiting for the results. It would even have saved someone from being diagnosed too late with cancer. But okay, now it's looking for a better start. In my report, I explain that it is said that it was considered justified at first to hide the medical department's operating screening files while the transfer was taking place. Right-to- wrong? Does this mean, then, that for the last year, a screening record has been expelled without adequate legal grounds and that now, more than a year after the transfer of this business to the public, is building the correction? I would have only assumed that if the Ministry had worked on the basis of analysis and estimates, it would have been the first verse before everything was set in motion. So I'd like to ask, Madam President, why on earth is this coming now and not before one and a half years ago, before the last. A health minister allowed everything into the fire in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u139	V.E.G. President. First, I want to say the word with the question. A senator saying that I have similar faith that this is on my way to a much better course. That is in accordance with what happened. paritaprevir This is Gísli Rapon Ólafsson. I bear in mind that the most valuable thing we have in health care is security on both sides, on those who render service, and on those who accept the ministry. That's a very good question. A senator is coming with us. What are we really doing with this bill? The file is not being modified as such, but it is being registered. It is almost possible to ask, " Why did the surgeon's office not just take over? ' This was worked so that the office can be responsible for the registry needs to set this resolution. It's coming out, like a snooze. A senator pointed out. Since it was not time to complete the case in this way, this route was beginning to run the screening record as a central medical registry. The surgeon general gives health care to the capital area for the screening registry to agree with Perone Protection. This temporary arrangement was fired as a specific medical system that has to do with cancer screening. The surgeon general and health care of the capital area agreed on that office to receive hosting, business, development, and service to the registry. According to this agreement, the office began to run the screening record and maintain it more functioning, as had been at the cancer club's search center. So this is a similar arrangement. The agency also took part in handling needed improvements and changes according to health care needs, cancerski coordination centres, and other executives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u140	Madam President. It is natural that Iceland's health system has altered basic services that directly turn to about Half of the people had no law foundation even for the document to hold on to it. I wouldn't have had an idea of this in my time. There was enough mess with the local minister and ministry. But the current minister is taking this matter, I think it is, of course, that he will take it in the right direction - finally. The people involved here who were pained at a time deserve much better, and they were glad they were getting ashore. I wanted to ask, because this bill binds the screening form to cancerskis, I wondered if it may be fully tight because preventative screening can be useful for e.g. heart disease? [[The president calls.]] This is done in some lands. Has there been a review at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u141	V.E.G. President. I had the bill with me for asking questions. A senator I thank for. There are a number of files that are handled by a surgeon's office according to Article 8. and this bill announces an addition to that article. Eight. We're looking at birth records, cardiovascular records, neurological records, cancer records, accident files, medical supplies and health care records. There are more files; diabetes records, and more, cranial disease. I don't think there's a publicized screening file in the context we're looking at here. That may be what we need to look to. [[The president calls.]] That's when we're making use of the information in a preemptive purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u142	President. It may be one of the more important aspects of the medical system that this matter is partly involved, that is, prevention, to grasp when people become ill, to grab the problem before it becomes serious. It is quite remarkable to think of how we think about prevention in the health system and in the general community after all, often more emphasis on law enforcement than on drug control or in poverty or in various ways that often end up as law enforcement. This may have involved the discussion in the United States when it was said that we should stop funding the police, not necessarily to stop funding the problem, but to direct the money where it will help people to the best, as was the case we were discussing earlier because the thought of not being at war, such as the one that was drawn from a program. to those who are addicted to drugs but who think of them as patients, suddenly changes their mind about the solution to the situation. And that's exactly what you're thinking; a screen file, interesting. Where else do I go to a screening file on a regular basis? To the dentist. It may not exactly be a screening list, but regularly, every year, a dentist will register, and you will be paid for a checkup. Why is it not a similar arrangement for other organs of the body such as the heart or prostate gland? We're very used to taking the car to an anointing, this classic, and we just agreed to a connoisseuration of the homes' but the highest. A minister once argued with me about this as a senator. I think it would be interesting to direct it to the Ministers, the Government and the Council to think of a caution issue perhaps in a larger context than perhaps one file that lacks the legal authority to preserve out some confusion over and over, but, rather, the exact characteristic of the dissociation of the system. I've never understood why dentists are in some special system. Even though they are now under health insurance, there is still a huge price to be paid to check it out every year. Why is this not like going to a health care facility? I don't understand, I never understood. It's become free for children, indeed. Well, that's a good thing. You were in a system like that when you were young yourself. Then I moved between my townsmates, because I was always moving between my townsmates all over the place, and when I moved to the next town society I didn't fall into that system, just somehow got lost between the two ways. It would be nice to have some screening file for it, so you could let you know what you're entitled to. At the same time, I pay attention to the fact that the government has registration of everything and everyone. But who else should store your medical information? Where are they safe? Also, it is not fun for an individual to have to take care of it for himself and to be responsible for holding that information for himself, especially if it is lost in a fire or by personal means, to save it in some cloud somewhere, etc. It is a very difficult problem to achieve this balance that the government does not have complete genetic information on everything, the really valuable information that can still be obtained from everyone's public health through some similar information. I think we're learning better about the recent technological revolution of electronics - it's not all on paper anymore, about what potential exists, and how much better we can learn about the dangers and the consequences of information if they're not safe. That's exactly what I remember. A surgeon had a problem with software not long ago. There were some contracts and there was some Microsoft stuff there and things that weren't quite at their best. It is good to consider the personal and security information allowed to collect and preserve, and the rights of the registered individuals, definitely, but the caution is complex and we've seen it happen that data sources have been released into the atmosphere all too often in recent years, so there is some balance that we need to learn better about these prevention issues, to get everyone earlier, it is simply more practical in the larger context, but also to make sure that it is not abused, at the same time as it can also be used in research. I had a hearing on a budget board recently about financing, a committee of responsible science practices. It came to pass that this committee is not a trust fund. Clearly, the Ministry wanted this committee to be financed. It didn't go through the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Education went to General II. budgets, but they didn't get financial support. V.E.G. A minister may know how these means of funding can be. Perhaps, at times, funding for some projects is moved or adjusted only to form a hole that can then be filled by the General Assembly, which may suddenly have more capitalization for the seminary or the topic field than is necessary. It's a serious concern for us here at the council, and even on a budget board, we can see if there was really no funding for such a thing. This committee. But the answer is that this funding is not there, and if we want to have such registrations that are also useful in science or health care, we will probably also need to fit the responsible use of them as something such as the Committee on Accountable Science should be followed. This is such an encouragement to Ministers to find out about this whole thing, from this new perspective, which involves not just responding, not only funding the police but, rather, attacking the root of the problem, not just funding the brain surgery, although, of course, necessary if so, but attacking the root of the problem, not only the child - youth - and - juvenile department of the Land Hospital, such as but also the pre-emptives in the first and second stages of treatment because we don't really want anyone to end up in the BUGL. We want everyone to get away from it, they've been received, and we've been hugging them, so they don't have to go through the first, second, and fall straight into the third stage of therapy, and they've barely stopped at the first two, but there's only a long wait list, and the problem was that it got into an emergency immediately. I think this thought of focusing on funding to work at the root of the problem is not going to be very effective in the future. But to that end, we need a change of mind that at least Piratars have been talking about, e.g. In the criminal case, and I hope more people are lighting the bulb with it. People in general understand prevention, they've seen how well they work, e.g. in the face of teenage drinking and smoking. People know that prevention works, but somehow they only functioned in this category, continue to hit each other's categories, put people on record, and treat them like criminals. I'm the highest. A minister to make up the same category of lawsuits that we have seen successful results in, such as. Prevention of smoking and the drinking of youths, trying to dominate them into other lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u143	Madam President. This is certainly an important matter that we are discussing here regarding cancerskis. I don't think there's any need for a polygraph on the importance of cancer probes, although it's been established in the case of the senators before me. What I wanted to discuss briefly is an access to the cancer cells. Today, in Iceland all women aged 23◯64 years are offered a cervical screening, cervical cancer screening, and all women aged 40How74 are offered a screening for breast cancer. But do all women in Iceland have the same opportunity to accept this invitation? I think it's quite clear that it's not. When I first received a letter in breast cancer screening recently for the first time, it was a long letter in English. I thought about what had been discussed earlier this year when we candidates were in a presentation with the Cancer Society in the leading election, which included. Discussing what has been discovered in the surveys and studies of the Cancer Society, that participation in women of foreign background is much smaller than in others. There are natural things that create inequities and incorruption. There may be costs, there may be lack of information, there may be a lack of access to information, there may be differences in health standards, there may be a number of them. It may be cultural factors, social factors, education, background, etc. I personally have experience working with women of foreign origin who are often from countries that are quite far away from us, where the culture in these things is quite different. It is not the only language that prevents some women from accepting this invitation. There may be other obstacles. There may be fear of the unknown, of these screenings, of not knowing what this is all about. The letter is formally expressed and may not be in simple language, and it may not explain in enough the basics of what is going on and why, given the reader's knowledge of it, this may seem to be true in our culture. During this presentation at the Cancer Society, it was asked if any investigation had been made, why women of foreign origin are not being screened, and if there were any measures to resolve this. It is clear that the cancer community has long been concerned about the unique status of people in these screenings and has responded in various ways. The Society has conducted an experimental project on the success of free screening, making it clear that the cost is large. I paid about 5,000 bucks. Before the screening that I took during the day, which may not be a great barrier to me, but it doesn't take long to realize that it can be a major barrier to people who really have to wonder at each cent between months. There have been some projects that have been attacked, and recently there was an excellent program for the health care department. It is described on the health - care website, with permission of the president: ▪ Do women from the Icelandic community share their history with the photographic presentation have arrived at your screening? and thus encourage other women to participate in screening at the time of the invitation. A special signal has been designed to remind women of the importance of taking part in cervical screening. Balls with the signal are for sale at the 38 - step store on Laura 25, and at the Web site. Then, according to the Cancer Society's website on the results of increasing numbers, women are being screened for an overall growth and may not directly focus on foreign - language women by permission of the president: ▪ The year depends on a variety of measures. These include reviews and updates of covering and invitations, texting, public presentation of community media, and focusing on rapid services [...] The report was presented specifically to women of foreign origin through public media presentations in foreign languages, and community services also used for introductions to national screening. These measures are very important and good. If I am to speak from my experience of working with women of foreign origin who are up to groups of refugees, there are women who never use Internet. Women who may not even read or find it difficult to read are not accustomed to reading, either for their benefit or for their enjoyment or for their enjoyment, not to receive written information, they are not at community media. They may accept a text message and use a telephone, but it is a question of whether one text can explain thoroughly enough to people of another culture on what cancer screening is going on. So I'm worried that we're still watching this with certain privileged glasses that make it impossible for us to see the ways we need to go. The main way to reach women who do not have access to these written data and online information on cancerskis is to have a conversation. Then we have a discussion about other aspects of adaptation here in the country that I could be able to stand here all night and all week and talk about. I'd like to mention an example of one of the 12 women who are involved in the photographic presentation, which I repeat that I consider to be a very important initiative but by no means enough, but that is the story of the chairman of the fields, Agnieszku Agnieszka Ziólkowska, of her introduction from the cervical screening after she moved to Iceland. She moved to Iceland at 23 years of age, if I remember correctly. Her story is very short and that's how it is, with president's permission: ▪ When I moved to Iceland, a few years passed before I took a cervical screening. I got the invitation, but it was in English so I couldn't understand what it said. In Poland, women were not invited to a screen when I was living there, so it was totally new to me. The next time I received an invitation, I asked my Icelandic friends to translate this letter for me to the point that she has had Icelandic friends who could translate it for her, but not all women of foreign origin. - and they encouraged me to leave. I called, but the person who responded did not speak English and my Icelandic was not good enough. So I gave up. There we are talking about a woman of foreign origin who, despite all things, has a lot of access to this information, has Icelandic friends who help her with the importance of the letter, and can explain to her what is about to happen and even encourage her to leave. But that was not enough. So we can imagine what it takes for a woman who does not know what this letter means and who may even be frightened when she sees this letter, even though it is translated and explained, to be taken to a screen. It takes much more than that. It takes considerable effort to ensure the bioavailability of these women at screening. In view of recent events and, in fact, global evolution in recent years, we can expect that women of foreign origin, who may not know the culture we take as a self - determination. I think it is extremely important to consider that the system we're offering to support lives in Iceland also contains cultural factors, cultural presentations, training, constant cultural conversations to give people access to what the Icelandic community has to offer, which is often new to people, very new. Cancer robots are also a very sensitive phenomenon for many. It's something that won't be explained at one text. I'm just gonna let myself put it that way. And by the way, I'm celebrating the bill that's being discussed here. I wonder, for example, about many of the questions that have been raised in this discussion regarding the legality of this registration so far and beyond, but I think that by increasing the availability of all women in Iceland that these screenings will also be more reliable and useful, so I think all of this is played together and being heard in one unit and in the highest degree. Minister to keep this in mind for continued work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u144	Madam President. I wanted to get in touch with this matter -- which I like very much and think is of the good, at least a man appears. so the first episode and the first review - to discuss cancer probes in general. There has been a little debate about the fact that during the removal of the cervical canal from the cancer club and to the health care department, the situation was striking. That's what I think, perhaps, is a classic and a textbook example of speaking and conversation certainly serves a formal purpose, but the lack of it and the supply of information simply caused women to be less involved in this service than they used to. That is the responsibility of the government, and it is very serious in my mind. It is being suggested that the screening record be one of the medical records responsible for and run by the surgeon's office. I have to admit, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, that I am surprised to read in a report that it is now that this relationship is getting better. Above all, though, I wanted to discuss what is stated on page 24 of this magazine. 2, little phrases that I find important in the context of surveys in general, that have now, for example, been present. The decision to engage in anal and colonic activities is made and the registry needs to be adjusted to that decision. I think this is a very important step and would have wanted a more detailed study of the reporting on timing, capitalization, and implementation of that relationship, and would have liked to hear the highest. The health minister will review it. I'm a memorable branch I've read not long ago after the Halla Þorvaldsdóttir, who works at the Cancer Society - I think it's the society's manager - since it was just talking about these screens and traced it there in the next 15 years cancer in Iceland will grow by about 30%. Of course, that does not happen after 15 years. It will continue to happen. Of course, there is a change and increase that will have a major impact on society all but, of course, not least on the health system. In this article, I felt that I had made many good comments that would have made me feel that the government had, like, the government. A new government covenant is being considered. That's where even the two of them come from. and that international institutions have for decades encouraged countries to develop active cancer programs, programmes that cover all factors. First, of course, how we prevent cancer and then to ensure the quality of life of those diagnosed with cancer and finally to reduce the weight and burden of social and health cancers. After a pandemic, we have become quite familiar with our own language as we discuss how to lighten our weight on the health system, and here is the subject for the same. I hope that the health minister will be in a talk afterward review more carefully on what the government intends to do with it, i.e. when these screenings will be started. I understand that it should, in that way, take a certain group first, as it were, slowly starting slowly. I'd also like to hear the health minister's perspective on the new blood and cancer medicine department at the Land Hospital. I think that all of us who have experience in attending this department, including those who have been dealing with cancer, can support the presence of the department, unfortunately, are unacceptable. I'd like to see the government set up some measures to make this facility big for patients and staff too. It has been reported in the media that the Cancer Society agreed at the main meeting to set a table of 450 million. K. a contribution to this project, with the objective of the government to put this project first. What's the highest perspective. A health minister there? I think that all discussions about cancer are difficult and difficult to meet. There are so many experienced cases of this disease, either as caregivers or as patients. Breast cancer is the most common cancer of women, and because of the prevalence of this disease in the community, and because it can often become severe, it has a widespread impact in the community all that this department is not stronger than it really is. I'm not talking about the services people receive, the services that are rendered by the wonderful professionals employed there, but about the situation. But I came up here to express my joy with this matter, and a certain wonder at my recovery, as I say, but it's a joy to be addressed right now. I would be very interested in hearing further coverage. Health Minister for these screening techniques, as well as for his position and whether cancer treatment status in the Land Hospital will be improved in the near future. I'm going to allow myself to claim that there is a real need for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u145	Madam President. I'd like to review here a report request as a matter of course. A senator was the first official of the change in organization and the implementation of screening for cervical cancer that we received less than a year ago after four months'work at the Ministry to gather what we thought was just printing out of the file something available. It took four months, but it may not have been crushed, eight pages, two less a month from the Ministry there. However, this report quotes the documents based on them. I took a look at one of the 22s of February 2019. It was three years ago. There is a surgeon's memo on the location, control, and execution of cancer screening. It reviews the office's position on the proposal for a screening body to transfer screens from cancer society to public parties. It says here, it's kind of funny, to think about, by permission: It will be more likely that tasks involved in debridement, legislation, and monitoring will be easier if screens are part of the general and public health services. A joke or a routine foreplay to the things that followed. However, here on the first page: a normal laboratory registry should be held. This procedure has to be checked for improvement. Then three years have passed, and this arrangement has been completed for a year without improvement. [[The president calls.]] Did the senator think that this could actually have been so decomposed when the screens were moved back in time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u146	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his answers, and he's going to start with his final statement. The question was: "Dick." A senator thinks that might be the case? The frank answer is that I didn't think of it when we were discussing this matter that it might be. But as it turned out, I realized that the whole organization, all extramarital, is used in the same terms by the Ministry, or the local minister, rather, in this matter, was very different. For example, I felt that it was an extraordinary experience. I realize that in this process the voice of women was not heard at all. So I allow myself to speak as a woman is a woman's experience at all roads and this kind of opinion for a woman who has a difficult experience, e.g. of pregnancy and birth, women with a difficult experience in the context of violence, there is a close contact with a doctor who performs an examination, and taking up all of this system in the way that was being done there, with complete contrasting experience, who spoke to doctors about having access to women's health. This, in fact, seemed to me to rhyme with the focus of the entire government during the last term, that it would be an independent goal to have the health care that remains no independent experts. I am glad to see that I seem to be a new health minister. Of course, this process is quite remarkable, not to be stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u147	Mr. President. So I pick up one of the threads in response of what. I believe that the decision to perform screening for cervical and breast cancer is one of the most feminist health decisions that can be made. It's just that messing it up with astrocentric as it happened in the last term is unbelievable. I still can't get beyond it. We were now traveling through the report, tracking these changes, discussing this and checking at the time. However, in a document written by the surgeon in the report submitted to the council, it is said that one of the main factors in these changes, stands in black and white, is that there is a need to set up a control center for screening projects that take place in the cancer society's search center and that need to be checked better for that control center to keep track of the screening record. Could this have been mentioned in the report that we received, since we were asking about the process and decisions and any problems we might face on the project? Would the Ministry have thought that we would be interested in knowing that the foundation file should be swallowed out of this account by some general warrant for the possession of medical records at the surgeon's office? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u148	A respectable president. Hv. The senator mentions the request I presented at the time because of this transfer, i.e. when the cervical probes were to move from the cancer community, which later discovered that it was done without the ability of anyone to accept the project, without knowing where to analyze the vision, without checking whether the Landspians could handle the vision and identify those that came to light that the Landsta could, he was not asked. All of this is a fairy - tale delay and discomfort for women attended by this health - care provider. The plans for a report at the time may have been the naive belief that by creating evidence and getting reasons for the then health - care minister, the picture would be clearer, and it would produce some calmness. Sadly, though, that conclusion did not come. Both had to call for this report, just that it would be done and that it would enter the council, and it was actually submitted on the last day of the council, which caused the conversation to fail. This eight - page report took so much time in progress that the World of Congress was deprived of the opportunity to have this conversation with the then minister. But I'm going to end up with a positive note: I'm glad to see that it's there to do better here, and I support them with all my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u149	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for listening to us here and hearing what we're offering. Although the bill being discussed is not large and has little to do with keeping a screening record, there are many factors in this relationship that have not been kept as well as should have been in recent years. Where the highest. A minister may not have been just thinking about health matters until less than six months ago when he received a phone call from the chairman of his party to become a health minister, especially since we know that there are certain points to be delivered. A health minister is listening to what is said here. I wanted to start by talking about prevention. There have been a wide range of evaluations on the importance of prevention. It is often said that for every 1 k. which is spent on preventative measures approximately 5 to 6K. In response to an object that could have been stopped much earlier. When we have a health system that has exploded with money and needs ways to provide the quality of the money we need, it is precisely by investing in the pros we can make up for. It is screened as one of many of the equipment we have. I'd also like to mention that, living abroad, that as a man gets a phone call from his dentist, just like a dog. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson bear pointed out, to come into a check, you get exactly the same thing once a year from your family doctor, where you have a blood test. They even take an electrocardiogram (ECG) or some simple objects to check what is wrong. Knowing each of the costs of heart disease and other factors that can be found early by measuring, e.g. The important thing is that of cholesterol in your blood and of anything else. If you do not receive this phone call and are not encouraged or encouraged to go to a proper check once a year, you will not leave, just as if you are not going to see a dentist until your dentist has arrived. I know a story about one woman who just moved abroad and approached her family doctor. The home doctor asked: "What's wrong with you? Nothing, I'm fine. Well, then why are you here? I just wanted to make a check. What kind of check? Just this year. In effect, she had to drive her family doctor into these prevention programs, making these screens, this simple screening of blood sugar, cholesterol, and other things. Surely we know all the stories of people who have gone to some sort of check and have found something that later would have been much more expensive to process. So I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers to find precautions that may not have to be expensive, are simple but can save millions if not billions. As long as we're talking about this, it's really important, like one little dog. A senator came in earlier, saying that when people go to screens, when they have tests, the results will come as soon as possible. Some people do not sleep since they have been screened and until the conclusion, e.g. for fear of having cancer coming back. Talk about shooting again. I asked the highest. Minister of the age. As a supportive woman who developed cervical cancer at 25 years of age and then had to fight with it every year, we have to make sure that it is not a 40 or 50 year old, that you are not allowed to go to screening. If the person is afraid to get this, e.g. Because of history, but we know that a lot of cancer is believed to be genetic, so it is very important to open up that there is not a date: You can show up on your birthday when you're 50. We also need to keep in mind that the country is here, for example. will be more common in the so-called BRCA gene than in other countries. It's not known why. However, there is a fairly large number of women and men in this country with this BRCA gene, and it is very important that good surveillance is being done there and people are supported in the prevention program that is often under way. The defenses are important, but when we have such a large system, such as the health system, and we know we have to fix it, it's also very difficult to start fixing something we're not measuring. That's why it's very important to have such files as the highest ones. Of course, the minister is considering and that these data are not personal, but they are in a statistical sense available to help us determine whether we are adding or not. I think there's a lot more to process from medical records and other information to understand how we're doing. I believe that the highest. Ministers want to build even better health systems. Then it is just the basis for us to take advantage of the data to know where the pot is broken, where we are doing good things, what we can learn from other countries, how we can safely do it, how we do it in that way that we are not affecting personal protection and all these pits that are easy to fall into. While it has often been said that the American health system is bad, one of the things they have learned is to examine the data carefully to know: What do we do to improve? Where are we going to raise the defenses? Where do we save the money? It is often said that we want more efficient health systems. The only way we can get an efficient health system is if we measure it. Somewhere they said, "You can't fix things you don't speak. " So I'm the highest. A minister to find ways to find more data and keep them open so that we can see the good work being done. So finally: As long as we do this, we will probably continue with the steps that have, for example, taken. have been taken for the last two years about Covid. There is a screening file, which was installed relatively quickly. What may be most important is that the scan list, the details of when you left, and the results and all these items, were available to the patients. It's great to have a system like a health presence so that you can order the medication and see what medications you've been on and all the vaccinations you've had. Some nut. A senator spoke earlier about having to find the certificate of vaccination. No, it's all in a state of health now. More of these data, blood test results and other results - because we have a lot of other things, e.g. Our watches and other software that can help us improve our behavior about food and exercise and other things. Many of them want access to data because they can give you better guidance. More research is needed to consider how to make use of the data. The usefulness of the data is part of the fourth industrial revolution, and we really need to make good use of it in our health. I'd like to thank you again at the highest. Minister for being here and listening and I'm at the top. Minister nods and writes down, and that's good. We will support him in this and in others who come to help improve our health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u150	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions we are having here, and not for the lack of it. Of course, it's just part of the big issue of going through this life as a human being and being decently at that time. Hv. A senator became aware of the prevention and premeditation of action that would be needed, and I surely agree that we can do much better there. Of course, there is a gold value if diseases that are very serious in the early stages or before they develop into ill - treatments. But we may also be able to prevent these diseases through changes in consumption patterns, physical activity, and other factors that can help us to maintain such diseases. It's just sometimes too late to cover the well when the baby is dropped into, that's what the saying is. Hv. A senator also mentions the health care and basic services that need to be there. I'd like to direct it to what it is. A senator, mentioned here that health care should care for these opinions: What if health care is not available?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u151	President. Hv. A senator asks: "What if there is no health care? I also say, " What if the health care is next for me in three months? ' That, of course, is part of what we need to solve. If something is wrong today, people will be constantly going to the clinic or the emergency room because they have three months'waiting to get to the clinic in many places. Obviously, there is no time left for anyone to make an appointment for an appointment. We certainly need to tackle it right away so that our health care takes away what we are supposed to do, and we need to find out why we do not have time. But, hey. A senator also spoke of prevention and how we change our lifestyle. It is an Icelandic innovation company that has created technology to help people change their lifestyle, change their behavior, and use the very good technology based on behavioral economics, so I use the word for it. And one of the new-born companies was, for example, one. helping people who are on the verge of becoming diabetic to change their behavior so that they would no longer be at risk. Knowing how much it takes for people to get diabetes is a lot of saving to help people change their ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. We live in many rural areas that are not health care. I just want to name Southnestown as an example, which is the new country society that used to be Gardened and Sandmaker. Besides, there's no health care in the West. Hv. One senator noted that it would be preferable to have a routine checkup. We are required to have our car examined regularly. We can't help it. The numbers are cut off if we don't do the job. Then there are some experts who take our car, crawl under it, light it and examine all its components, whether the brakes are broken, or the controls are gone, or the brake lights are gone. This examination would have to take place at the health care center, that you were only obliged to check your mind regularly. It would not be in those places where this service cannot be performed to deal with deadly diseases when people finally realize that they have become ill from a severe cancerlike disease. Isn't this what we have to get into as a community, to strengthen these basic foundations of our community so that we can avoid losing our people out of this evil disease that no one wants?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u153	President. Yes, we certainly need a much more defined way of considering things like this; a question as to whether you get your tattoos down your arm, like the car gets the stickers. After all joking aside, it is very important to make such views, and things will be discovered much sooner than later. There are many of us, so we don't go anywhere until we really have a job somewhere. Then we'll go to the place first, get a doctor. When initial symptoms are identified, they may be something that can be fixed very easily. I totally agree with that word. A senator says that this is something we have to do. For the first thing, not being clinics everywhere, I have experience using distant health care in a way that allows me to talk to a doctor through videos or just chats or e - mails. It's often that you have to ask about something, you're saying something - there's a lot of things you can take care of and you don't have to look at you, or you're checked through videos, and the doctor says: "Well, listen, yeah, you've got a colon in your eye, an example I know. Then you can say, "Yes, listen, do a blood test at this place, and I'll call you as soon as you're finished. " Far more than that, telecommunications can be considered to be a far cry from health - care providers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u154	Mr. President. This bill for law is just good, and I have a little bit of speculation about it in a slightly larger context. Like the rest of them. Today, not many people have spoken of here today, perhaps in terms of what was before and what we would like to do in these screens. I just think it's important to think about taking some sort of big effort in that regard. I don't think this should be something people are obliged to do. I think we teach people, young people at school, and at work, about why this is important. In this context, people, e.g., need to be received better. When women show up and experience that there may be some kind of lump in their chest or in some other way, and that people may be there with understanding, getting the services, this breast screening, or whatever the cause of what this person complains about, and finding reasons to go to a doctor, most of whom do not go to the doctor for fun. We need, I think, often to listen rather and get more, what does one say, false-negative, who says to take more than fewer and see if there is something to look at fully or not, because the sacrifice cost is so great if we're refusing to come to mind because of age or anyone else, then there's just an incredible number of factors that can play into getting cancer. And you can't say, "No, wait, you're not 40, you can't have breast cancer, come in five years. " We need to trust that people are experts in their own lives and bodies, and we need to guide them and show them humility because these are the most sensitive ways in which people go, to go to the doctor, and to be examined from head to foot. It's just something that people aren't doing just because they're doing it, and those who do it just because they're just because they're probably not many -- then they're all right because we prefer to get people and grab people who are sick and are really with some kind of cancer or something that they're feeling a sign of rather than skip these people because they can't have breast cancer because they haven't had a certain age. It is quite tragic to hear how often, especially in the context of breast cancer, but also another type of cancer, this has happened. There are rules like this for expected employees, too, in bobcats. They are trying to enforce rules in their workplace and regulations set out to enforce them. I don't envy the people who work at these institutions and have to refuse to be screened because of their age, for example. Therefore, I feel that there is a need to reconsider how this is done and that we are more confident that people will not go to a doctor or plan to have tests unless there is a reason for them. I don't want to see a doctor for no reason. The fact that I've come and I've made a trip to the doctor and that the doctor or the screening centre or wherever I'm going to not receive me is both humiliating and demeaning my faith in my own ability to determine when I think it's appropriate to go to a doctor and when I don't. It is very important that we have a good relationship with our body and that we can rely on it that when our body or intuition tells us that something is wrong. I know my body best, as others know their bodies best, and doctors and other experts are experts in their education, but you're an expert in your own body. I think this is something that needs to be revised, that people cannot be denied their screenings because the cost of sacrifice is so great if they are done on the wrong grounds and with too little information. Age is not enough information, and there are natural examples. I don't have any statistics about it, but only in the media and elsewhere, you've heard a lot of sad stories about people who have been diagnosed all too late with cancer despite repeated attempts to consult doctors and other health care professionals. Of course, people who operate in the health system are human. But if such unrealistic rules are put around things such as health, physical health, mental health, or any kind of health, the cost of sacrifice is far greater than if we just trust people a little more and take more than 20, 30 or 40 more at screening. I think it's something to reconsider. Since we're not even getting the people we want for those tests, how important it is that we accept the people who want to come! Also, I don't think it fair for health care professionals to be under some kind of rule that doesn't work and is likely to do their best, of course, but the fact that people are 40 years old or 30 years old doesn't say much. Besides, I think it's remarkable to examine this from personal data, and here I'm just going to quote the bill itself. It says: The purpose of the registry is to contribute to a consistent and targeted and follow-up of cancerskis and to improve the quality and safety of health care. The minister is permitted, in a Regulation, to refer further to the personal information permitted to collect and preserve, security measures and rights of the registered individuals. All I want to do is take up the thread from it as long as it takes. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir spoke of earlier. It's beautiful, it's cool, and that's where we're looking out for people's interests. But why hasn't this been done in mental health matters long ago, with those who help people in the mental - health wards of the Land Hospital, and who are at risk of suicide? The cancer cells could be replaced, talking about mental - health treatment, mental - health treatment, and it would likely be acceptable to all who attend this service. Of course, I would like that to be done in a conversation with users primarily. I held on to the belief that this was not done on the basis of a personal protection plan. But I think that there's really just a little apathy and inadequacy and just a little bit of hopelessness within the mental health system. But I think there's a need for authority and make cool prime radios for follow-up procedures and progressive treatment for people who are at risk of suicide or who are looking for emergency care in the country. This is what I wanted to go over. Otherwise, I just think it's really good, and I want to agree with those who have talked about prevention, that they're very important. But the most important thing to me is that we allow anyone who wants to be screened to come and encourage others who do not want to come by without any rules. They're just supposed to listen to people and trust that they're experts in their own bodies and their own lives, but they're not just looking at how old people are in some kind of life - years, which says relatively little.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u155	Mr. President. First, I want to do as many of us have done in this discussion and thank you very much. A minister for bringing this matter to trust the basis for a career that was thoroughly out of control, in effect, just shockingly thinking about how difficult it was to change the setting for cervical cancer, which looks to a better source. But I'd like to go over the background, just certain things that we need to discuss because it was all so unnecessary. There was so no need for a venture in the safety and health of thousands of women, to increase their worries, and their victims because perhaps on the way to Denmark, there was a loss, or a loss of meaning, because it was such a long time. The danger of confusion that came with moving the analysis of the available samples out of the country was enormous, cost and time as well. But the tool could have been picked up and called the Land Hospital to find out that there were any equipment available to make it decent inside the country. Happily, this will do well even if the project has not yet been made right. There is still a point that needs to be developed from the worst, that is, the initial challenges of a project that began over a year ago and was prepared much longer. There I would like to point out a report given to the council by a former health - care minister after a table and a plate at the council's request for the procedure and the basis for all of these decisions. It comes, for example. until the Minister has decided these adjustments to propose to the surgeon and screening Council of February 2019. If we look at this proposal by the surgeon, there is a rather unexpected fact because it is here at the highest level. Minister to bring a bill to ensure the legal foundation of a screening file that has - I find it so pleasantly spoken in the report - temporarily being fired as a common medical system on the responsibility of the health care of the capital area. This was thought to be justified for the first time. It is easy to ignore the fact that they simply lacked legal ground for exactly what was needed. On the grounds of the law, we'll get along with this. Although I assume that all implementations were in accordance with the laws relevant to the medical records system, of course it is only natural to have a specific testing system, as is suggested here. I specifically mention this because in the proposals of the surgeon and screening council from February 2019 - more than three years ago, long before all of this happens on which the decision is based - it is just said to keep a record of the normal research, the so - called planning plan, but to check the need to improve for that arrangement. I don't remember many examples in which my hand is as thoroughly documented. We are here at last in 2022 to get a bill to trust the improvement for a project that has been going on since 2021, but it became clear at once that 2019 would need to trust the improvement. But so I turn to better position, we're sure glad we're finally the highest. A minister brought this bill to us, although the last minister should have done this before all the changes took place so that it would have been on the right side the whole time with a solid legal ground. I'd also like to step in, because I mentioned that the project was not 100% yet, still a failure of action, that there is also reason to look at the rules that were changed two years ago, that I am reminded of both age targets and the time between opinions and the inflexibleness that was at the same time baked into the system that a woman cannot knock on until she has reached her State time in return. How much longer must we have our health care system than if people really do not trust them to listen to their bodies? So I agree with those who have called for this criteria to be cleared and restored, just as it is being done to help with all this project and to better look at the current highest level. Secretary of health. I didn't have time to speak properly in reply to the highest. A minister before, but would like to mention specifically that the bill suggests that the screening registry is organized and held that is intended for cancerskis. There, so I continue to add the positive point, we naturally add screening for colorectal cancer, which is a very positive step and long time, something the cancer community has called after years. But what I'd like to ask myself, and I'm referring to the welfare committee as to when this case is considered, unless it set the minister on fire and he personally examined it in the Ministry regardless of this bill, is whether the screening record could not include any further preventable diseases. There I would like to review a proposal for a council resolution that I proposed for a convention of 150th for planning heart exams among young people. This is so that in recent decades the incidence of cardiac deaths has been greatly reduced. This includes the emphasis on lifestyle changes, general preventive measures, and counsel on how to react to a heart attack, but there is always some things that are inherited and therefore cannot be done, no matter what people try to do, prevent them by changing their diet or what they are trying to do. These inherited heart problems are a little common in young people during life - styles or, what should be said, the acquired heart problems are more common in older people. It is so that in the last decade of a heart attack, the last 40 people a year have had their first heart attack before they were 50 years old and seven of them a year under 40. Although it may be difficult to strike an accurate ratio, experts have told me that there is only a very high probability that an excess of these individuals will suffer from some type of inherited disease where hereditary lipidosis is most common. The thing about hyperlipidaemia is that it is extremely simple to identify and treat it so that a person will never have to experience a heart attack, not even get close to it. As such, e.g. For some time in Britain, it is customary that if a person has a heart attack before he is 35 years old, relatives are being informed. This is a distinct group screened for possible hereditary heart disease. This is something that Britain's screening Council decided to do because it was just an excessive national economy. A number of heart attacks could be prevented there. So at Council 150, I suggested that the health minister would do something similar in this country, see if this could be successfully implemented, determine which risk groups would be targeted, which age, how wide a relative should be targeted, how wide to explore and, of course, how to frame this into an acceptable costume using the personal protection guidelines. Then a welfare committee received a review from the surgeon general's office that accepted the proposal, took a good look at the idea, actually called attention to the possibility of a better future for this project. This would then send his motion to the surgeon, and he would advise a minister. I wondered if screening for heart disease, e.g. the defined group of people who may be at risk for inherited heart disease is not an example of something we would like to keep the frame open. There may not be any reason to resign or cancel the bill presented by the minister today, whether or not to attack a young person's heart check, but if a program of screening decided that it was the wisest and that it offered to the surgeon and health minister thereafter, it might be unnecessary to have to provide a special bill to the screening form that is being proposed to legalize them, to cover them as well, and perhaps some more. I'm just not well enough in medicine to imagine what other genetics are, but easily preventable diseases could fall on them. But this, I think, would be a good research guide for a screening record. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson called, if I heard right, the book of the flesh. There are several factors that could be considered in the accelerator of the body's preemptives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u156	V.E.G. President. I keep silent at the end of this discussion to express my appreciation for a good and upbuilding discussion of important matters that we all agree on. I refer to the last speaker's words, my dear. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's report that what we're doing here is to trust the basis for the testing process in time. At the same time, I intend to respond to speculations. Because it has been shown in the discussion, a candidate for further screening tests. Hv. A senator drew out heart disease, and I need to ask myself more informed men about it, if that's not part of it. I think, in view of the discussion and the emphasis on prevention and the importance of the screening and the ability to assess results, we need to think about this for the future. A lot of heads. Councilmen, a respectable president, came into custody and access. Hv. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter introduced the bioavailability and importance of reaching the number of women from a foreign background. It is especially the cultural differences that we need to consider, and I truly agree with that. I was here in answer to what. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson, who did not have the numbers in his head. A senator asked about, which is found in a fine - web of cohesion centers of the capital area. Then I'd like to come into the context of the colon and rectal systems that are starting to develop. The project manager has been hired for the project. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir came in on it. This year's final screening will hopefully begin at the end of this year and a team of workers will be organized. It's very important to establish a central reflection base, which I don't know how to explain. So there are some preparations for this to begin, and hopefully it will be presented for screening at the end of this year. Experience in this case is expected to screen your age at 50-◯74 years. I'm sorry. This is all I know about the position of the project right now. I think it was very important to have the project manager, and he's been hired and put together the work team. Here we were reminded of what we were doing. During the campaign, they were able to visit the cancer community that covered the story and the situation, and I asked at the end of a meeting if two of the most important challenges could be presented. Then they were screened for color and rectum, and the rest was building up the cancer department in the Land Hospital. As we know and why. Gunnlaugsdóttir The cancer community has offered one third of its funding to rebuild the division of the Land Hospital. I was on the counter or the conversation at the council the other day that this direct conversation has to be made to the Cancer Society and the Land Hospital. I've had this conversation with the Land Hospital and the Cancer Society, and this project has only been very positive. Hopefully, both of us will succeed in making good use of this generous contribution and, especially, restoring branches through patient service. Hv. paritaprevir Guðbrandur Einarsson came to see that we have a policy of strengthening and strengthening health care, and it is true that the situation varies from one side of the country. We know the state of Southnes. There are nearly 4,000 residents in the city of Southnesjan, and health care would be advisable. Health care needs to be enhanced. It's just not up to the National Institute of Health, it's because of both design and equipment. She may be able to, if you do a good job, serve half of the area. 20% of the local population is registered in another health care facility, not registered in the area. There are some things to consider, and if we are to follow the policy of promoting health care as the first stop, we really need to intervene. This has taken place on the negative side of the last decade and over the last seven years, with this tremendous growth in the area. Finally, I'd like to step in on that as a matter of course. Councilmen of Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Sjöfn Sjöfjög Helgadóttir came in for screening and mental health. I find it very interesting, as well as what has to do with health care professionals. I want to connect to a security culture. I would also like to say that I have initiated and appointed a group of personnel to review the health care professional's legal status in the event of a serious case, documented serious cases. If we are to trust the health care provider, we need to take these matters into consideration and relate to the rule of action that is actually meant to make it easier for our excellent employees to do their work. But I'm just going to give thanks for a very valuable and upbuilding discussion, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u157	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for his word on the situation of the Southnes, and I find that a minister has an understanding of what is taking place there. When you bring this matter up, it'll set me on fire as a platoon leader for decades in the area. We've been living in that position for a long time, not just for some year, but for decades, and the situation that came up when all the doctors broke up and left. Since then, things haven't fixed up and they've been like that, like the highest. A minister noted that thousands of Southnes have chosen to register with health care other than the local community. I haven't, and I won't, and I'm gonna try to fight for some of these things. It pains me to feel that we have staff at this clinic who work hard every day, nights, nights, and weekends trying to carry out a ministry that is really beyond their ability to do. In view of the situation that exists, and in view of the funds they receive, it is a miracle that these people are only at work. As I mentioned in a talk that day, there are 122 inhabitants of each South American healthcare professional at the same time they have 40 on the West Coast. The next thing you know, it's really miraculous that these people haven't broken down, and I just want to reiterate with the Minister that they're going to be a success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u158	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We come to the role of health care in connection with the issues we are discussing here, but especially with Southnes'situation because we want health care to take care of this role, and I know why. A senator knows the situation very well and the evolution of it. But what I thought was most valuable in the opposite direction. In my conversations with health - care professionals, a candidate is an important factor that I have appreciated, and he is doing a great job under difficult circumstances. However, I would like to state that there are positive things to do in the medical and health programs, or the health programs, I would now say, for example. in quality improvements which respond to surgeon indications. She does a lot of good work and wants the Agency well and has her heart in place for the Agency. I think it's important to come out. I think to deal with the position that has been drawing up very quickly since 2015, we can say, with the rapid growth and change of composition in the region, all people must agree to support the local Agency. That's the job ahead of us. There is a short delay in the final assessment taken here as a Covid procedure but as a continuation of the synonym. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, as well as the review made by the synopsis proposal. The work will appear in the evaluation to support this project that we must share with our rural society and institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u159	A respectable president. Last summer, Swiss government officials had a conversation with the government, which included the government. the situation in the South was presented by the Department of Health for provisional housing. It took several months to get that advertisement going and then you haven't seen anything happen. I find it strange that this takes so much time, and because I also watch the system that is now established, to support a patient, and it has been authorized in the capital area to open an independent health care unit that works well according to measurement, just very well in competition with the official health care department in Reykjavík, and people can choose where they want to be. In Southnes, people have no choice, and the question is, Is this not an option that would be necessary just to make a few competition, increase the variety in the ministry, and allow people to choose where they want to be? People have a choice where they want to be. It will have to be at either the health care facility at the city of Rhinesville or in Reykjavík. That is the choices the Southnes face. Thousands of Southnes prefer to be in their home country to go to Reykjavík, which is, of course, just ridiculous, to be running with sick elderly people on the Smokejanes Way when there might be other options in the area. I'd also like to mention that it was work to watch Smokeytown or Southnes as growing areas and annual cities as areas of growth. That work produced a better report, but it does not bring a dollar in order to fulfill what is stated in that report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbrandur Isthmus Einarsson for the counter and for this discussion about the health status of the South American Institute and Health Organization. About the alternative. A senator notes that I have had a conversation with my rural society, and I need to make a better conversation with the National Institute of Health. This option is indeed considered, and we have a funded enlargement of the medical centre of the Inner Health Organization. But it's just too far, so it's certainly an option. A senator went well over. I'd also like to bring out the positive. There's been an expansion of the medical facility in 19 beds that are about to make it to the level. There are some things that are well done and have been done, and I highlight my earlier words that I know there are many things that need to be done and that we need to look to many factors, but we have to take it somehow in positive, upbuilding steps to strengthen the health - care of the area. I agree with that. A senator but then reiterates thanks, the highest. Mr President, for this great discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u161	Mr. President. Now I'm very tired of coming up here over and over again to draw the attention of the council because there's absolutely nothing to worry about the way the U.S. Minister of Justice to ignore entirely the requirement of the General and Education Committee for dispensing certain data that was to be delivered on December 28th but at the latest on February 1 of the clearness of the Board of Publicity and Education. Now I've made several attempts to post a written request for communication at the highest level. The minister to the matter and to my efforts are constantly rejected, so I continue to experiment here to understand the matter and find some solution and ask for the president's response.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u162	The president wants to state that he has had a conversation with the Minister of Justice on this particular matter more than once and more than twice, and has now thought that there was some development in these matters and that there was some way in which the World Committee under Commission could perform its duties. The president is not aware of the latest conversion in these matters or of the recent discussions at the World Commission but, of course, will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u163	President. I'm beginning to worry about the very next date that was going on in March. If these applications have been completed for a long time until October 1, then when will these applications be temporarily completed until March 1? Do we get it this summer? Or do we have to finish the Christmas applications this summer and the rest will not be until some time after summer or so? This morning at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, it was noted that the tax paid for this, which is a tax, certainly provides expectations and rights. Then it's just a matter of time being taken by the management board. We're part of Congress. When we ask for evidence, it's seven days. It's not that complicated. It's two different ways, and that's where the Ministry is trying to pack them up to one of them and say it shortens the average time, but nothing in mathematics tells you that it works. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although one application is applying more quickly and this affects other applications which work on them later in the other procedure, the average time period is the same. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u164	A respectable president. It's kind of funny that we have to come up here repeatedly, and I want to thank a lot of senators for this. This must make speculation about the authority of a minister. What can ministers do? According to my opinion, a minister just can't do anything about it. Section 6. The law of civil rights leaves no doubt as to the unit of power that handles this matter and controls it. It has been noted that this may be merely a crime. I've been thinking about it. Don't you just have to start scrimmageing the police with the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u165	Mr. President. Yes, once again, we need to get up in a talk chair and talk about it to the highest level. Minister doesn't respect law. I was sorry that a minister just left the hall earlier when we were talking about how great it would be to work with the highest power. A health minister who listens and does things, wants to improve things, and wants to work together instead of having a minister who then ignores, not just the government position, but the entire council and ignores a respectable president. So we just remember how some people are the highest. Good ministers and others are the highest. Not as good ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u166	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by informing you that nothing has exactly happened since I've been up here, nothing has happened since I've been up here, nothing has happened in this case since the Secret Service decided to do it their own way. I find an interesting conclusion that has now come to the Economic and Business Commission investigation of this payment because there are certainly all applicants paid $25,000. for this application and for the processing of the application. Even if this does not involve some timeweight, it is clear that the applications need to be completed, and although this is considered tax, this is of interest, especially in view of the fact that the head of the Subcommittee, er. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's wife, has repeatedly mentioned that it is not necessarily the obligation of the Generals to have these applications over her head. I want to inform the highest. The President and the Congress on the fact that we have received this information from the Foreign Institute, from October 2 to March 1, 59 applications. When we'll have them, I have no idea, when we'll take them out, or whether I have no idea. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that I'm personally getting mailed to me for citizenship rights. [[The president calls.]] There is so much doubt about how this process is being carried out by citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u167	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the proposal for interpretation of a policy in the treatment of health care programmes with the elderly until the year 2030. The proposal is based on the policies established by the health minister in the spring of 2021, and its presentation takes into account the importance of the agreed course of health care to 2030. The World Health Organization has devoted the healthy age of 2021 in 2002030. It is a policy - making vision that highlights changes in attitudes in society, parallel activity, and participation in older people and closer to society. Emphasis is that the service will be integrated along with increasing diversity and the expansion of the ministry in support of older people living as the longest independent population. And I think this is the key to considering changes in attitudes and activities in this age group. The rapid increase in numbers of older people is a unique challenge, both in our country and in the world. At the same time, it is clear that fewer hands will be used to care for the elderly in the future because of their changed ages. Clearly, then, technology needs to be used where possible, new solutions, procedures, and new resources are needed to ensure adequate service to the elderly. Laws on Health Care, No. 40/2007, is divided into three stages by health care. The first stage is public health care and nursing, as well as a nursing home. The second and third healthcare professional is more specific to health care. Like other inhabitants of the country, the majority of older people are serving in the first phase of health care. If an individual needs increased service, the organization assumes that it is given at the level of service that meets the need. This figure suggests that about 10◯20% of the elderly need different support or temporary assistance to live at home. As a result of living in a nursing home or attending the service in a medical facility, the 4How5% of the workers need to move abroad. This arrangement for health care for the elderly provides a broad range of targeted targets for all aspects, first degree health care, general service, and prevention, support for living an independent home, and finally a nursing home, i.e. on the whole service chain. The population development, leadership, participation, and activity of elderly people, coordination, innovation, technology, human resources, and education are being carried out. The proposal suggests that the Council concluded that elderly people in Iceland live in a safe and efficient health service where everyone is secure and emphasised, as stated earlier, on the main topic of health policy to the year 2030. It provides the direction and vision here for the basis of, lead to success, right service to the right place, people in foreground, active users, efficient services, quality of life, and thinking about the future. Then, with the forward view that it will be the basis for the work of a project management on a course of service to older people, and this task management will base on this strategy in preparation for action management. That working team is appointed to work in harmony with a government contract on these matters, so that the vision, as I have tore up here, in terms of the elderly, will be realized. This, of course, is a cross-cutting approach in which it overlaps with the work of other advisers and realizes that counseling with other governments requires cooperation on the project. The implementation of this synonym was taken into account the reports received from the earlier policy recommendations made by the health minister of 2021. In a total of 35 reports were received, but it was also noted that the Parliament's arrangement was published in government consultations and received a total of ten comments that have also been taken into consideration. Perhaps you can say it here, my chief. President, as is often true of such policy - making matters, many comments and comments on improvements can be nonstop. It is tried to frame this into these overall objectives of health care policy up to 2030, but it was combined with these indications and the review of all of this, and the ideologies in it are welcomed and accepted as the fundamental reasons we see here in the key policy guidelines for the proposal. I'm just gonna go over these key subjects briefly. Under point 1, which is called Leadership for success, the 2030 m.a. Revising legislation on rights, participation, and organization in service to older people. It is clear that a review of the laws and regulations relevant to the seminary is necessary for consultation and cooperation between counseling and mostly the Ministry of Social Affairs. Then it is suggested that this group of workers be appointed, which I referred to as a result of a decade of healthy aging, which will be involved in regional harmonization of health and social services. At the same time, there is an effort to increase the support and resources needed to care for those in need. Under point 2 of the proposal, the right service in place, the 2030 m.a. them to create a global system to ensure continuous service to users at the appropriate service level each time, as well as to take care of the practical and equalness of health care services. To achieve this goal, the service to users is suggested to be personal and integrated. Health care at the home of the user will be an individualised cross-cutting service based on a comprehensive assessment of which health care constitutes a basic unit of health care. The price for quality technology, the assessment for the services required, and the potential for older people to maintain home with or without support will be increased. Under point 3, the people in the foreground, the 2030 policy centre is to ensure long-term health care management and safe and good work environment for staff. In this way education and training will be provided to older people in line with the quality of the service as well as to consult health-groups for the processing of measures. Under section 4 of the proposal, Active users, the 2030 policy aim is to contribute to the active and responsible inclusion of user health care providers. This means that older people and their caregivers have access to a uniform full range of information on the supply of services at all health - care levels. Regardless of their location, elderly people have access to well - equipped services. Regular service tests and increased emphasis will be put on counteracting loneliness, including with increased prophylaxis, increased activity and participation in elderly population. Under Article 5 of the proposal, a valid service purchase, the 2030 policy aim is to promote the cost of health care according to government policies and the needs of users. The emphasis in this context is to revise funding systems for living and long - term care in nursing homes. It will be set up in accordance with the rules for the content of the day - to - day service as well as for the priorities of individuals in the ministry. In addition, there will be criteria for the number of nurses in each area. Underage 6, Headquarters, policy targets for the year 2030 provide quality and safety of health care. In this way an individual approach schedule will be implemented based on a complete aging evaluation. Access to integrated data will be increased, nurse's housing that does not meet the criteria for improving and maintaining personal space, converted to other services for the elderly or closed. A nursing home meets the quality that a surgeon's office stresses and regularly monitors all nursing homes in Iceland. Under 7, forward thinking, aims for the year 2030 are to ensure that education, science, and innovation contributes to the continued development of health care. The University of Iceland and the National Hospital for aging studies will be promoted and assigned to innovation, evolution, and the study of aging research and aging services. Then the object of welfare technology will be for all services being promoted and emphasis on innovation and science will be put on service to older people. In order to implement this future vision on which the proposal is based, there will be plans for five - year operations in agreement with key stakeholders. These plans will be updated every year. I have now crossed the core of this proposal and its installation. Such goals are high. But I'd like to say here, the highest. President, it's necessary, it's inevitable, that we start looking at these factors. We will not be able to continue in the process of preparing a nursing home for all or assuming that this will be the case. We must look to our effectiveness, and we must support a variety of agricultural resources. We need to make a significant increase in the importance of day space, home care and prevention, because we discussed it here in the context of screening, the entire childhood crisis. There are extraordinary numbers of things to do, amazing things can be done, the whole age of prevention. There will be no avoiding the prospect of promoting a lofty outlook and a goal. I know it's not all perfect in our world, either in health care or in other areas, but I look positively to this suggestion, which is about our goals. It speaks to form a policy environment that shapes public finances laws, and we are improving in this area. This is where the plan of action must follow, which will then be cost-estimated and talk to these policies that we are considering. I have, a respectable president, explained the main point of the proposal here for discussion. I allow myself to suggest that after a previous discussion, she will be referred to the question. The welfare committee and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u168	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the review of this synonym. I was only thinking when I saw the title Suggestion to conspire to shape a course for a health - care program with the elderly. It's just the form, of course, but I'm so afraid it might not be specific enough. That's the first thing I want to fly, that the title shows that it's not going to be specific enough. Now I've spent too much time on something that doesn't matter. Well, it has to be. What I want to ask the highest. Minister to the new home is for older people. I'll say the highest words. Minister. Building an endless nursing home for everyone is not a solution. We need to look at this much further and more from it, such as our suggestions in the United States were in the process of election, and we will offer further suggestions on how to create a farm core that includes only what is loneliness and a sense of security. As a result of increased home service, it is not really looking for a large community in a West Side area where one person lives who has lost his mate and does not feel safe at home, even though the person is far from becoming physically ill when he has to enter a nursing home but lacks both companionship and a sense of security. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if some kind of farm core is more involved than maybe this private nursing home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u169	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helga Slag Helgadóttir and start with that as long as possible. A senator came in here at the beginning because I myself stopped at this heavy wording ◯in the conduct of action strategy, to be expected. In my mind it is inserted to indicate the work of the task group which will follow up with the proposal for action in the framework of this policy. Of course, it's just this way with all the policies and policies that we have some vision, and we're out of focus on the goals as follows, then we're going to follow it, otherwise it's out, and then we're gonna follow up and evaluate the results. Then you try to make better progress. Thus, there will be a cycle of cycles, as we know it, which is so important to form in a policy-making environment laws on public finances. I'm not going to lose myself in that discussion, but it's not like that. I'm very positive for this approach. I think that is a heavy word, and I suggest it. A welfare committee considered the headline of the proposal. I didn't suggest that I change her despite getting my eyes into it. Then, of course, the big thing for the future with the home, with the social life, with the company, is breaking the loneliness that only happens if we don't put our arms around each other in this society. It's a very good way to do that. I hope, and it shows in part the suggestion, that there is a wide variety of farm forms, that this group of people we put together will consider this. I think we should have a wide variety of shapes and turn from this journey with a nursing home. [[The president calls.]] But, surely, at some point, older than we are watching today, in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u170	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, we need a variety of agricultural resources, but I think if the government went into some kind of housing arrangement, so that workers would be treated, made up of some kind of fund, a special support fund so that an apartment of this kind could be built, would be saved in other places. We know that nursing homes are very expensive. It's just a fact. During our last term, we received a report from the Cylinder Committee. We also know that we are paying a lot of money for people who need to stay inside a land hospital who should be allowed to be in a friendly environment. We also know that the need to serve someone who is lonely becomes insecure and anxious and sad at home in the isolation world will be much greater than if the individual is allowed to be in company with his peers. The mistake has been made over the years that we have actually set space for service to individuals in the Maturo term always into the middle of the unit, so that the square price for the apartments that people buy will be much higher instead of allowing the minister to pass through his expenses. So I think it would be really cool if the government went along and arranged for some kind of group, working group to develop this thought, and make a special housing arrangement so that there is some contractor to bring us to this expedition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u171	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator traced the situation very well. I may be able to come to this from another side. In the introduction, I said that it is only necessary to change the thinking and approach to the future and that the very structure of a variety of hibernations designed to make people close to other people, to serve, to exercise, is only active in everyday life. That's what this is about. We are to open up a wide variety of versions of such profits and funding. I'll come to this from one side. If we're looking at the funding of nursing homes, the gains of money as they are today - we're always fighting for this, in each of the budgets, and we're making notes of some kind of day's fees, based on some quality, good and good, we have to approach it somehow -- then we're, from the increase that lies ahead, with some 40 billion check to run it today. 2040 will be 90 billion in budget. It's just gonna kick something else out. It's right in front of us. Therefore, we need to catch this course and then follow it along with measures that will move us to these lofty goals that we set out. That is why it is inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u172	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for filing this council-sense proposal. I went to a little math and found out that it's the best. A minister could be in the pension when this plan ends, and I can be enrolled myself in an older citizen's Fégag. You see, yes, we grow old, and we need to make sure that those generations that cleared the way for us, our parents, our grandparents, those of us who still have them, are building a good future for them. I welcome most of the action presented in this council. But there's one thing I miss a little, and it's from chapter four that talks about active users. What I miss is a thing that was clearly added to the next bill we get to talk about, which is about the management of the Land Hospital, and it's listening to users. It includes listening to the health - care professionals, talking about listening to nursing homes and others who run these things. I miss the fact that we listen to old people, older people, because we're talking about how the service becomes to older ones, and they need to have something to say about it. They don't have anything to do with me without me, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u173	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Rafn The Ólafsson for this comment here and a tip about the very users and the importance of their approach. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator doesn't have to question my thoughts, and I will stress it, and we've talked about it, me and the highest. Social Affairs Minister, to this group, the representatives of this group will be included and the organisations that are the clients of this group will be involved in this work. It's just very important, and thank you for the tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u174	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and especially because it was very positive. Because I know it's the highest. Minister will listen, and I'll know this is going to be done. I just wanted to get in touch with a talk I gave earlier today. This is where we're talking about operations until the next 30 years - if I remember correctly said the highest. Ministers of the next five years first - that we are measuring all of this very well, that we realize how the situation is now, and in the Action Programme not only set goals that sound good and are beautiful words but, of course, measurable targets that have dates and costs and not always used in some of the primarys, ◯ This is within the schedule to us - we still want to know what it takes to do with a plan. The same is true of the preventive measures we were discussing earlier, that the data is new to run the plan so that we can measure what is being done and see the results, and that's just because we're in politics: it's really good for a politician or Minister to be able to say, "Yes, this is what I did. Here's the numbers that prove it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u175	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator resists. This is about your age and your ages and your users, if I'm just going to express my personal request, I'd like us to no longer define age in a number of fields. Blessed we are - because of reason. A senator entered older generations and the importance of preparing them for a good lifetime that brought us up and laid the foundation of so many in our society - more refreshing and more upon us. If we succeed in applying high standards of prevention and improvement in human health, whether we are talking about social, mental, or physical health, we may be able to look to such requests so that our ages should not stop us at all or at anything we are doing. We're not supposed to have anything to do with it. Of course, I think it takes a great change of attitude. Then we have to start making a lot of changes. But I think, in time, that will happen. Targets and measurable results - here we are to be able to do so. Here we should be able to set goals on how we approach this project because we can place prices per day in nursing homes, and we know exactly where the age groups are. Even if each individual does not have to be preoccupied with how old he is, or if he becomes a member of a age group, he just lives his life as he does, we can also measure it, if we can slow down the development of nursing homes, measure daily expenses, and save people from having to serve all day long, even living at home without service or needing day - to - day services. [[The president calls.]] We can put a price on all of this and thus measure the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u176	I'm not at the top of it. Minister should respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u177	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A clear description of the proposal presented here is provided by the health minister. There's an enormous means of parishion and opportunity in this suggestion, and I'm happy for her. It is, of course, responding to the fact that there is a joy, an average age, or we will say that the population's age is rising, life span, and the proportion of the elderly is rising that is due to improved life - styles, improved health care, increased understanding of the context of parts; the importance of water consumption, the importance of sleep, the importance of loyalty, etc. I think it's very important in this context to change the standards we've worked for so far, which are that people should stop working 67 years of age or at the latest about 70 if it's government, because I don't think it's for those who have a good job at all or do some interesting goal in themselves to stop working. I think there is a possibility that aging and real aging will start to rise and become faster. I want to, in view of our high trust in the highest. Minister of health and hope that he will complete as many projects as possible, ask when he may expect this policy group to be set up and this strategy executed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u178	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir My friend, Jakob Magnússon, for this good question that I'm about to start by answering. We've been going through quite a bit, me and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, and we are ready to have a memo on the accordion between the advisers we give to the Minister's Committee on conformity. There is a meeting that was supposed to have occurred, but it was postponed and it will be established for the next few days. As a result, we will appoint this group and just start this work so that it can be started, although hopefully this case will be here at the end of the 1st. To what? The welfare committee. That's the answer, as I know the situation is now, to this question that's good, and I look forward to following it. I agree with you, too. A senator about what I went into, that we stopped looking at some age limit, just work as long as we want, and start breaking down these walls to have age tied us into anything. I think I could still run into a football field, but it's probably over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u179	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This good plan and the good will involved will not change the fact that it is very difficult for families, families, and older citizens who are left alone. I mention an example mentioned earlier, which is the 92 - year - old father of the French people, raised in Olafurdir, has fostered her life there, and has spent years paying her own bills, while he has been on a waiting list to enter a real health service and has no house to save anyone other than his own daughter who now has enough to fill her mind. Once again, the importance of preparing us for the fact that only after 15, 17 years will about one fifth of the nation become a group of older citizens. There are many ways, e.g. The social thing. In the time of the Eygló Harðardóttir, a solution was created, which came up a bit in the shadow of the concern of home debt correction, with about 30% of the country's contribution and state to construction of social facilities, which should be built by this minimally acceptable requirement, which has, unfortunately, been running a place up here. The factor that targets spiritual stimulation and dealing with something exciting every day, music, chess, and I don't talk about the physical activity necessary - if I were a health minister, I would create a system where free access to a gymnasium for everyone. It's the best public health we can do with shame and shame. I'd like to hear a health minister's response to that idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u180	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator later answers. I think that's good enough. A senator began his talk with us, reminding us that while we are in high - sounding ideals about goals and visions, many pots are broken, and reminding us that our assignments are not easy. We have a number of people who have already had skill and health evaluations but who are not getting in and who need them. We must not jump off the bus and into those goals and forget the work. We need to solve it. Periodically, at the National Hospital, a number of treated people have performance and health evaluations but are not allowed to go in and blanket them in the hospital, we know them, and we're blocking emergency departments. These are just ongoing tasks, daily tasks, and we should thank you. A senator for reminding us. Then we should look to a variety of solutions, and thank you very much. The senator here for highlighting this strategy that led to the development of the then social minister, Eygló Harðardóttir. We are to look to both structure diversity, to include more people in funding, to look to the social funding, and to view also a greater variety of financing forms. I look at the pension fund in that regard. I think it is a very good investment to look increasingly, as other nations have made, for investments in personal property in its own form, as it were. A senator comes out here. But now, as exciting as it may be, I intend to respect the time of speech, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u181	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate this council mishap. The things in it are joyous, i.e. attempting to approach this important category of strong and faithful people and to abandon the indiscretions that have marked all of this. At the same time, when I read the suggestion's conclusion, it gives me a bit of a shock, as it is said that the suggestion is not expected to result in an increase in cost alone. I find it difficult to control the fact that the increase in services does not result in additional costs. V.E.G. A health minister mentioned that we cannot be piling everyone into a nursing home, and we know that, as a matter of fact, we do. V.E.G. A health minister also mentioned that we should be struggling in a land hospital where humble individuals could serve in other places, but they still need some kind of nursing service. Then you think of the building of a nursing home that is inexpensive of resources to save people in a hospital. I think we'll see the savings in investing in nursing homes, at least for some time. I'd like to mention that there was a contract signed on a nursing home in Smokejanestown, 2019. Building it has not yet been planned. It is as if the Management Board could create disagreements about something and something else to delay a project, but hopefully we'll start to figure it out. I would also like to point to a nursing home at the Cape of the Hornfjord because unexpected offers were so expensive that they could not be approached. There is a need for a nursing home throughout the country. I can't see that we can run away from that assignment even if we want to add more options that will benefit us for the future, and of course we should just be alert to it. As mentioned above, not all older citizens are in the same shape. We've got a real live rocker at 67 years of age, we saw one here in a pant a day that's not going to knock it off. There's a bunch of people like that who don't dance with accordion music, they're still in rock 'n' roll. These people are going to have fun, and we are to try to create a situation that allows people to have it as long as possible, that they can go into trouble and dance, and have good training. Then we will establish the preoperative actions that can be performed. I'd like to mention, for example, the Janus project that I think we all know as a Smokeytown, one of the blueest farm members in Iceland in their time, cleaned up, and has been inviting older citizens there. It's been going really well. People are very happy that the local community is doing such a job, offering this possibility, and it has helped many people, not just physically, but spiritually as well. Getting healthier physically changes your spirituality. There are provisions that we can take into account and work with which the older citizens, which are 67 plus, are important. But the foundation needs to be there. We discussed the former clinics as the first stop, and all we need to do is get into trouble. A little effort costs money. The basic services throughout the country must be strengthened, completely, so that people can search there. At the same time, as mentioned earlier, we have a variety of alternative options. We have a house - to - house ministry; there are two members who care for it, both governments and communities. The state has the home nurse, but the local community has social homework. Then these units argue over who to do what. No, you can visit them because they do not need to be given medicines, etc. In Rhinestown, we decided to sit down with the Southnesian National Institute of Health and review these matters so that these gray areas would not create a service card. The result was, not that the local community made money, but an increase in cost from the local community. But we accepted it because we thought it was normal and proper for people to receive the ministry that was right for them. We need to reduce the number of grey areas present. There's been loneliness here. I'd also like to mention drug abuse, which is a great deal among older citizens. People have anxiety and depression, fear of being alone, and medication is just given. There's something to do. We also know, perhaps something to consider, that the drinking of older citizens has been increasing. All of this presents challenges that we need to work along with. It's a huge project. V.E.G. A health minister mentioned that we could not always be putting money in our nursing homes and that we were dealing with this in each financial situation. The state created a solution to this group through the elderly. The state was making all kinds of loans, career insurance, road fare, and I don't know what they've taken into the state fund now, and it has to be replaced every year. The elderly who were supposed to be involved has not necessarily been used. He's been used a lot of times for business. It's not the Old People's Fund, it's the Old One. It's the Old Man's Fund. This has even been so that only half of the funds have been used in the development of a service program for older citizens. These last few years have only been greatly improved. But there you ask, " Why are paying taxes on people and then using them in another way? ' It's an acronym that should go into a particular cause, but it's being used in another. I want us to think about it and see how all of this is done. Then there's this farm plan that's been called here. It was a mistake when we closed the nursing home. We were all over the country with a so - called nursing home. When people lost their mates, they went to such established homes where older citizens were served, but they had their own car, and they just drove around and did everything they wanted. But then it all came to a nursing home. And the situation is nearing the end of your life when you get into a nursing home. That's the situation today, and then we're left with a big hole, those who don't trust to be alone but have to be around people to avoid loneliness and to rely on other people. That's where I think we can brush up our sleeves. There are words first. I am pleased with what this magazine says. I expect and I hope we can get it all through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u182	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his passage and number. I'd like to start last year with a chat. I'm just obsessed with the way we do things. Hv. A senator has often been involved in the services of residents of the area and how Southnes are given only limited service to residents in other areas. If we talk, for example. On health care the number of people in the area really does not have a family doctor. You begin to wonder: " What, then, is the situation of older people in the area who somehow have to make some kind of contact in order to qualify for service? We are now being referred to a great deal of health care, and there has been an enormous increase in this first - century service that we must attend because it is inexpensive. In case of a moment. A senator can teach us only about that position on the Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. It's two-way Southnes. There is, on one hand, contributions to the Southnesian Health Institute, which is not in any way involved in making donations to other institutions. I mentioned it in a drunk the other day that the Southnes are 21% of the country's population, but we only make 14% of the money, so there's clearly a discrepancy there. Nevertheless, I would like to state that the Southnesian community and health institutions have worked hard to carry out their ministry in their homes, both the well - being field at the Sverejanestown Institute for Health Services in Southnesia. There's nothing to complain about. The farm society itself also has a social rented apartment for the elderly, that's just a good deal of it. We've done well in the construction of a social facility at the city of Rhines, but there's more to it. We've been waiting to close a nursing home and reroute it, got 30 extra space, and pack 30. But we're just waiting and waiting, and that's the point. If we look at the whole area, it's not really people that we're offering. There's 30,000 people living in one health care facility. It's unannounced. You can't just say: We have a policy to solve it in some years. The 300 million who have gone through the budget, 200 last year and 100 today, are no good at building health care. That takes hundreds more. All you have to do is board your sleeves and work this thing and finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u184	I want to thank you. A senator for the record. It has become an amazing reversal of the funds of Smoketown's town during the season and will be those responsible just patting themselves on the shoulder for an extraordinary job. It was good to see that it was almost bankrupt in a rural society. But I'd like to discuss another matter, and it's the fund of the elderly and elderly. A senator came in just a bit. The elderly's fund operates on the basis of law on the issues of the elderly and is under the custody of the Department of Health because I know best. The fund has brought to taxpayers significant amounts of money, but the distribution of projects that are to be achieved by the elderly has not been in any way consistent with what is applied. I'm here with numbers from 2008-2020, I don't have 2021 on this. Then there are the numbers of government funds, or the Ministry of Health, without any less than 20 billion investments. It is 20 billion that they have not taken care of from this fund. It's a nose tax that all the people of the country have to pay for over a period of years, since I think, 16 years old. Why might the government decide not to count 20 billion at the same time, and there is a serious shortage of resources in nursing homes. People are kept in land hospitals in expensive space and inhumane, but 20 billion just rest there, or what? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these indications. I don't have these numbers so accurate, but I have no idea that it's not been given the money that is being collected specifically by people to attend to this particular group of things for which they were originally assigned. It has over the years been making all kinds of investments for government funds. I mention, for example, the non-employment fund, which was a large and large budget to finance unemployment insurance. That fund was just taken into the state's budget, and it's about to beg from the state's funds into this fund. There's no way we're doing it that way. The fact that we have been hanging around with the elderly's contribution makes us in a bad position right now. If that's true. One senator says that it has become 20 billion - it takes some 23/4 billion to build 60 compartments of nursing homes. Then we will see that we might have seven or nine extra nursing homes if the money had been spent on what they were originally assigned. I feel that governments can't ignore the fact that people are taking money to do some work, but it just says, "No, I'm going to use it for another. It's a strange control board, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u186	Madam President. There is every reason to celebrate this council-sense proposal that we are here developing a policy in the implementation of a health - care programme with the elderly until 2030. Of course, it is good when governments are planning to shape a global policy so that we can better match the least growing group in this age range, which is, of course, great because the only thing they tell us is when the age group, 67 years and older, is growing to such an extent that we have a pretty good welfare system, a good health system, and we live in a good society, so that they can live a long life. But I'm slightly afraid that this will be one more group and that there will be little more. There's a lot of things to think about, and I just looked at the reviews that came in with a word of advice when it was sent in there. It parks, for example. The work of Icelandic gerontologists focused on the fact that this policy will be highly addressed to professionals, service workers, and service employers. Since we have started speaking about speaking, and we are in the middle of it, as if we were talking about the rights of patients yesterday and today, the key point is to being discussed with those who are to receive the ministry, those who receive the ministry. That there is not to be made, as we have discussed today, a uniform plan for people whom we believe to act in some way, that they are interested in something, that all old people like to play bingo because we're all a lot of people, with extraordinary different interests and different needs, and that is also true of this group. There are also those who, unfortunately, are such minority groups that they have received very little attention, and I ask for the highest attention. A health secretary to have this in mind especially. There are older addicts and older people with mental problems. It was so interesting. A welfare committee during the last term when we were discussing perimeter groups. We were talking to a large group of service employers about those with a unique problem. Then we are talking about people - young and middle - aged - who are addicts and who have some emotional challenges. Then I asked: "What about older people? At that time, one highly valued person responded to the fact that there were no such ones in the group aged 67 years and older. Of course, we know better. The 67 - year - old group also includes addicts and mental - health professionals. There were farming options for this group, but I think they're completely gone, possibly because of this ide that not all of those in a more sensitive position should be put in the same place, they should be with others. These determined groups that need services can not be anywhere, may not be successful in such a highly established agricultural term, very well - established nursing homes, with sensitive people, possibly with some form of congestive heart failure and the like in the early years, and these groups do rather poorly together. Yet, there must be some means of escape for this group, even if there is a small number. I'd like to talk about a farm core I'd like to discuss with the highest level. Minister before. We also need to focus much on how we meet the needs of well - grown adults, how we meet social needs, the need for security because there is far too many individuals, widows, who live in a very large house, simply because there is nothing else. It is more expensive to keep out health care, home service that comes every day or three times a week, or whatever, in the case of so much distance between those who enjoy the ministry. I think we should try to make some kind of housing arrangements simply, seeing that we can create a core of service where there is a variety of services, possibly on the ground floor, as you can see it is being built around, e.g. in the selection area, where there is a job building on the bottom floor. It may include a hair shop, a restaurant, a restaurant, a meeting hall that can be rented, a laundry, cleaning, room for a health care professional, etc. There are some things you can have. But the difference between what we wanted to call it and what we would like to call it is that it isn't the population of these farms or apartment houses or what we want to call it, which pays the squares to the job house at the bottom of the hill, like it was always here in the past, where the contractors would throw all the money in their money and the square price on the apartment was high because it had to survive the cost of space where the service owner was supposed to be. Besides, if you as a service provider, whether you want to run restaurants or anything, how much more can you give the ministry to more individuals than those who live in this core! I think we need governments to join us in building incentives for contractors to build like this. This is practical for those who serve at home, to have many in the same place. This certainly is positive for the older ones who get company, can possibly go and meet people there, or just not, because, as we've been here, we won't be able to answer all that service need by building more and more nurses. That's actually impossible. At the end, I would like to mention that the load of care or care for the Icelanders of their elderly loved ones, long - suffering, and other family members are considerably higher in this country than in the European Union. There are 4% adults in Europe who have to care for all their loved ones. In the North, it's 3%, but in Iceland it's 9%. Of course, it is noble to care for loved ones in their old age, to care for them, and even to nurse them, but it is not to be overlooked that it is also the greatest incidence of disability among women over 50. It is not likely that any of them will have gone into disability after much care for their relatives and family members. This happens to women more than men. [[The president calls.]] So there is much to think of for those who receive this interpretation proposal to create a plan of action. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna get to come back up because I want to come on some other shows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u187	President. I just want to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for. I find what she was discussing about perimeters and older addicts. This may be a matter that is not often discussed and that could be taken much more space because it may be also the common group of people who suffer a great shame. People who are older citizens today grew up in a very different community than I grew up in, and understanding that attitudes were different and shame may well be increased as they grew up in other situations, where difficulties, such as addictions, were not necessarily addressed today. There's been a decrease in prejudice, but they're still there, and I guess they were a lot worse back then, so I think it's just really interesting, and I think we need to take a closer look at this group and discuss it with older people and older addicts and maybe be in touch with these people. Is there such a group, or has there ever been an established organization of older addicts? I know why. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u188	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I was trying to find the wide Internet report on the mass in this country, I can't find it. I know that it has only been shocked that older addicts have had some kind of long - term treatment, e.g. it's not for use. It's not for use. It's for treatment, but it's not for use. I also know that an elderly person in an active consumption of alcohol, an active alcohol consumption, entered a service core, lost his home because of his drinking. However, the person had an apartment and lived there, and this is the person's home, so the question is, Who will make the decision that a person cannot live there anymore? When will this happen to someone under 67 years of age? Of course, if it's hairney and disorder and all that, you can totally understand it, but I think the resources to actually serve the individual just aren't there. Of course, that's a terrible thing because they do, even though they don't exist. Of course, those who abuse drugs often suffer severe health problems and may not live as long as they can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u189	President. Thank you for the answer. It's very interesting to me when it's too late. A senator speaks of security and just living somewhere, being safe at home. That's what we're all looking for. That's what we want to give. We want society to turn us against it, that we give it to our children and to have sex, to whatever extent it is and to the older members of our family as we can. This is such an important part of it, i.e. How we can make this group feel as secure and yet do it so that they will experience themselves as part of a community and experience themselves as if they have a role. That is why I also find it remarkable. A senator was saying that living cores have all kinds of tasks that people could possibly do or be part of because older people need a role. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u190	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's great reply later, and he'll agree with it right away. A senator speaks of the importance of belonging and the importance of meaning that you wake up in the morning, that there is a purpose in going ahead and the like. Of course, it has to be that way because of loneliness - because everyone's so busy, so fast is whether they have families or not, whether their offspring live in the area or not - it's so important that they are some kind of social activity that is in order to receive all this mess and that I still name bingo. We have so extraordinaryly different needs, and then I think I should start by thinking this out of some kind of community, that there's some kind of company in the neighborhood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u191	A respectable president. One basic authority in each person's life is that he is confident of what he is doing and is secure in the environment he is in and also that he is confident of being able to provide for himself, to pay his bills, to live up to his taxes and duties, and to be an active member of the community. Then I come to the income of older people who, of course, are different. Many have been able to lay in savings, others not. Many people have some money in pensions, but because their pension system is relatively young in Iceland, many don't have much right, many low-payers don't have much rights in the pensions. But we have a system that's such that when you're 67 or older and you've been going through this pension system, it's like you're being punished, everybody should have just a $300,000 call. If you've had something a little bit more in the pension system it's just taken over the limit. Does this not affect people's well - being, and does this not have much to do with older ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u192	Madam President. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. All too little has been discussed here tonight about the economic situation of older people, their economic situation, and the possibility of living with dignity rather than living in poverty, as too many people do in those years. It is specific how governments, the government, have decided to draw this up. It's raising the pay market to 200,000 bucks. In a month, which is good. We really want to increase our effectiveness, and that's just an example. But they didn't even think about raising the income market because of a pension, and you wonder: " Why is it so important where the income comes from? Why is it not only possible for us to have more of a knife and a spoon and to provide for ourselves and his potential seed a pleasant lifetime, especially when we look at how long this is, in fact, how much more important it is for society to grow in the good years? It will eventually be much less expensive for society to increase the number of years in which you can be active, where you can care for and provide bountifully. This, of course, is a major goal we have to look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u193	A respectable president. Hv. A senator hit the head there, the origin of earnings seems to matter, where this income comes from. You can earn money, and it does not interfere, but taking out what has often been called a delayed income, it is a stable income - it is used to impair it. I want to think about the old grandmother, who may be 80 years old and she's grown all over, she's got lots of children and grandchildren, and she wants to give Christmas gifts to her children and grandchildren. Giving Christmas gifts to their grandchildren is only a substantial amount of money for older people. But that's where the prospects have been made. Can the senator imagine that we can change the fact that income's origin was important?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. My pretty good colleague, huh? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson called for a memo on this very issue today because of the Christmas budget. Seeing the financial cost of this, but also the use of it, was fascinating. The increase in pay-free rates doubled, only 3% of this group benefited. Hv. paritaprevir Einarsson asks me if I can see that this is equal and that I can also raise the money market for pensions. I'd like to answer that, so it won't happen on the watch of this government. I don't think that's gonna happen until my unit and my squad are down. A senator, the reform teams, gathers in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u195	President. Thank you. A senator for his first speech. I singled out one of the proposals mentioned in this council, which is about loneliness and increased activity and participation in older people. Now we all know how easy it is to shut down, get lonely. Now, especially in the last two years, it has been very difficult for older people to take advantage of leisure time, bingo, social association, bridge, and other options. I wanted to hear what it was. A senator would feel the need for us to do this right now to tackle the challenge of restoring these assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to say, even though I'm not very old, 50 years old, and like a day, I somehow find what has come out of practice by just being a social worker. I heard a quote from an older man in his 90's, pretty thrifty, that he'd rather leave covid than those fucking vices, so I'd quote him by permission of a president, because everything had been shut down. He could not go and meet his friends for lunch, which he always did, but they all lived in the same place and could not meet anyone. There were no guests allowed in, but they were not allowed to meet each other, and they got the food on the doorknob in plastic trays. It was so unbearable, and it took so long. So, of course, I'm worried about this, like all of us who are coming from this terrible epidemic. [[The president calls.]] We may all need to get a little winded up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u197	President. Hv. A senator talked about the core, the core of the house, or the core of the service, and other matters, and being in a campaign a year ago, I and others were invited to visit such nucleus, few who have been built. I was truly interested in how people of nursing homes, people living in their own homes, and people who came out there and offered services, offering association, offering food, offering meals, offering all these things together. I wanted to hear it. A senator: What is it that keeps us from doing this all the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. What's stopping us? I think maybe we're just too trapped in something that was. I think we just need, as a matter of fact, to be seen in the Congress resolution, I think it was done there rather than in some review I was reading - it just takes more innovation. It takes more variety, more ideas for this least - increasing and diverse group. As it happened earlier this evening, there are those in there, among the womb, the world cities that have wandered between countries, rock 'n' rolls, and gardeners. It's just everything, all the fools. We need to think about this in a larger context, be creative in our thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u199	A respectable president. Under budget of the year 2022, the government made a decision that has long been made to make a donation to special hospital services for the nation's aging and the ever - increasing number of services. This alone is something that works against every other objective mentioned in this program or what this is now, a proposal for the interpretation of a policy in the leading health - care programme to the elderly until 2030. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Ministers may consider changing the name of this piece, but it is now that some name changes do not change the nature of the objects. To be honest, I'm getting a little tired of this name-and-name romance. We saw it here in the last season that it took the highest. Ministers up the title of Children's Ministers and held a few press conferences on the subject of children and, yes, I'm not gonna take it away that it was made very timely and important things, e.g. taking the politics out of the child protection system, etc. But on the basis of it, he leaves many aspects of the earth simply on a stage in the affairs of children. We see that children's waitings for necessary basic services have increased, and the average waiting period has increased since the government adopted this title of child - care ministers. We can see that ecosystems and treatment homes are closed, and services are being transferred to private hands. A babyhouse is a long time apart, says director of the Children's and Family Room. Service is insurmountable. It is accepted a successful bill that will, at least if nothing has to be done, perhaps in the end the consequences of considering the burden of rural society, as has been done in the affairs of disabled and other cases. I mention it, and I go over it just to remind you that things can't change and for the better, just changing titles and names on Congress. Here we will discuss the proposal for interpretation of a policy in the management of health care programmes for the elderly, and this is an overexcited general document. There are no special issues involved. There is also no evidence that there will be any room for financial policy and financial planning of the government to finance some fundamental changes when it comes to health care for the elderly. We now received a preview of this in the budget talk, where, like I mention, this regular contribution was pulled away on absolutely imperviously low terms. It was somehow justified because it could finance better shift hours. But we do not change that our service weight continues to grow, and the number of people grows, and the nation grows old. This is not what we stop to develop, and we simply need to accept that all of this costs money. And where does this proposal fit into government financial policy? This is yet another suggestion, which suggests many beautiful words about improving and increasing. Yet, it is only a few weeks since the government adopted financial policy here, a management programme that assumes an enormous payment for the next few years. This is not because there is no room for good welfare in Iceland, a good public service. It's just because there's been a very specific budget policy that's taking on welfare services. This will make it very difficult for us, and this will make it difficult for us when it comes to health care for the elderly. The fact is, by 2026 the income will be the lowest in this century as a proportion of GDP. It's just a fact, and it's shaped by the spending range. It's simply the financial politics of this government, and we have to take it into account when we talk about it. Each time we hear beautiful words, we need to ask: " Where is the money to come from? I'm just a little worried that this is exactly what happens here, as in other cases, that some kind of service is going to be rolled over to the rurals. The state cleans its desk, and then you just point out the locals and say, "Look, these people don't know how to handle money. During the district week, we traveled in many parts of the country, the council, and we heard a little the same thing in many places. There is concern about residence homes in these areas, for services disappear because they are expensive. It speaks of reevaluating funding systems for living and long - term care in nursing homes, well and before Christmas, an additional billion were put in that service. But we know that there are billions more. Where are they to come from? There's no room for this in the current financial policy, unless there's nothing to be determined, e.g. the highest word. Enforcement secretary to place large increases in social housing, unless there is nothing to mark the promises that have appeared in Ministers' comments that they should revise the social security system and do better with the people there. So this may be what you want to think about and how this operation plan -- or this is not even a plan of action, it's a proposal to make a decision to shape a policy in leading to a strategy, how all of this will appear in a financial program after a few weeks. There I remind you of the words of a financial body that have pointed out that there is no agreement between a government contract and a government financial policy. In this or such policy, there are a number of factors listed. It is said that older people should have access to welfare services or that they will be added to specific support and resources to caregivers, nurses' housing that do not meet the criteria for improving equipment and personal space; regular quality monitoring will be done by all nursing homes; HI study centres and International Hospitals in GD. But then comes here at the end, with President's permission: The financial impact of the Parliamentary Directive is being carried out when a strategy is implemented for shape and treatment, within a task management form that will be established according to the aforementioned government contract on the government community cooperation of the Agency, Independence Party, and Left Company. In particular, we need to assess economic impacts on rural society... But when will all of this be available? Maybe it's in the third year term, something like that? Will there be financial support, or will we still need to evaluate it when financial programs arise after a few weeks what needs to be done? If we're not further than talking about some proposal for an action plan to be formed, do we not still have to examine all of this? At the end, I will point out that it is very important that the ministry be given at the right stage of service. We all know how people who were rightfully to be in nursing homes are in a sort of hostage situation at the Land Hospital, and this involves the cleaning of the ministry. So we see, I was just reading news that day, there are 144 people who are saved in nursing homes even though they are much less than 67 years old. It's the European Parliament, and tomorrow it's going to be at a Grand Hotel at 1:00, and I know it's the highest level. Minister will make a number. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is something that we must look to. It is not acceptable for people under 67 years of age to be saved in these institutions with the rights impairment because they do not have money and because they lack resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u200	President. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the funding of this strategy, I actually don't quite figure out the title, he doesn't quite understand. I don't understand those five lines around here about food on effect and whisk. A senator reviewed some of them. I can see so many things in here. Perhaps the main thing: A nursing home meets the quality that the surgeon's office highlights at a time. I know it's the highest. The minister was at a meeting of a financial committee when the nursing home came to the budget committee and explained how the Ministry made a contract with nursing homes for services that the surgeon then required, in effect, criticized the nurses'management for poor service that they are doing under the contract with the Ministry. Clearly, it takes much more when it comes to following the quality standards of surgeons. However, according to this section on impact assessment, this is of no value. I realize that this cost can be very difficult to value, but obviously it will cost something. This is just one of many points that I will consider in my talk below, these obvious points. I don't know how we're gonna get this. I'm half in each of the cases that come from the government, in fact, need to be corrosions, and to be loans at the same time, according to the amount of time they are supposed to take effect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If the matter is to be handled during a Senate hearing or a law, only money should be followed at the same time in a budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u201	The president reminds us that speaking time is only one minute in reply and response, but failure in time management caused a crash. A senator with more time than was expected, but that is not an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u202	A respectable president. What a remarkable reflection that is! Senator. If we just stick to the financial side, we can take as an example an additional inflation of 1.2% last year, i.e. that inflation proved to be 4.4% instead of 3.2%, resulted in an increase in GDP rate of 8.6 billion according to plan. We agreed to a budget just before Christmas, which was granted clearance for those less than 9 billion because inflation predictions had been so much more distant than what was really so. The bill has now appeared on budgets that I do not know when to arrive on the council program, but since December there are no financial contributions over the approval of budgets for 2020. What has happened since then? Yes, inflation predictions have rose with extreme inflation. The late bank prophesied in February that inflation would be 5.3% during the year. [[The president calls.]] That forecast is likely to be underestimated by the development of the last few weeks. [[The president calls.]] However, it is 2% higher inflation than the government this year. Then we have more than 10 billion on the extra cost of financial policy, and all the space in financial policy has exploded, just in terms of this trend. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How, then, will we finance all that is spoken of in this blessed draft?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u203	Hv. A senator had 30 seconds longer than the president had given him, and that is also not an examplemaker. Wait a minute. Councilmen respect this limited speaking period that we must have here in reply and in reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u204	President. Vasculitis and calculated size, e.g. Because the elderly are increasing, of course not included in the impact assessment, it is only part of demographic development, etc. But there are changes here, plans for education and training, and it will be more important to make up for the more recent shortcomings. So it's weird. - I will return the last 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u205	Yeah, I think I'll give back the other 30 seconds too There's nothing more to say about this, I agree with why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u206	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his speech. I just wanted to, even though this may not really have anything to do with it - because of it. A senator spoke about child - care minister and the successful bill is so remarkable that it seems that it is not entirely thought of, as if by integrating services, which are missing, e.g. capital for the speech. The sharing of services is to be initiated, and that is to be done with a painter and such, but there is no money to be taken care of. But okay. Then I'm going to talk about this money that needs to be followed, as when a law was given on subsidies of psychological services, but it didn't include funding. And what happens? Psychological services are not overdone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u207	A respectable president. I think this is just a very important comment, and it would be very bad if it were to take place in the affairs of the elderly who have already become children during the Supreme Court. Children's Minister for projects to be loaded to the unit level without adequate funding. I think it's a little vivid in the essay of this council-sense proposal how to react to comments, such as here: - No, where was that? What I'm saying is that this and this are being suggested. Then there's always some distant future on where money should come from, and it's not appropriate to deal with those questions in this Senate arrangement, etc. [[The president calls.]] So we don't know anything. It's very difficult in some way to make some assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u208	President. Now, I'm not an expert in the Congress arrangement or anything else but what I think is taking place here is that the amount of money in what is suggested and the importance of it, in light of the budget and everything, is not to suggest that the amount of money, that some kind of food is done on what is to be done, because these classes need to be raised in so many places, not even to suggest a suggestion that a possible amount of money is made. It's just really hard to believe this is getting better. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u209	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with you more. I'll just take it for example: ▪ Many of the accounts made it clear that there was no need to improve the quality and condition of nursing staff and the care of the elderly. The Ministry did not consider their interpretation to be a stage for reviewing the matter. It also says that there was a comment that would have to be added to surgery 6, a premeditation of a staff to solve the financing of nurses'housing expenses. The decision was not to discuss housing matters during the synonym but to emphasize the ministry. It remains that we are talking about a proposal for a resolution of a policy developing in the implementation of a strategy that is not being handled with any questions about funding or care or the services to be provided. What, then, remains? Why, then, are we even talking about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u210	A respectable president. There is a lot to think about in this end, it's a big and big subject, and you can't quite put your arms around all these things. I cut by one in a speech of two. A senator, speaking of 160 Icelanders being placed in nursing homes despite much younger ones. Today, on ruvri, you can read about a 59 - year - old woman who is living in a nursing home with those 90 years of age. It is a form of service that is to be used by older citizens who are not yet available but are, of course, only under the responsibility of the government. [[The president calls.]] Does this mean that there is something that is not there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u211	Mr. President. This is very serious, and there may be two things to consider. There are disabled people who may be much younger than 67 years old saved in nursing homes for the elderly, at such a kind of terminal stop, instead of being fulfilled in the service and service need, as if to be fulfilled under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Nurse homes are an institution. It is clear that some of the rights of people are affected by moving in there. This also has a degree of freedom, and people are put on a wall. Here's the only option available for you, you're supposed to be with people who, as they call them the title of the OBI seminar, come to the end stop, young people to the final station.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u212	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There is also another group that is not mentioned in this regard. So that we are importing tens of thousands of foreign residents into the country, and many of us become old in Iceland, but often we are not associated with society and may need other services and services. I don't see that this group is making any particular part of this operation program. I don't think we can overlook the fact that this group is now employed and in a job market is going to be part of an old group in Iceland and need a special service. See what? A senator of any means in which this group can be cut off?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u213	A respectable president. I think this emphasis on increasing home nursing and home service is very positive, but we need to be careful that people are not put in situations where loneliness is growing. That is why we need to consider, too, that there are a wide range of farm plans for older people. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir came in on it earlier, and this is actually true of all groups, and it may not be the least of the groups for which something is isolated. I thought it was a pleasure to get to the top. In effect, a health minister undertook these ideas on the importance of a wide variety of planning for older people in their talk here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u214	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson for his speech and introductory discussion. I would like to present and correct things that I covered in my story for an explanation, both from the talk and also from the answers to the prices of this proposal. I want to make sure that this is a vision and a different approach to health care with elderly people. Following is the title, and that explains it. The senator began his speech on, this heavy title in the implementation of the Action Programme - that a task group will be established which will follow, then, as part of the policy process. There, prices will be put on the activities proposed in order to achieve goals. [[The president calls.]] It is, therefore, only natural that such goals are not worth the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u215	A respectable president. Of course, that's a lot of thought. I may be able to ask back, "Do you think so? " That in the fifth year of a government set up by these three categories, we are still in 2022 discussing a proposal here at the Parliament's Hall for a resolution of a policy in the implementation of an action programme, and we have not begun discussing how to finance things? I also get to ask back, "Do you think you're the best? " Minister to the frameworks left behind in financial policy at the highest. Is it enough for governments to have any hope that these phases of action can be carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u216	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. He's kind of turned my answer up, so you get a little nutty here right after midnight. But the simple answer is yes. I am very closely following these procedures, which show up in this, that the Council concluded a change of vision to achieve goals and will be followed by a plan of action where we put prices on things. I considered it well in my discussion that if we don't change this approach, we'll face even more challenges than we already have in funding the resources available for the changed nation's ages. There's a lot of stuff going over here. Of course, we are talking about visions and goals, but it is necessary for us to start a road trip and to control the important group of subjects discussed here. I just wanted to make a point, and I thought it would be reasonable that here we are not talking about the price for such goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u217	A respectable president. What might disturb me here is that I just think it's a little late for my butt. It refers to visions, roads, and goals. Now it's such that society's highest company. Minister, commander. Minister of child care, came in quite vigorously into the council during the last term, at its beginning, with visions, aims, roads, and other fine phrases that served children. What do we see four years later, three to four years later? Waiting lists are longer than ever before. They have increased almost every year of this government, and average waiting time has increased too. We see that the Children's House is, as I mentioned earlier, quoting the director of the Children's House and Family Room, a long crack. Homes are being closed. [[The president calls.]] I must not conclude that the same situation will occur when health care with older people is introduced, that goals and visions will be set in motion, and then everything will be up for the next few years because the government does not trust to place money on projects and priorities, and that it will promote the interests of real state political politics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u218	President. There are some good things in this proposal, but there are other things I miss. The mental health of the elderly -- yes, it is spoken of isolation, and it is spoken of loneliness, but the problem is so much larger than that it works only one sentence on the problem and it is embellished, I feel, down into something small that is not a very big problem. At least that's how I see it. I don't know what it's like, but that's how I see it. I'd like to grab a little bit of an article from the medical paper. I don't have any new numbers, but it says that by 2018, 55% of the population of nursing have an anxiety or depression. The administration of antipsychotics was 72.5% within the nursing home. The most commonly used antidepressants were antipsychotic medicinal products, with a frequency of 26% receiving antipsychotic medicinal products, 18% receiving consistently without diagnosis. Without analysis. We don't even have people analysis, and the staff may not know how to react or what to do because they lack resources, they lack efficiency, they lack so many things in the nursing homes. This is so inexpensive that 18% of the population regularly received antipsychotics without diagnosis in 2018. I don't have any new numbers, I don't know if it's changed, but somehow I suspect it's not like that. There were 22.3% of patients taking antipsychotics in other cases than recommended. Now I don't know how much antipsychotic knowledge there is, but there are very strong drugs and can have an additive effect on the physical function in so many ways. There were over 50,000 individuals in this study. The point also significant is that age modification affects antipsychotic efficacy and studies do not confirm positive long-term efficacy in the elderly. The elderly are sensitive to the harmful effects of the medicinal products that are increased by the use of multidrugs. The use of antipsychotic medicinal products should be based on careful psychiatric evaluation. It's just that way. However, there is no mention of any drug or drug use in this field. How can you deal with this? How is this to be done in a right way and in the best interests of the people? Of course, giving to those who do not have mental - health medications always has to be very well - thought - of. All side effects need to be taken into account, and as follows, research does not show that this has a positive long-term effect on people. What's going on in the nursing homes? Do we know? This is all I have, and I'd like a lot more information. I think things need to be over-thinked, especially mental health and drug use in this group. I'd probably stand here all day if I was going to talk about all the adverse reactions of antipsychotics, especially antipsychotics, but it might just have to wait a little bit more time. It is necessary, as in so many other categories of health care, to develop resources, different measures, and to think things differently. The way we care about our people needs to be swallowed up. What do we know? What effect is it having, e.g. that people are isolated? Yes, science shows us and studies have shown that it may shorten people's lives by four or five years. We know. We need to focus much more on the fact that older ones and others in our community are not isolated and are not lonely. I think it is a noble goal to focus on loneliness and try to reduce it to this group. But the problem is so much bigger than that. Loneliness sounds kind of cute, but no, it's not cute, it's very serious. There is only an amazing amount of antipsychotic and drug abuse that can not even be proved by diagnosis. How can that be all right? Let's talk about suicide. In 2010/2020, 105 were 60 years of age and older who took their own lives. There are 105 individuals 60 years of age and older who decide that it is better to end their earthly course. The lack of special consideration for mental health, mental - health, mental - health, and drug abuse of the elderly in this regard makes me feel unwise. I don't know if there's any information on this problem or what it is, but I think that lifts need a cast on that category because it's clearly something people can't handle in health institutions and nursing homes. I think workers there are doing their best in impossible situations and drug abuse there are some kind of disability in a society that doesn't offer suitable options. There's a plan to be developed. It needs to create a community and an environment where older ones want to be part of it, and we welcome them to be part of our community. Not: If you are this old, you should stay in a nursing home and be so good at taking your antipsychotics. No, at least it's not a community I'm going to live in, and I encourage everyone to look into it with these eyes and see how it affects people on a lot of antipsychotic drugs and maybe many at the same time. I wish I had some information about how many antipsychotics each one was on. I realize that sometimes people need to be on medication. But should we not rather focus on investing in activities, investing for purpose, investing in something, and asking: " What would I like to do? What are my dreams and desires? When you are elderly, you still have dreams and desires, perhaps wanting to do something and wanting to have a chance to do so. Let us be critical of the use of drugs by older ones, let us be critical because individuals want to have roles and will have opportunities of every kind, as we have seen today. I encourage all to keep this in mind when considering how we can better care for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u219	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the opportunity to give an answer to a talk. A senator who shares interest in me, which is mentally healthy. Here, the senator discussed a tremendous amount of drug use in this age group that we are considering and an enormous amount of antipsychotic use. Because we were earlier tonight talking about some complete file that could be viewed and monitored for how things work, how the health system works, how the health system works, monitors the outcome as well, you can monitor it and the development of some kind of disease or something, and then you wonder about it: What is the plan when a person has many types of antipsychotics but no total treatments, no advice, no chance of obtaining a psychological service or a very limited dose, but you have a bag of all kinds of drugs that he is given to consume anxiety, insecurity, loneliness, fear, fear, fear of what will be, fear of poverty and happiness? And because now I know why. A senator is a psychologist, isn't he? " Could this age group be less looking for some sort of mental - health service?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u220	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for her counter-sponsored response. Yeah, I think it's definitely that way. And when you find yourself in a nursing home, perhaps there are many physical illnesses and things that can stop you from coming to a psychologist or looking for it. Besides, I want to talk about generation sex, and we need to be alert to the fact that it's probably from young people today to go to psychologists, there may not be any problem with people who grew up at other times, since it was not a personal thing. We also need to draw this line from which we are involved and how we can best draw close to him. This may not necessarily be part of therapy, a total therapy with a psychologist, perhaps for some but not all of them. We need to discern the best way to approach this group and how best to have a conversation about feelings and loneliness with this group. What is the best way to carry out our ministry, and how will we measure it? We need to start from scratch and look at these things and, of course, talk to the people in nursing homes and ask, "How do you feel about these medications? " Do you want to take some medicine? Do you think it's good or bad? We need more attention from those in the nursing homes and into everything else that has to do with them. It's a huge number, but maybe it's a lot of people who just feel better. We don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u221	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is also one question that you would like to have the first question when an older person goes into some kind of service, whether in a nursing home or in a local service, and we see some sort of distress and something is happening to the person, this psychological service, mental service, is in earnest, whether it is a psychologist or someone else who can give the interview treatment, and may not just ask the question: What is wrong with you, what is your problem, but what happens? What makes you feel this way now? What happened on the way? Did something happen to you, you lost someone close to you, you suffered violence? And speaking of violence, there have also been disturbing reports of violence to people who are saved from closed aging wards. And because we talked about monitoring health care earlier today, and I received answers from the highest level. Minister that there were two standing values for the surgeon general who's supposed to monitor all health care services in Iceland, I think there's clearly a danger. That there are special groups in a more sensitive position that need to be monitored, especially in these closed wards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-15-52.u222	President. Fortunately, the rest of us who are sitting here can't put ourselves in those tracks at least not today. I don't know if anyone's ever been in this situation. But what about being in a nursing home, perhaps in need? Nursing, thinking under compulsion, predicting medication, and predicting the position in which these people are in. and how it feels. I can't put myself in these steps, but I can imagine it isn't very powerful or encouraging to you to have the energy somehow to look outside and look for your rights. This is a very sensitive group that has entered a nursing home, and all kinds of emotions can be accompanied by being in that position. People who are getting older and feeling pain here and there, this can have a profound effect on their mental health. It would be interesting to know what it's like to do. How is it decided, if you are not for example. with psychiatric diagnosis, who receives and how to follow these medicines, and how to predict side effects and how they are affected. We know, for example. that if people who are very old and are ill, they break themselves or suffer other injuries or illnesses, it is harder to recover than the rest of us who may not have reached that age. Then you wonder: " What about these medicines and their side effects? What are they? So I think we need to re-examine the whole thing.
