ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u1	A respectable president. Previously, there were outlaws in the Icelandic community of criminals. But now a group of people have been exiled from our rich society just for getting sick, injured, or just for being old people. There are large groups that have significantly worse mental and physical health, their health is getting worse, and they also have the potential to meet unexpected expenses, and the above traumas caused by Covid-19. The domestic affairs of these outlaws in Icelandic society are rapidly getting worse, especially in renters. Some people have the right secretly to live a decent life, but that does not apply to this group. 200 microloafs are exiled from their homes because of illness, transporting cripples to nursing homes for elderly people. Or if they try to escape the country, there will be a decline in the form of household satisfaction and other benefits and support. These people will not be allowed to live a better life abroad: No, you will not be allowed to escape the country, become outlaws, without a large brother, the government, punishing you financially so that you will be in very poor condition. Elderly people pay all their time in a pension fund. How, though, does it be treated? Yes, it's also a move to medical institutions in the country, and the reason is said to be Covid-19. And also, a large portion of the pension fund, which is legalized, property-created. The worst word in the Icelandic language is used of older people who are ill in the hospital. Is it not time to stop using such foul words about our aged people who have built up this land?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u2	A respectable president. Once more often, I come here to discuss careful legislation and careful management here at the General Assembly. The contract and processing of the Parliament needs to consult with the major economists and scholars so that basic viewpoints can be obtained, and it is of no less importance that we here at the council are given sufficient time to avoid making mistakes, sometimes irreversible. Sadly, at the beginning of the term, we are immediately seeing the opposite in the practices of the government. During the last term, there were cases of confusion, either knowingly or not, that were handled by law. This morning it was reported that the EU has confirmed the violation of environmental assessment legislation in the United States, while the matter is being taken care of by the Parliament on a fish-gain bill taken very quickly on one day in 2018. This is a very serious matter and shows the government's view of environmental decision-making. At that time, the environmental minister of Ingi In Guðbrandsson claimed that there was nothing to worry about, and that was the case. Today, the United States government and, of course, the Icelandic public find themselves in violation of the law. The same was true regarding the National Court case and the order of judges who served as ministers here, one by one, claimed to have been within the law, and all in accordance with the rules of law, but all the courts, from abroad, came to the opposite conclusion that there had been a clear violation of the law. A respectable president. It is not a sign of good government here on a terrible project. Even worse is pressured by the Council of Law, which has irreversible consequences and often results in considerable cost to the European public. Mr. President. Let us be more careful, for that is what happened to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u3	A respectable president. I'm here today to call attention to and celebrate a change in the regulations of health care costs and those within the country at this time of the year. Thus, from the end of the year on, health insurance for Iceland contributes to the travel cost of repeated travel in terms of prevention of malignancies in individuals with a significant increase in risk of these diseases due to genetic factors. During the last assembly, I repeatedly called attention to the status of people after their dwelling if they have a negative BRCA gene and are using health care prophylaxis in line with local recommendations. The cost of frequent travel in relation to BRCA monitoring and action may be massive for each individual. For example, there can be an estimate of 8 in the context of risk minimisation measures. Only the cost of travel can be between half and one million. The number of passengers may also increase, and beyond that, it is the cost of living. I would like to use this opportunity to commend individuals and organizations who have fought for improvement in these but also governments for having reacted. It is unacceptable, however, that each individual must fight for his rights or change will wait until someone who has the energy to fight for progress. It is essential that the rules for reimbursement of the urban transport costs and the need to seek specific health services to the capital area are reviewed along with the development of the ministry. It could not be that people in the country should be in a position to make decisions about health care in view of travel costs and economic situation. Here was an important step to balance the situation with a change in regulations. It's supposed to be a celebration. Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u4	A respectable president. For the past two years, restaurants have faced a very difficult situation, and still, I don't think any human would have thought of it or expected to get the entire loss of income completely improved. However, many of the companies in this sector have bloodied greatly during this period and their own money to grow up, even over the savings of many companies because of the very burdensome measures that have affected them. Businesses feel a great deal of the limits they have been in but behind them, such as other companies in the country, are individuals and families. The contribution process and start jobs were quite useful to these companies. In terms of other measures such as lock or drop-down income, those of whom I have been looking fully agreeing that there have been complex development and heavy production, and in many respects it was impossible to pass through that hovering system without assistance of an accountant with the related costs. A new enterprise has little hope, based on older management statistics, which sometimes do not exist or are nonremarkable for meeting restrictions on the population around the start of a business. Many were also amazed at the criteria of closing boxing. Why isn't someone looking like that? to genuine costs, including by watching bills from that period for rent rents, heat, electricity, and other management costs that should be easily tested? In this way, there is a better picture of a real loss that can be encountered in some way. A respectable president. Of course, in a pandemic, we face a difficult situation, many of which are listed as well as social problems. We need to keep on responding. We stepped here at the council yesterday. We need to continue, do better, and respond very rapidly to the challenges of these companies and their sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to do this today that the subject I brought up in an unprepared inquiry to the health minister last night, asking the highest degree. Minister to his research duty and in what way he would have carried out it in connection with decisions involved in the treatment of disease prevention in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic. I thought it was the best answer. The minister of the redness is relatively thin in this respect. I continued to look into the notes of a psychiatrist. And certainly they are available on the board of directors' webs, which require a number of handwork to pick them up. I'd like to ask for it at the highest. The President that the council will take it together so that a complete list of memos will be available in one place for the public and members of the council to understand and also that an analysis will be made of the time when proposals will be made. Minister of health from a week away from the motion of a disinfectant and what events were not. In the context of government action, however, there have been reports of problems with information. It's a slow game for the highest. However, it will be easier for a president to understand the information available, how decisions are made, and how to reason, and how to do so. The minister of health has carried out his field of research.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u6	Mr. President. At the same time, the health - care network has had serious consequences for both people and businesses in other areas. Of course, the big project is a well - funded health system, and the government is actually doing a very large amount of work. They have had plenty of time to respond, but health professionals are exhausted, and they do not see fair improvement in the working environment, much less stress paid for their jobs. This situation makes it increasingly difficult to take action that involves people's freedom and employment. Many people have lost their jobs for a long or short time, and the most efficient ones are now from the cultural sector, the art sector, and the food sector. They may simply give up, not relying on these articles and the uncertainty and the financial risks that come with them if they cannot do anything about them. In a recent report, 20% of the women, mostly women, disappeared from cultures in the last two years. The owner of restaurants also calms the brain on the job and staff. I sincerely hope that the new action being made will bring relief, but this long - standing uncertainty and weakening of the articles would have a very serious impact on us, not only the economy and the tourism but also the quality of life of our people. Let's encourage the government. We need to take on a much more severe course of action, and this is not just a quality of life, it is also a major economic issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss in context some news that has appeared in the last two weeks. The first report arrived just during the New Year's Eve in the country and the number of patients last year, 807 flights in the United States last year. About half of the patient's flight is called F1 or F2, when patients are alive or in serious situations. This is the second - largest number of medical flights in Iceland and it is apparent that activities in the country, industry, are about to complete, based on how this year develops, compared with the total number of 2020 Covid years. At the same time, the city's main organization is adopted in which Reykjavík is scheduled for an airport to 2032. It was just approved a few days ago. Previously, the North / Southway was only due to be 2022, but in the same year it is extended to 2032. This situation is literally completely intolerable, that we should always be thinking about it for such a short time, and there is a constant uncertainty about this important factor, such as. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is what just arrived from Reykjavíkurburg, but at the same time, a government report on land landing sites will arrive at a national medical flight, an excellent report on the Council's Web site at this time of the year. It highlights the importance of strengthening and building specific locations in Iceland's hospital flights and should welcome that discussion. But it is evident that there are differences in what humans have to do with the means of transporting patients by flight, which is extremely important in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u8	A respectable president. The Treaty of Germany's new government, adopted at the beginning of December, states that the European Union will continue to work toward the goal of an independent relationship. True, it's not the German first call for a European state, but I know it's the first time it can find its way into a German government contract. So much news from this influential and populous European Union. The development in the European Union has undeniably been towards a vast increase in fusion. Nevertheless, it would be informative to hear the position of the EU members here at the General Assembly, the Syndicate and, equally similar, restoration which was founded solely on the position of the EU, these dreams of their German brothers and sisters, dreams of their own European state. Pirata's position may well be. More dark. As follows: How does the EU category here at the pan-European state and this water cycle benefit countries in the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to make it my subject's importance, especially in democratic terms, that we have an open and pure discussion about our situation as an epidemic society and how we deal with the epidemic. Then, after the two years of the epidemic, we have the courage to take the discussion from a number of viewpoints that I feel is limited only to the cohesion of the disease. You can only feel it in the community that asking questions is a little bit of a step on a dangerous path. But we have to, we just have to take this discussion. I must say, and I can say that in many ways the government has failed to keep the discussion more concerned about the consequences of the limitations, how to deal with them. There, too, we need to start talking about the aftereffects. Because the discussion is a bit much about employers and how we should keep our jobs going - yes, for people to keep their jobs. You see, that's the thing. A considerable number of people may then be paid a small salary that has fallen out of work and needs support to get back to work, but they may have paid just 70-80% in the past two years and yet did not earn much money. What is the result of this social and spiritual influence, and how will we deal with it? And just questions such as doctors have begun to ask now: Is it better to use the staff to provide services in the medical system or to take samples and other such? Is it better to use money to build up our health - care system, in mental - health matters, than to use it in these extensive tests? We must have the courage to accept this discussion, the media, the general members, and the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to look our eyes outside the cliffs. The people of Tonga, an archipelago in the South Pacific, are now dealing with the consequences of eruptions. Tonga is probably as far from Iceland as possible, but I hope we can relate to the people who live there. We know the consequences of natural disasters and volcanic eruptions, the fall of ashes, the earthquake, and all the noise that comes with them. Let us not forget the residents of Tonga, but let us not forget Afghanistan, a land on the brink of human famine. Can we put ourselves in the Afghans' shoes? That's a good question to ask. Iceland has been in close cooperation with the government in Afghanistan for nearly two decades in the field of NATO and the United Nations. There we have been involved in building up following war and, in fact, decades of conflict, while the Taliban has returned to power in Afghanistan, thanks to an incomprehensible and unforgivable agreement made with them by the U.S. government. Trump blocked the elimination process, and Biden was all that was needed to issue the order and the U.S. Army and their allies were removed. Another piece of work is hard to find in Afghanistan's tragic history. President. Women have been taken out of the game in Afghanistan. Anyone who may have fled the country or who is out of need during house arrest or hiding. Afghanistan's property is frozen. That means that ordinary people can't go to the bank and get their money because there's no money in the banks. More than half of Afghana, nearly 25 million people, needs emergency assistance now and has no idea where the next meal will come from. As always, children suffer most and die first. This disaster could have been prevented, it's man's work, and Iceland is also responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u11	President. At the beginning of the week, at least six avalanches fell in a spray pine slope and is mild - tempered not to be harmed by human beings. Bragi Thoroddsen, co-pilot of Sólggarvík, described the situation in Singsavík as unbearable and even said: About that: But when people are getting out of the woods some time ago, it seems that whether they come from rocks or avalanches, they're just now so that someday someone doesn't get away. It is important that the Minister of State and the Council ensures it on transport and with the necessary budgets that there will be an attack in the Slyslík, between Eelfafjörður and Skullfjords in Isafjörður. That tunnel can't stand longer waiting. Then there must be immediate support for avalanches in the Church's Bols and Sussavírds, ensuring roads against rock and mud slides until the soil is finished. In addition to ensuring the security of people, such tunnels will involve a revolution for the community and will open up further opportunities for the development of employment and community life in the area. It is important to note, then, that the government's policies on energy change are incompatible with the aim of the Irish to burn fossil fuels because of the humble scheme of the Landsnet and the unwillingness and usefulness of Orcs Vestafans to improve the supply safety and supply of electrical energy in Suspray. A cable song through a tunnel would be safer and less expensive and weighed against the cost of the tunnel. In addition, energy exchange lies ahead of ports and transports that are almost impossible compared to supplying electricity in Susavík, less than 2 megawatts. The tunnel will ensure the transport security of people, open a good access to the future construction of buildings, promote sustainable construction of jobs, and create an even greater opportunity for growth in the local community. Right here is where we need to act. There are so many things to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u12	Mr. President. Now, the General and Education Committee has reviewed the artist's awards legislation. What beats me at that job is the vague purpose of the prize. On the one hand, it is the social view that artists have limited pension rights and therefore it is supported by artists who have spent their careers in art. However, it is the view of honor given to an artist for great success, both in Iceland and even in a foreign field. These views simply do not always go together, and I would have felt that there would be other battles in the field of unions, within that part. However, it is a valid word, honor, when giving honor. I'd like to access the number of mails that we got here before Christmas, which were worth paying for. A story of honor comes from as far as 1890 or so, and we certainly live in a different community today than we did. The waves of the #metoo movement have passed over the past few years, so we must celebrate. Now I've got a lot of mails and many indications that it's not appropriate for that wave to enter the list of artist's awards. So I just want to ask you, " What's different with artists than football players or business leaders? ' Why are artists less responsible? The review of the law is important. The first steps have been taken, and I hope we reach an acceptable conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u13	A respectable president. We have been doing a little since the outbreak began calling because the council has more access to the measures being taken and has a role in the process of reviewing these issues. We were asked at the time for a health minister to be given here every two weeks a general report on the disease control status. But we've taken it a little further by sending the President of the Generals a letter asking us to have a health minister and financial minister, and after the events of other ministers, to report the same day or as soon as possible following the introduction of certain disease prevention procedures or extended by the government. Then we request that reporting include information on the basis of decisions, the expected results and impact on society in other ways and that it will be informed on the same day or as soon as possible what measures will be taken to deal with the economic and social consequences of decision-making procedures at one time. It's not just a group of reveries that's been called after this in the council in the past few months, there's been more members of the council. It was noteworthy to hear an excellent speech. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year before, since he very correctly pointed out that the government has gone a little crazy when it comes to granting the council the opportunity to support the Commission. Then I'd like to respond to a question raised by a seizure. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. I don't like Europe being transformed into one medium-sized and subjugated state, but I'm impressed by the fact that Europe has a strong cooperation in which civil rights, human rights, social justice, and economic progress are put in place rather than by the isolation and capitalism that are often referred to in the halls of the Generalis. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u14	A respectable president. Like many other countries, domestic violence is a complex end. Violence can be spiritual, financial, physical, and sexual. Although more apparent physical injuries are recent, spiritual violence has been shown to cause just as much harm as physical violence, but proving this is harder to prove. Often, children are involved, and children themselves are not exposed to violence or are directly exposed to it in order to suffer. The consequences of domestic violence for children are serious and can reach adulthood. How important it is, then, that a child avoids suffering from any form of violence! Parents are under the law to protect their children from violence. At least One parent of a child is considered prescient if the child is generally not protected from the problem, and the appropriate parent is to protect the child from violence, to be suspected. The problem is that the system that parents are designed to consult, their child's protection, is viewed, not as a protection issue for the child, but as a dispute between the parents. Legally, there are some ways that parents deal with what becomes the opposite of the issue, of foresee, of bad habits, and of association. We've built a system where children who live under violence fall between ships and docks. They need to be secondary to the issue of controversy between adults, even when there is no disagreement about whether or not the use of violence has been used. In such a system, parents whose only goal is to protect their children from violence, as laws require, are completely impossible to fulfill that law. So I ask: When the system sees parents in this position as peers in disputes and as opposers that need to be reconciled, who should look after the child?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u15	Mr. President. Iceland is an island, but not an island in a nation. Your heart hurts when you listen to what you have to say. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardd is discussing the situation in Afghanistan and the little children who live in the midst of a garbage dump every day. We who live in Iceland don't know what this is. We don't understand. We wake up to work in the morning, take our children to school, and live in an almost protected environment. When you think of the landstones, you see children in a refugee camp who do not enjoy the benefits that you believe are natural and right for children to be offered. I would like to commend the government for having added to the number of Afghans being received, which is to receive mothers and children who are on the run. Of course, it's great that it is happening, but we can do so much more. I'd like to mention the hosting of refugees in Iceland. Many people live in a very bad mood at the old military base, with little thought for them. There are a small number of rural communities who are willing to accept refugees, and this is a disgrace, in effect, to this Icelandic reality. I view all of us as responsible individuals for the way people fare in this world, and we are to shoulder that responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u16	Mr. President. Does anyone wonder if the Landspians are dealing with economic and physical problems, as can be said of the whole health system? The health system is subsidized. The problem in the health system is the result of prolonged failure and the positive fact that the nation is growing older, with more and more people reaching a high age. I view the fact that I don't have to pick up your sources and numbers to argue with them in this brief discussion. These facts reveal various reports and analyses. In addition, all of us have witnessed in the pandemic how hunger policy over the past few years has affected our health system, which has led to the lack of opportunity to cope with trauma and to the removal of Iceland's health - care system as far as health, quality, and access to health care are concerned. It is a starving policy that the present government is going to continue, although it is a complaint against all who want to see that this trend will prove to be a very costly pandemic. A call for extra money on health care responds to the government by establishing a postmortem requirement. They are not to deal with serious design problems or to provide special funds to deal with the aging of the people. The government must be able to think outside the pandemic and under emergency measures. They must set up plans to meet the challenges of more older people who need health care and the need for staff to care for those who need care. Already budgets for the year 2022 are available, where large amounts of money increase from year to year to the Land Hospital go to building and paying and paying, it is clear that the hospital has to cut down a service to stay within the budget. It is estimated that the cutout will be about 1 billion and 600 billion. K. National Hospital executives have noted that to maintain the same level of service during the previous year, there is an added stress on population growth in 2022 and the aging nation. This is the highest. Full - time minister must therefore have some idea of what to give in service to patients because of these decisions made by the board of directors. Where to Cut Down? In response to the highest possible response. We'll expect a minister to know all about that. Mr. President. Healing problems in the health system have been increasing each year. Healthcare professionals were under great pressure for the epidemic, but now they have been driving a back route. For example, people do not make vacations, such as Christmas work, birthday celebrations, and maternity vacations. Those who need medical attention wish that health care professionals have had a good night's sleep, are well - fed, and are vigilant in their work. Sadly, today it is not possible to do so. What plans do governments have for improving the situation? Something big has to happen. Not only is there an increase in the pay of health care professionals but work position, improve their well - being, and reduce their stress, reduce the risk of job coldness, and make mistakes because of stress and stress. Improvements are urgent so that health care professionals stay at work and those who have left the medical facility want to return. There are ways to increase the number of students in working school. The health system will not be improved unless these measures are under operation and must begin immediately on action. Mr. President. The health - care providers of the country pointed out that the services of experts to the inhabitants of the country were highly divided by local dwellings. Some health agencies in the country have been tempted to take money from other business workers to obtain expert physicians. This difference in access to expert services contributes to an even greater improvement in community balance. It would be best for the Landspians to ensure regular visits by some specialist physicians to the national parts of the country. What's going to happen? A health minister to balance the status of the people in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u17	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir is an important and perfunctory discussion of the status of the medical system. The pandemic we have been walking through for the past two years has been a real challenge to the system, and it was a challenge enough before. And we're going to draw. A senator here presents the challenges we need to consider regardless of the epidemic, the changing nation's ages and funding for the future. Hv. A senator in particular brings up some of the emphasis I'm going to take on, the highest. President. First, why? A senator over the financial capacity of a National Hospital of University Hospital to maintain the same level of service as the previous year and meet the challenges of changing ages. It hangs together. This year the hospital budget is about 90 billion dollars. Compared to about 80 billion dollars from the previous year, the increase is about 10 billion or 12.5% per year. This is an increase of about 3%. In that case, the situation for the epidemic may be improved in the budgets of the year and in terms of budgetary management as well as remuneration, including costs for better working hours in shift work. This year's budget has been adopted by the land hospital for six high - security shelters, two of which are already ready, 30 rehabilitation teams in Landakot, and a new epidemic to ease stress from other departments and enable the hospital to meet these challenges. It is true that rapid growth in the number of older people is and becomes a real challenge, both here in Iceland and, of course, all over the world. According to U.S. Habitat Habitat, the elderly will increase from 12.9% of the population in 2022 to 16.4% 2030. At present, the seventh person is 65 years of age and older, but in 2050 the fourth person of the country will be at that age. At the same time, the number of people who work at work will be reduced. This means that not only the need for service increases but also the number of those who can provide services and those under the taxpayers of the State in order to pay for it. What a challenge, a respectable president! This requires changes in organization, methods, man - made technology, innovation, research, and telecommunication. Then it is very important to accept this link, that I do not talk about public health prevention, which we must begin to increase in order to meet this. On the one hand, there's a reason. A senator entered into the design problem and the government's plans to meet that challenge. Caring for health care is an international challenge, as I said, and a growing competition for health care professionals. This is not a question of whether, but how we meet these challenges when it comes to health care and, in fact, social service. It will be done even. by continuing to ensure a high education system, investing in education and training health professionals at an advanced and university level across the country, creating competitive working conditions and promoting the best health professionals. This has been very good done in the past to form in the field of specialist medicine when it comes to education. The role of the Land Hospital of a University Hospital is one of the factors involved. Being a university hospital, creating this field an education, scientific research, and clinical training. There are about 2,000 students in Hospitals each year from all or most institutions of education trained by health care professionals. A majority of the specialist medical staff is requested at a National Hospital, which is also in cooperation with the National Center for Development and Hospital in Akureyri. At that time, the development center of the Icelandic Medical Center around special studies in family medicine, which is taught by some 50 established educational institutions in many parts of the country. The land hospital has also planned a clinical training program for nurses. The National Council, appointed by my predecessor in May last year, is a consultation area for the management and education of health care. There have been very practical suggestions to map the stage and meet these challenges. Third, there was a drive. In view of this, a member of the community's community in general health care throughout the country and the role of the National Hospital in a university hospital. I'll get to that later, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u18	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this discussion. We are here to discuss the problem of Land Hospital ◯ University Hospital and Health Department because of Covid. If people receive the Covid-19 virus and become ill, they are in line with their healthcare provider. The need for necessary anticancer therapy is not priority in the healthcare system. Bad breaks and the need for action is not a priority in the health system. Necessary knee or hip surgery is not a priority in the health system. Full - time workers who can't work because they need a necessary operation are put on a waiting list for months or years and only because they get the wrong treatment in the system. They were not treated righteously, injured, or not getting sick properly. There's something wrong with the system if we've reached the point where we're gonna put a large group of people, sick people, on a waiting list. Being on a waiting list for a year or longer is an amazing torture. I've got Covid-19 and I've been on the waiting list more than a year. What's worse? The list is 100 times worse. It's got amazing problems for people, but at the same time Iceland's health insurance is adding to the problem. It's not made up of physical therapists, it's not made up of speech pathologists, it's not made up of specialists, and it's a war at another medical facility, U.S.A. I ask a minister: What will he do about this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u19	A respectable president. It's a good health system. I'm going to repeat this: National Health System is good in all international comparisons. This is an knowledge and service drive, and there, of course, the staff is important. Hence, working conditions, terms, education, and re-education of these classes are important. But, a respectable president, despite the fact that there are things that can be improved and things that can be done better, we tend to talk down the wonderful Icelandic health system. That's even. Do it in a word like that. A senator and an apocalyptic used the above; subfundation, abduction, and the worst, a starving policy. When we discuss Icelandic health care, most of the discussion seems to be going to a third degree of service and preferably at a Land Hospital ◯ university hospital. Of course, our health - care system is very important, but not all of it is our health. I believe, a respectable president, that the big questions we have to answer to in the future are how to cover our expenses in the third degree of our service. There it is, like a bang. Councilmen have established, the nation's aging, a positive subject, as well as life - style disorders. I'm glad to hear the highest. The minister mentioned earlier that national health and prevention are important. When we think about the long - term funding of the health system, public health and public health measures must be a top priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u20	President. Már Kristjánsson, director of infectious diseases at Covid-19 C.E., said at the open meeting of the welfare committee last week that during the last 10 to 15 years, hospital looked more like a company run by a streamline control company than a university hospital. The hospital has increased efficiency, but it has been done at the expense of research, education, and quality of service, while education would be the seed for the future. At the same meeting of the welfare committee, a health - care professional said that if it is impossible to improve the performance of the hospital during the epidemic, the spread of Covid in the community would have to be limited. What the flow control and the savings at the hospital need to be done, we are forced to take more aggressive measures to prevent spreading. What has been the cost of this surgery, the so - called savings? The cost is huge, and the cost of a dollar increase is very complex. Full - time jobs, cooling the economy, increasing indiscriminateness, increasing isolation, increasing violence, that is the real cost of sacrifice. The need for personnel to escape the Land Hospital and the unprecedented staff of nurses is largely due to poor jaws, high work loads, and the completion of a quarrel at the time. If we cannot offer an environment that supports education and innovation and offers reasonable ideal and acceptable work loads, we will lose the ability to build up a strong health system permanently. Would it not be wise to increase the salary and improve the interests of health care professionals, such as nurses, to increase the recruitment rate and avoid further escape from the article and also to reward the sacrifices they have made for the epidemic? We can build up the hospital's efficiency if we are ready to pay off those serving there. Then I'd like to ask at the end: How will the health minister promote education and research and ensure that the next pandemic will not be immune to health care? And I'm not asking if he's gonna do it, but how he's gonna do it. [[The president calls.]] This is of utmost importance and is a key to the future of the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u21	President. The care giver of the health system can be clear and important, especially in the light of circumstances. However, I want to look to the future and to remind you that it is a long run to deal with the long - term problems of design in the health system, especially in the country. As mentioned, health care is aimed at caring for up to 90% of the daily activities of the medical system. Thus, the time spent in the study by medical students is very limited for the part that covers virtually all the first contact areas. Thus hospitals are the only working environment that students get to know during the first five years of their six years of medical training. The direct surgery of medical students is about four weeks away, with one week or five days of intensive medical care in the country. It is extremely important to straighten out this course. For this reason foreign models are available, and they should be possible without any mention of any professional basis for study. The challenge of this material has been sent to the University of Iceland by the medical directors of the National Institutes of Health all over the country. I agree with their food. It's a lot of community. I would also like to point out the importance of any medical study available in college to maintain the knowledge and education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u22	A respectable president. In June 2020, I had a conversation with the highest. Secretary of finance here in this hall for the imminent death of nurses. A surgeon had then declared that the situation in a nurses'debate was a threat to the problem of a pandemic. The health system would not be run without nurses. At the beginning of 2022, the health - care system is primarily the reason why there are restrictions on people and restrictions on companies; we are now primarily protecting the health system. Yet, the government still has no intention of responding. ... todirectthelighttothebeneficents of women's classes. There is still no question that financial secretary, who was supposed to start 2018, will be able to communicate with the labour market members and the local representative to ensure equality with the pay of different government professions, including government members. Of course, the nurses' terms. At the Parliamentary Reunion adopted by the General Assembly, it was said that a special collective agreement would be made to correct the interests of the female groups, a special increase in addition to the general rise for this group with the solidarity of all major unions within the labor movement for their special efforts. There's about 250 nurses missing. There's an escape from the profession. Five years from graduation, many nurses choose to work outside the system, a history of community values. Of course, nurse status is not the only challenge, but it is an obvious part of the design problem. During the last term, little happened during this time, despite repeated requests on how this work was done. One of the largest covariates in this position, which show repeated remunerations; women have about 15 to20% lower wages than men, of course, have a sexual market. Even now there is little more to discuss in the community than a pandemic, and the health status of our government is calling out for us. [[The president calls.]] What is she going to do to improve the quality of women's classes?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u23	Mr. President. I appreciate the voter for this discussion. I'd like to hold on to two things, first to the funding of the Land Hospital and the Health Organization as a whole. There is no question about it: There has been an added amount of money in these subjects over the past year and years, but I think there may be evidence that there was a considerable lack of at least a reason. We members of the Parliament can be made clear as to how that money is divided, including the amount of money. As for the new products of concrete, the action on Ring Road, what goes on the business and in the existing system, and so on. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came into his speech that Már Guðmundsson had introduced his view to an open meeting of the welfare committee last week, as well as Moordin, I think it's verbal, but at any rate he put it in such a material way that no matter how much money we put into the system now, it would not solve the health problem. There he referred to a carpenter. Of course, it's critical that the manipulative problem is like this, so I'll say, behind us, behind the government. Based on how the population grows, it should have the most predictable problems we have with regard to the development of the need for healthcare professionals. It is, in fact, very exciting to see now that we are going to take steps to allow a few extra nurses to go to school rather than to stick to a rigid space that has been done for years, when the need for this education is as screaming as it is now. I'm gonna make this work in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u24	Mr. President. Yesterday, I spoke to the highest. Prime Minister on what plans are there to strengthen the health system, an important public service that was in a weak position for Covid, but the epidemic has certainly made an even worse picture. Sadly, I felt that there was no clear vision in her reply. I also listened excitedly to the top interview. A few days ago, a health minister in Kast Light did not care; certainly good promises, but unclear what the plans are. They point to both increased medical resources, but, apart from the direct cost of Covid, population growth, demographics of evolution, dress and work time contracts, and the construction of a new hospital, it is difficult to see that there are some growths. It's missing, for example. 2 billion in the underlying hospital services for funding. Only the two hospitals, apart from all else, can do only the same service, not add to it. The government has had four years to figure out the problem and shape a clear policy, but unfortunately the debate about the future course of this series has been marked by a conflict between individual governments. But a new health minister to encourage them gives much support to much of the nation for better financed public health. It should, at least, be not to delay the task. However, among the most important priorities today, there is an effort to improve the quality of health care professionals, many of whom are exhausted after two years of inhuman stress. But a better model, important as it is, will be reached only if there is more vigorous improvement, otherwise we will lose these people to other jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. Harðardóttir For the initiative, you may want to discuss the situation in the health - care field. It is certainly important to look to the future along with the solutions of the day - to - day issues. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A minister earlier in the discussion presents a global challenge to healthcare professionals. While work in health care is changing through technological development, such as in other areas of employment, there is a growing need for those in the field of health care. Hence, we must focus on ways to build up the manna for a long time. A study in a number of medical professions has the privilege of living with a number of restrictions because of the lack of at least a few of them have access to more than one's will. Thus, the matter of solution is to create an environment for study that can receive all the qualified people who are interested in such activities and who are needed. So it was good to hear yesterday that all the nurses who reached their first Iori test both at the University of Akureyri and at the University of Iceland would be welcomed. In fact, at an open meeting of a relief committee last week quoted in the discussion, Már Kristjánsson said that there would be a great need to improve the ability and facilities for education in connection with the health system. That would be the seed for the future. Finally, I would like to stress that the study space, the environment that will be created, will be varied, provided training under different circumstances, in different communities, in different areas. There the technology of telecommunications and telecommunications will be used for a new approach and a relevant education fund. I have high expectations that the National Council for design and education in health care will go on this mission and look beyond the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u26	A respectable president. The health system has a number of problems. It is a human resources crisis, a waiting list problem, and then the problems of older people who sit in hospitals because the government has not found adequate resources for these people. That's a long way to count. The problem is varied and occurs throughout the system, and the situation never seems to improve, even for Covid-19 it seemed a little worse a year from year to year. Today, when more than 1,000 people are diagnosed each day, it is not surprising that the situation is bad. The number of doctors has decreased compared with the number of people in the past few decades. Yet, there is no sense that they will increase substantially over the years, even if this facility is being built in a high - tech hospital. In the light of the nation's aging, plans for the growing number of nurses do not keep in touch with population growth. Man is far beyond normal standards. For example, 22 mental - health professionals at the National Hospital are now working at 19.7 points, but 31 standards are needed to ensure adequate service. There are many examples of communication problems between governments and special health care providers. Finally, there are employees who have worked hard to ensure that the health system does not collapse in this epidemic. But then there will be a problem that the models have created in this system. And how will we do so, making sure that these people are not completely overwhelmed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u27	A respectable president. I would like to thank the chairman of this discussion and the answers of the Minister. In view of the great pressures that have been in the Land Hospital since the beginning of the Korean epidemic, it is difficult to compare the situation with the normal year trip. Expenditures for the Land Hospital have increased by 9.3 billion since 2019. This is equivalent to an increase of 12.4% in the last four years, as shown here. All requests for budgetary contributions due to the specific action of Covid have been agreed on and nothing at the state fund to report on these activities. In 2022, as the health minister mentioned in his earlier talk, some 2,000 million, or all that was asked for by Covid. In spite of this, the smaller part of the council has been impressed by the fact that the only way to improve the performance of the Land Hospital today is to increase funding. A respectable president. At an open meeting of the Kristjánsson Committee last week, Már Kristjánson responded to such a question as to the memory of the part: Although a government fund put all its money into the bank account of the Land Hospital, his efficiency would not be increased. All the Landspians need is fewer patients. He needs fewer patients. It is important that we strengthen the management of the Hospital over a period of time and reduce the number of patients with less patients in the Land Hospital. We must work on the list of waitings by making agreements with private members of the procedures that were used to be carried out abroad. The value of any patient who comes back to a valuable culture in the community after a prolonged illness is known to us all. The greatest praise can be given. Health Minister Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for using the powers of the private enterprise by negotiating with the Clinical and the Power House to obtain employees on their roads for temporary projects at the Land Hospital and is interesting cooperation. Of course, there is an emergency when such measures need to be taken. The only way out of the Korean epidemic is with us. Only by cooperating with others will we work out the problem. It is very important to examine and compare their salary with similar classes in foreign lands, both salary and working hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u28	President. What's the status of the health system today? The report released a forecast of the need for work in the health sector in 2006. In 2020, a number of active nurses in 2020 were expected to need some 3,400,4,000 nurses. A number of doctors would have to be in the range of 1,300 to1,600, but the number of doctors working in 2020 was just over 1,400. The forecast of how many nurses and doctors we needed was just right. That's nice, isn't it? No. For example, in 2006 the prophecy of the Haguems Laboratory was based on a population forecast that estimated to be 2,300,000 people living in Iceland in 2020. In fact, on January 1, 2020, the population was 364, over 44,000 more, nearly 14% more. Depending on the crude close-up, there are also a minimum of 14% more health care professionals. So there should be fewer than 3,900 nurses and 1,600 doctors, the peak of 2006 predictions. This is a medical facility; sub-flavorcise, sub-flashion. Since there is a report that tells us what to expect, a report that fits the backview mirror well, you can say that the situation is what it is today because the government decided it was the standard. I believe that the reason for this situation is political ide rather than professional employment. If your system is well-funded and your collective agreements are constantly in the Valley of the Earth, it undermines the will of people who undermine the system. I believe that this is a deliberate decision to make personalized dreams in health care become a reality, a determined decision that the people of the land will have to endure the injury, so the purpose of the weekend is to sanctify the political means. There's a situation in the health system today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u29	A respectable president. It is important to have a vision of health at a time when society is changing rapidly. It is clear to all that there are a wide range of medical services that need to be considered in the coming years and decades. The expansion of older ones is at the same time an indication of the good society that we are building and at the same time a challenge. According to Economics figures, the proportion of people over 67 years of age will increase by close to 4% in the next eight years. The modeling of health care, as we have seen, is an international subject, with which we compete with other countries. It is far better to have a well - prepared health care professional, both in terms of well-being and less working conditions. We also need to strengthen our clinical education, both at the Land Hospital and at the Akureyri Hospital, as well as at the health care department. The analystic company McKinsey recently released a report showing the immediate need for the service of the Land Hospital. It has the highest long - term care and advanced age. The report explains a number of solutions, especially when it comes to services. It refers to rehabilitation, home - care, and nursing. But it is also important that we develop a variety of facilities, both in size and in shape, and in the neighborhood of a nursing home, to make life easier for people, as well as to help integrate in the ministry and support at the same time with independent living people beyond their age. The number of nurses has increased substantially throughout the country, where health care in the country is usually the first phase of service, the service to care for them. Health care plays a vital role, and it must continue to grow. By doing so, not only will we contribute to better service around the earth but we will also make it easier for hospitals who get more space to care for the third degree of service, the service that they most need to perform. Special attention should be given to the services of specialists in the country. This arrangement was started with a review of the Management Board of Health Centres from the region during the Ministerial period of the Svavarsdóttir. It is important to make the service of specialists that in any way it should be done regularly in the home country, i.e. in one or two spots per healthcare professional. It is my feeling that in future challenges, the opportunities to build even better health care around the country remain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u30	A respectable president. We look into these days as a result of the two - year - long epidemic that we have been dealing with in our health system. It's been a real challenge for every infrastructure, but at the same time it exposed the weaknesses found in the system. On the other hand, you feel awe for people who have spent the night in dangerous situations to prevent the disastrous consequences of the epidemic. Thus, it is inexpensive to speak of a poor health system, but of course we should take advantage of what this epidemic has taught us and learn from it. The land hospital has three problems, i.e. Cartilage problems, flow problems, financial problems. It's about time for that. 250 nurses, about 100 medical staff, between 10 and 20 doctors. In the meantime, there are a number of situations, such as poor employment, unacceptable pay that have resulted in a lot of staff management, a flow problem because we have not been able to build a nursing home for our older people, and then a financial gain that would manifest itself. in the next year's budget is about One hundred and six billion for the hospital to do the work he is assigned to do. This epidemic has also had a major impact on health care, and it needs to be replaced as the first place around the country. It requires increasing the variety and home of its independent operators. A respectable president. It is and will be our greatest and most important task to improve our health system for the benefit of an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u31	Mr. President. First, I want to correct my misdeeds from my first speech. Of course, it was Már Kristjánsson who lived up to the word at an open meeting on the welfare committee last week that no matter how much money was added to the hospital business, it would not solve the problem that the hospital faces in my care. I would like to introduce my second talk to the third point. An apocalyptic is a regional health - care unit with the role and role of the Land Hospital in increasing expert services across all parts of the country. In this context, I feel that there is far too little discussion here in this hall about the cost of the land's population because in recent years all services have been primarily gathered here on Ring Road. It's a huge cost to the families of the country that live farther away from this nuclear service, and it's not just for travel and living expenses, it's a loss of jobs, holidays that have to be taken because of the day before and the next day. I think we must, while there is no more emphasis on supporting the health institutions that are around the country, take this point into the discussion here. This is about, as I say, the cost of the population of the country's urban population in the pursuit of much of the special services needed to reach the capital. If we do not view this as part of the equation, this burdensome national tax will become even more burdensome in the years to come than has so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u32	Mr. President. As soon as I'm grateful for this discussion, I have to say that the presentation of most executives on this important matter is completely unacceptable to me. V.E.G. Minister and minister. Government officials, now in the fifth year of government cooperation, act as if the government of the past and now have only done enough. They do so even when a distress call is heard from the people working at the Hospital and in the health - care system at regular intervals. At present, no one should hide that governments have to deal with matters other than a list of alleged personal accomplishments. None of them mentioned how the medical staff's comments at the hospital's emergency department are going into effect in March if nothing has to be done. Too many health care professionals are looking for other jobs and even in other countries where working conditions, working hours, and remuneration are better than here. It's easy for our professionals to get jobs abroad. We are all glad that we are being built a new land hospital. Surely, it is time for us to make that important investment. But those who pick costs of the new building and make money useful to those who suffer disease and need medicine and today's care play a deceptive role. Mr. President. The government must be stopped after a health-irritation policy. The Icelandic public deserves better, and the Icelandic welfare community deserves better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by coming to the third point of the question. A senator and a advocate to ensure access to health care throughout the country. It should be recognized here that access to separate services needs to be improved. I'd like to state that there is a developing project to finance contracts between health institutions all over the country, the Special Services Hospitals at Akureyri and the Land Hospital of a University Hospital. It's working. To strengthen health care and equal access will require a broad range of solutions and agreements between institutions and special hospitals, technical solutions, distant health care, transport, and transport. We always have to work to make things right. With regard to the design factor, which is the great challenge, it was shown in the language of everyone. The members of the council here would like to say that the two hospitals, Akureyri and even the Landspians, are very important to the education. There's a full - scale job and a great job at a land hospital. That's the situation, and it's ideal if we're going to be competitive about the staff and the human system for the future. I want to thank you for this discussion. It won't be cleared here, but we need more than just a budget to take this discussion. Then I'd like to agree with what. Congress that we have excellent staff, health - care systems that have successfully met tremendous challenges, and we have our health - care systems and our hospitals through this, and we need to consider the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u34	A respectable president. God's Law on Equal Opinion regardless of race or nationality, No. 85/2018, subject to equal treatment of people in all areas of the community outside the workforce, regardless of race or ethnic background. The bill suggests that there will be an improvement in the differences between the above laws of belief, life, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, and gender expression. If the bill is approved, the law will bring in a more consistent policy on equal management of the labour market, No. 86/2018, which covers all of the above-mentioned differences, not just race and ethnic backgrounds. Then both legal groups will reach the same differential factor. This accordance is a new title for the law where the existing name is limited to the differential factors in the current law. It is suggested that a new name be made: a law on equal management outside the labour market. The bill was given into consideration by the Norwegian, Swedish, and Finnish legislation on the prohibition on discrimination, and further agreements were made with laws on equal status and sexual rights, no. 150/2020, Act on Equal Opportunities, No. 151/2020, and sexual autonomy law, No. 80/209. It should be noted that this bill is part of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people here in the country signed on March 30, 2007, and was validated on September 23, 2016. Mr. President. A general prohibition against discrimination on the basis of the above aspects of the law must be considered new, although other laws of national law are also aimed at ensuring equal treatment and promoting active participation in certain areas of society. It is nearly 1 mg. 65. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, 233.g. a, 1 mg. 180. g. General penalties, No. 19/110, and 1 1 1. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. There is no change in the area of society that the law already reaches, but individual areas are specifically indicated for emphasis. Keep the law, including for social protection, including social security and health services, social status, education and access to goods and services. In particular, it is stated that the bill applies to housing available for the public. Social quality includes These include access to places for the public where leisure time can be enjoyed - swimming sites, skiing areas, roller derby, organized playgrounds, family parks and libraries, museums, theaters, and other cultural and artistic events. It is noted that the above applies to all locations intended for the general public, whether it is public or private, but sometimes it is simply spoken of as public space in this context. It is important to note that different treatments may be justified in certain situations and if such treatment can be reasoned in a grammatic way with legitimate objectives, there is no discrimination and each case should be evaluated. A respectable president. It is necessary to consider that the discrimination factors suggested to be added by bill are different, and there may be specialities in the matter of individual discrimination. It is suggested that two new regulations be added, on the other hand, to a new set of appropriate adjustments because of disability, which is then 7. a, and, on the other hand, the new rules of variation due to age, Article 7 b. A similar standard is set by law on equal management of labour markets. The differences between age, religion, and outlook on life in the bill - they are not meant to influence school systems or activities, including the content of primary schools at all levels. Therefore, it is not intended to influence religious teaching or school - related events or beliefs or beliefs or the age range after the time of the year, or any other age-groups that are commonly practiced in educational, sports, and youth activities, or certain organized field trips offered only for students of certain age groups, for example. When we discuss these general rules, it is important to remember that we always look at that there are perplexing reasons for various division in our system and they will continue to apply. Madam President. It is suggested that the law accept when the bill is accepted. However, it is suggested that the laws of the law do not apply to different treatments based on age, cr. 1.mg. 1st gr., until July 1st, 2024. This is to allow time for reviewing age-related laws in other laws, administrative regulations and contracts, and making adjustments if necessary according to the regulations of the bill. There is a provision for temporaryity and this is about the order of a team of workers, which should specifically address discrimination due to links and possible proposals for changing these laws and law No. 86/2018, on equal workforce treatment, associated with this type of discrimination. What does that mean? Yes, when an individual is discriminated because someone has the personality characteristics of wearing which the law includes, to form if the most qualified candidate is not getting a job because he has a disabled child or a partner from a foreign background and there are no other grammatic factors for which the person is not able to get the job. Finally, the work market law changes, No. 86/2018, as per bill. Madam President. The proposed change will lead to increased justice protection for people who consider themselves to be discriminated against outside the labour market on the basis of the above discrimination factors and grant these individuals the first time allowed to seek their right to a judicial committee within the administrations of this country. It is important that we contribute to the active participation of most people in Icelandic society, regardless of religion, biology, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, and sexual expression, and prevent social isolation. Some institutions or companies may be affected if there is a need to improve access or make changes in housing and equipment because of a disabled person, but according to the bill, such measures should not be too burdensome, including some of them. taking into account the financial resources of the institution or company. Every case needs to be evaluated, but I think we're gonna have to. Most members of the Parliament can agree that there is a great need to improve access in the community, whether in public or in private. Actually, it should be a reasonable matter of access, but there it is, just for example, about the possible causes of cost growth. However, it is not expected that the bill will have a significant impact on financial expenses beyond that resulting from existing legislation on equality. Madam President. I have explained the basic principles of the bill here and suggest that it be after this 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u35	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister of History. V.E.G. A minister lay a relatively low row here today, so it is not excluded that I have missed out on what is going to be asked. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What rights are not protected according to current rights which are added according to the bill recommended here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u36	Madam President. As mentioned in my talk here, it is suggested that the discrimination issues of belief, perspective, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, and sexual expression are added to these laws, which are the law of No. 85/2018. This means that these laws will then be in harmony with the law of No. 86/2018, respectively, for the equal treatment of the labour market. There are the same discrimination factors that apply within and outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u37	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister. There may not be any particular reason for this law that it is based solely on law from 2018. But it's the highest opinion. Prime Minister of 65 C.E. constitutions do not represent the highest level. The minister listed here in his reply? And because I heard the highest. A minister introduced discrimination on the basis of contact is curious to ask the highest question. Minister if this applies to discrimination based on a spouse's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u38	Madam President. So I take the second point first, it is so, as I said before, that here it is not being proposed to change the discrimination on the basis of relationships. However, there is a provision for special consideration. I mentioned, for example, if an individual is partial, based on having a disabled child. Political opinions are not listed as a special differential factor in this bill, therefore. A senator mentions it. Hv. A senator asks: Does this bill, will be legal, more legal protection than 65. g. The constitution? - that I mentioned here as the basis for what we're doing, in the matter of equal rights for all of us. But I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree that, nevertheless, we have felt that it was important to set a law to form an equal status of the sexes. We have many legal improvements in legislation to ensure equal treatment, e.g. to disabled people. And this bill is part of the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People in this country. While we have the general rule of crystal clear in our constitution, and in the best world of all worlds, it should be sufficient to ensure that there would be no discrimination from these factors, there has been evidence that it is important that we account for the discriminating factors that we look to in general legislation and that we will ensure the right protection of those who are being violated by these discriminatory factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u39	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. Prime Minister for presenting this bill. It's a pleasure to see that there's an increase in the discrimination factor. In effect, I was surprised to learn that many of these factors are not already in current law. We middle - aged, white - and - straight men may not be exposed to all this prejudice and discrimination unless we are old and we're not always aware of it. But over the past few months and in recent years, I have felt that these factors caused a huge attack on people. That's something I'm really worried about, i.e. this growing hatred speech, which is actually here. It exists in particular on social media and clinical media systems. In connection with this, I'd like to mention that not long ago at the Porta Congregation, the very attention was given to such hate speech. Our deputy, Linya Run Rún Karim, has been exposed to age, philosophy, and ethnic background. There is something that neither members of Congress nor others should have to experience, and I believe it is very important that we, as members of Congress, fight such a hate speech. In fact, in our declaration, we encouraged other political movements to condemn all hatred speech and rasism in political debates, and I miss a little bit of the subjugation of other parties on the request to condemn such things. We need to do more than simply add discrimination factors into law. We also need to make sure that when it comes to discrimination, when it comes to abusive speech and other matters, there are fines, judicial decisions that deal with it. Finally, when it comes to these matters in the community, we need to work together, not only in order to establish laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u40	Madam President. This case is an example of some aspects of this government and, especially, the highest - ranking elements. Prime Minister, in the sense of wondering whether it is primarily about the wrapping and the stated goal of the bill rather than the real content and its real effect. A declared goal is something that I think that everyone must be able to agree, but it has not always been the same, or the effect has not always been the same as the bills or laws. I have previously discussed the predecessors of this case with concern about this tendency to list ever more personality traits that are protected. The reason why I'm worried about it is because it gives me reason to reason with you, i.e. that the character traits that are not specifically mentioned do not have comparable protection for others. In my opinion, Madam President, this is a very questionable example to set. I see that the bill is simply falsely claimed that some of the factors listed there do not receive comparable protection against other personality traits, as they say. The result, though, is that those factors that are not listed in this bill or prior elements are not protected. But they do. The Constitution and law in Iceland do not allow discrimination on the basis of personality characteristics and have not done so. Therefore, you need to wonder whether this bill is primarily a product of what is sometimes called a virtuous excuse or a virtue show or whether it involves actual compensation. What interests me less about the bill and the tendency to list more and more factors is that this is what might be called personality traits, natural or acquired personality traits, and especially about how to live. In my opinion, it's a lot of thought, by the way, on further examination but it appears that this bill has been proposed, whether it is justified in a liberal democracy to set up a set of principles that may be partly at least It seems that criticism of a person's differing viewpoints is prevented. It has to be permitted to criticize people's views, beliefs as they are called here, and even religions. In my opinion it is permitted to criticize religion, even to make fun of it, though it may not always be appropriate to do so. However, to legalize an offense that is not acceptable and illegal is a very important and dangerous step to take, and a reason to take it up for a thorough discussion. As to the term "evangelism, " see chapter 3. The bill: A study of life: an examination based on worldly attitudes about life, moral and moral values, as well as established ethics and knowledge. And who was more than many or most others interested in so - called knowledge? There were Marxs and Marx wrote a lot about knowledge, the relationship between reality and knowledge as he saw it, as it fell upon his mind. We cannot risk bringing a law against criticism of Marxism or another philosophy. Also, there is something else in the bill that attracts attention, perhaps suggesting that it is not composed by lawyers or professionals in the field of law but rather by interested persons in this field. It's, for example. in the bill specifically stated that multiple discrimination will also be prohibited. Discrimination is prohibited, but multiple discrimination will also be prohibited. In other words, discrimination is forbidden, but it is also forbidden to discriminate. It tells itself, Madam President, and has done for decades or more, since the invention of laws, likely, that if it is forbidden to break laws in one sense, it is also forbidden to often break them. But there it is specifically stated, led into law, that often breaking the law is also illegal. That's possible. A clue to what is suggested here, what this purpose is. V.E.G. In his speech earlier, the prime minister said that there are certain exceptions, a practitioner, e.g. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 is not recommended for CYP3A4 and CYP3A4. I couldn't understand it any other way, so a 89-year-old couldn't insist on enrolling in grade 4 high school. It's all right to the highest. A minister takes such a practitioner into account. However, if a person has missed high school, I would naturally feel that he would have the opportunity to correct that education. But it's a little less vague about this aspect that I mentioned earlier, my main concern, this with my opinion, my philosophy of life, that it is specifically mentioned in paragraph 7. - I'm just quoting directly from the article, with the permission of a president: It should be developed so that no differences are made on the basis of the factors mentioned in 1 mg. 1st par. and there is no decrease or disrespect for those with a certain outlook on life or faith, of a certain age, of a certain race or ethnic background, or in the light of disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender characteristics, or gender expression. The same standard is found in this bill, including ... aboutevaluation. It makes you wonder about the pragmatic effect of it, though at its height. In part before then, the prime minister has mentioned this point, which is not seen in this bill, which is characterized above any other, these 23 pages. with a report, of repetitions, you keep repeating the same things. If we're going to do this, we need to keep in mind the opinion issues that may arise. For example, there are a number of society organizations that are based on a certain outlook on life, the KFUM and KFUK, and the Salvation Army. These communities must continue to have the freedom to advance their life - style. And then there's a little bit of concern in my opinion that I see in the 8th paragraph. is to some extent expected that the State will be censored for advertisements. There's a special article on advertising. They must not weigh a view of life in that it is not to be offended by a certain outlook or belief, as is the case with the ethnic background. I remember many advertisements making good fun of other nations, especially our neighbors, the Norwegians, the Germans, the Italians, even the Faeroes - but all good and often to advertise some products from these countries. How does the bill affect such things? Some might argue that this is a subject of unnecessary concern, but experience with such laws, laws set on these grounds, without legal consideration, has often been widely interpreted in many lands, in order to increase the authority of the State over the media, and even advertisements as presented here. Therefore, I believe that in the treatment of this case it is more important to understand the actual effects of this bill. There's talk of an opinion, repeated. That's a lot of repetition, as I mentioned earlier, Mr. President. There is no lack of explanation for the perplexing reason why we should compromise our ability to allow criticism or discussion, even depend upon, in the matter of differing viewpoints. Such is the very key to a liberal democracies, that conflicting views can be criticized. A life - examination can be very wrong, in my opinion and expected of most people, at least calls for such opinions during discussions, opinions, evaluations, and not the fact that the State intervenes and prevents such discussions. In the paper of the bill, which, as I mentioned earlier, is characterized by more than another act of repetition, there is one and another name I would have wanted to go over, but I see that time is about to fly away, Madam President. However, I will take time to read a few lines from chapter 2, which says: However, individuals are not protected in the same way from discrimination on the basis of faith, principles, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender awareness, gender characteristics, or gender, outside the work market, according to the above social legislation on equality. This means that those who feel that they are discriminated against on the basis of these factors do not enjoy as much legal rights outside the labour market as those who consider themselves to be discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, or ethnic background. If nothing is done, they will continue to enjoy a lower standard of justice than those who feel that they are discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, and ethnic background. This is simply not true, Madam President, in a twofold sense. First, this is not true because most of these personality traits, or all the personality traits, are already protected by law. This raises questions that I mentioned at the outset, a concern that a person may conclude that what is not specifically mentioned does not receive comparable protection. But this too is grammatically wrong. What are these always talking about? Likely, this is just another symptom of much of this bill being based, not on law, but on ideologies and a certain view. The inspection is good, Madam President, to most extent. I think, as I said earlier, everyone can agree with that, except for opinions, principles, or what people want to call it. That is where we are on a dangerous path. For the other factors, it is primarily about the need, the way it is present. I see, for example. In other places, this report shows that people are being talked about things such as not being allowed to come to a restaurant or keeping them from renting houses because of e.g. National background. This is likely a stroke that is over 100 years of age when signs were placed that Irri or other peoples in the United States or in Britain could not rent housing. On the other hand, we might say, " Yes, it's a lot better, but we don't have to protect it by law. ' Yes, we have laws to protect these things, but we already do. And again this concern comes to me through counter-contraction, i.e. to mention in particular all personality traits that are protected. It's not like that. All personality traits are protected. All individuals are required to enjoy equality and equality regardless of individual characteristics. I had written down notes at one point or another in the report that I feel is a double energy or that I need an explanation. I can't finish it in this speech, Madam President. There's probably 2nd coming up. I hope this bill will change, and we will have a better explanation for what to do with it before 2nd. it's getting better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u41	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the talk on the bill and thank her for making it available. Fighting any form of discrimination is vital at all times. It is amazing, in our enlightened society, both here and in many of our neighboring countries, that it seems that a certain setback is taking place in equality, whether due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic background, or even health. In many parts of the world and in neighboring lands, poverty has become more severe against minorities, persecutions. We've also heard it here at the council Hall that it is being questioned the right to fight against any discrimination. It is a question of its rightfulness on the basis of freedom of expression, as if it were somehow intertwined to allow discrimination, to attack minorities, and to enjoy freedom of expression. Because there is no way to say that people cannot express their opinion when protecting certain minority groups from discrimination, on the contrary. But somehow, in the discussion, it's just a little too much, even at the moment. A senator who gave a speech before me. Why is cleaning this up so important? Yes, because it is important that the lawgiver and the government send a very clear message at all times and at all times that discrimination is not available, that it is just a clear message. We're not involved. Then I'd like to ask myself, for some legal implementation, whether - these are just speculations - we may be wrong when we always add up to the list of factors that can't be broken, whether we'll always get into this so that we're actually starting to rule out certain groups that don't get into the list, they're not listed. I think there's something that we always have to think about in the legal process, trying to have law enough to catch all possible groups that should be involved. I think I can say yes, because this is, for example, here. Talk of disability, that in many parts of the New World Society, prejudice and discrimination are common to those facing mental problems. This is so that we do not realize it, that this social group is experiencing some things for the sake of the rest when various aspects of life are being improved. The most intimate example is e.g. Just building a building, building a new treatment center on Ring Road Hospital, where long passed housing for this group of patients is set up, a hundred-year-old housing on Köpp and decades old, and a totally inadequate premises on the Ringway. This patient population should not be allowed to enter a new treatment core. This is not said of wickedness, and I do not mean that wickedness is behind them or that it is a conscious decision. I wondered if we should always consider it, if it could be that it's so deeply entrenched, that we think so little about it. It's a very good bill. It takes a lot of things that we're dealing with and it'll be fun to observe the work that will take place on the General and Education Committee. But I hope we'll talk more about it here in the Hall of Congress, this misunderstanding when it comes to thinking that it's about people's freedom of expression and people's opinion of other people. There's nothing to talk about. People are being weighed down and discriminated against in some way. It is not the opinion of people to have disability, to be at a certain age, to have certain sexual tendencies, to have gender, to have sexual symptoms - this is not an opinion. Of course, we're supposed to celebrate all the discussion, but here we are talking about discrimination and increasing the differences that are taking place in the laws that are already in effect. I'll just reiterate that I celebrate the bill and I hope the committee is doing well in its processing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u42	A respectable president. It will be more and more important to fight discrimination in a world in which the diversity of human life becomes more and more apparent to one another. I'm celebrating the bill and allow myself to say, "But sooner has it been." In my opinion, the law of this sort will enhance the right of people and lead to greater equality in the community. In some cases, when there are some suggestions for prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of various factors, it is difficult to see that all different treatments must be discrimination and that such regulations are unclear and that they are difficult to enforce. After decades of experience, though, if not hundreds of years of that discussion, we are in a better position to explain the difference between different treatments, if justified in a grammatical way with legitimate goals before our eyes by appropriate and essential means. You see, equal rights involve not merely the handling of similar cases in the same way but the different ways in which different cases are used. What is not to be discriminated against on the basis of the factors listed in the law without objective justification and to pursue a legitimate goal with necessary and appropriate methods. It's not complicated or anything that suggests anything but that we're fully capable of distinguishing. There has been another kind of discrimination that is sadly prevalent in society and that is increasing, and not enough, in my opinion and in many others, have been done to resist. It is hate talk and social rejection of people on unutterable grounds, such as on the basis of race, nationality, and even other factors. Iceland is in a position to lead a campaign against hatred speech and prejudice. We are a small nation, which all of us are more and more likely to talk about the same thing at the same time. As a result, all kinds of awareness wake up more easily than possible. ... ina community of millions of people. I want us to take advantage of opportunities within the nation's small size, for a certain extent, the exorbitantness of the nation, mixed with other specialities, draws attention beyond the masses, and out of the small farm we live in. The development in Iceland towards women freedom and the increased rights of queer people have been quite successful if you look at what goes on and happens in other countries where evolution may be possible. Slow down. In view of this, I would like to suggest that, as a result of this legal process, there are further steps to ensure equality here regardless of the factors mentioned in the bill and to eliminate prejudice and hatred in the community. I suggest that the government itself, the government itself, joins in a campaign against hatred speech and prejudice in the community. We have come to the point where we have the tools, the knowledge, and the skills needed to eliminate such ills from our good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u43	Madam President. Thank you. Councilmen who have considered here for a good and objective discussion. Because of the senators who have made particularly the subject of hate speech, I think it is a matter of great importance. Today, the Board of Management Board was conducting a program in the affairs of gay people, with particular attention to measures to support hatred speech toward that group. I can totally agree with that. A senator who spoke before me that there is a need to approach a project from a broader foundation, that we are looking at it from both this group and also from other groups. I think it's a worthwhile project for the government, but it's also all over because it matters what lines the legislature puts on these matters. This bill is one of many steps that have been taken in recent years to strengthen national rights. It's been normally asked, I understand that well, about the list, whether the risk of a list is not that they'll be left out. Of course, we have regulations 65 C.E. The Constitution, which says that all are equal to law and have human rights, regardless of sex, religion, opinion, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. But we must also admit that although we have such regulations in the constitution and in the individual legal code, we often need to define in more detail the laws of discrimination, the factors that are underneath, so that we can follow through on it and respond to it. The legal protection involved in this bill is, of course, that we make it possible for those individuals who are affected by discrimination because of these factors outside the labour market to seek their rights by going to an independent ruling committee. Of course, it is a big deal when it comes to the right protection of these people. Why are we bringing these factors up? It's important to do what you want. The General and Education Committee will discuss this because it is reasonable to ask these questions. However, there are both historical and social reasons why these factors have to be specifically mentioned. I'd like to mention, because this subject specifically discussed an alleged censorship on advertisements, that such a law on ethnic grounds is already under law. Already, discrimination on the grounds of ethnic differences in advertising is forbidden or slighted. It's not the same as making a good joke. I think it's also important when we're talking about discrimination that we agree to what it means. Of course, honest jokes are not the same as discrimination. But we do not want good humor to be a matter of contemptuous or disparaging debates about certain groups. Sadly, we have far too many examples in history, where communities have allowed such language to be tolerated often with disastrous results. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson noted that this bill was based, not on law, but on ideologies. Of course, I refuse that this bill is not composed by skilled lawyers in its field at the Presidency Department. Of course, this involves certain values. It is a matter of rejecting discrimination and staying awake to the fact that certain groups are influenced by discrimination on the basis of any of these factors. If this bill is accepted, there can certainly be a clear analysis of the Lawgiver's will, to take a clear stand on this matter. It can be called ideologies, but it is one of the most important values we can discuss here at the National Parliament because it is about the basic human rights of the people of the country. I'll accept that this bill reflects a set of values, but it does not diminish the fact that there has been a problem and has been given a lot of time to consider. Of course, we are concerned with something in line with other countries, with European directives, with legislation in the north and also with other Icelandic legislation. I can name the legislation on sexual autonomy, which is not present in all of these countries, we look to it, and we are also looking in line with the legislation in place at the labour market. However, there are factors. The General and Education Committee will need to examine further, and I expect the Committee to discuss it simply when a grammatical basis exists. There is a grammatical basis for 13 - year - olds not driving a car. It does not count age discrimination in that sense of the word. There are special laws on the affairs of the elderly who are not relevant to those who are not elderly. There is no discrimination that is based on grammatical grounds. Of course, these factors need to be handled well by the committee and therefore we suggest that longer periods of adaptation be made, for it is important that society has room to react and adapt to changing thinking when it comes to discrimination, e.g. based on age. For example, there may be an incident with age in financial activities, so it is important that the community have time to do so. Therefore, on July 1, 2024, we recommend this standard. Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further. I'd like to respond to what has been said here but remind me that the definition of principles of living that were asked here is really the same as found in the law on equal management of a workforce that has been in force since 2018. I do not expect, however, that those members of Congress who were opposed by that law will necessarily support this bill because of the problem. paritaprevir This was especially done in the case of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I just remind you that this law has been in this way by law since 2018 without causing any problems. I think that's what we're talking about. So a senator does not have to be particularly concerned about this. Otherwise, I will not extend this discussion any further and expect the committee to take the time to review this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u44	Madam President. I had no intention of giving another talk to the first. but after comments, the highest. Prime Minister, who answered only to a very limited degree the comments I made in the previous talk, I believe that there is reason to reiterate them immediately to 1st. the point that there are flaws in this matter, not necessarily faults that depend on the objective, but real expectations for its effect. At least I'm glad it's the best. A minister should specifically mention that the matter will receive a good treatment period on the committee. First of all, I am concerned with what I mentioned earlier about creating this example or this counterargument that the equal right of all individuals is not really guaranteed unless specific groups are mentioned. This has to do with the concern I have of the government's tendencies here and abroad in order to increase the number of people in groups rather than in terms of society as one society of just - haired individuals. This growing political trend, especially on the left side these days, is not lucky, and the previous examples from history show this. I also worry, as I mentioned earlier, because it's being mixed here in character traits such as disability or sexual orientation, opinions, a vision of life. In reality, I don't like to put it in the same laws, that people are protected by the ability to develop disability or sexual orientation in the same way that humans are protected by a view or outlook on life. This is not a desirable development, and as we see examples in many parts of the world, it is a matter of opinion, of evaluation, because it is at the highest level. The prime minister has almost made fun of comments about a new review of advertisements here shows that the experience abroad differs greatly from the opinion of what is considered an appropriate joke and what is not. That's why I'd like to go to the highest. A minister made it clear that this will not be opened, so to speak, the misuse of the law to prevent normal criticism or the result of a natural sense of humor, since we have so many examples of such developments from other countries. A second warning light is reflected in this bill on page 11, where people come to the path to talk about systematic discrimination. Even when discrimination does not appear to be there and is not even there, there is a way or way out, perhaps in this case, in the form of a systematic discrimination. And how is this systematic discrimination defined? It is not defined in the bill, but the examples show that there is often a very long way in believing that something involves systematic discrimination. In English - speaking countries, it has even gone so far as to be the science, mathematics, and are of the most intense interest in certain fields said to be systematicly different, including a systematic rasism, a European - oriented view, or a Western view, which is, first of course wrong but, in my opinion, a disrespect for people of other backgrounds, to think that even science involves systematic discrimination, systematic rasism, etc. So there are a lot of things in this bill that need more explanation and too unclear what its real effects will be. However, in view of the fact that the matter has to do with a goal that I believe all members of the International Parliament agree on, the goal of ensuring an equality, then hopefully a reasonable conclusion on the way to achieve this goal. But the ways that have given the best part include looking to the individual and his rights, the equal of all individuals, rather than to divide the nations into ranks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u45	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. A senator who spoke before me has some problem with just the things I mentioned in my speech about, in fact, the definition of discrimination. To some extent, I'm going to say something. Vala Helgadóttir Vað Helgavóða, who came here earlier, pointed out that there may be a possible future indiscriminate difference that is headed for an unsolved goal or when inappropriate methods are generally used, in general, not to be legal, and perhaps a question of how long the list should be after, or whether it needs to be over the head. That makes me disagree. Gunnlaugsson On the contrary, this is not about the groups but about the fact that people are indiscriminately divided. For fun, I wanted to bring a Trix that I think is a little good at using to figure out if a joke involves some kind of discrimination or a hate speech or something else, and there's a thought about the opposite of the joke. Sometimes this phrase is discarded: It's just a joke. But I believe that, and the humor experts agree with me that there's no such thing as a joke. I don't mean to say any joke, but there's a point. What I'm going to say is that everything a joke has meaning. There's a reason we think something funny. What tells us whether humor is appropriate or not is the key to making jokes. What are we saying? There's something we're trying to say. If what we are trying to say involves some kind of prejudice or humiliation of something or someone else, that is inappropriate joke. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u46	Madam President. I didn't hear a question pointed to me, just a good question. But this is just what I always take into account, and my concern is that people are going too far to reevaluate things, and not necessarily all, not the more part, but that some chosen group can abuse laws that weigh freedom for discussion, expression, and so on. This is simply part of what I was raising the issue that needed to be discussed with this case. Thank you. A member of the council before the introduction, believing that it is right to enter into the discussion that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u47	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in marriage law. The bill was submitted to the last legislature council, but it did not succeed and is now submitted. The bill is, in effect, unchanged, except that changes in the time of the bill were made in terms of the provision of wedding vows, as well as the review of financial benefits and consultations for the bill has been updated. The bill suggests changes in terms of parole due to minimum age in order to establish marriage, survey wedding conditions, divorce legal history, as well as the proposal to move jobs from the Ministry to the county. First, the bill suggests that the removal of the product will be a release from marriage to persons under 18 years of age and is intended to conform to the marital law of international recommendations and attitudes regarding minimum age to marry. According to current law, two individuals may marry when they are 18 years old. However, the Ministry can grant younger ones permission to marry, as there is the position of parents to the marriage institution. Then the bill suggests that a principle of acceptance will be established in a foreign - language marriage. It is suggested that the law suggests that we should marry individuals under 18 years of age who are serving in a foreign country only if we are under strict restrictions. Considering this, whether or not they are still under 18 when they arrive in the country and want to be accepted. However, it must be allowed to make an exception, and the unequivocal interests of a person under 18 years of age demand it. However, the person should have been 16 years of age at the time of marriage, and marriage is recognized in the land of marriage. In view of the rights, there is the need to accept marriage in exceptional circumstances. Second, whether a husband or a wife has a legal home here or not, the bill suggests that a survey of wedding conditions will only pass by the politicians. It is suggested that the Ministry be within the scope of Regulation deciding to commit one county office to complete a task. By enforcing a single administrative committee of the Agency's work, it would be possible to coordinate the requirements for which the Commission makes the information required of foreign citizens who intend to marry in this country. At the same time, it is assumed that the process will be simplified by electronic solutions. It should be noted that the consecrations of priests and directors of religious and biological organizations and their agents will remain unchanged under the law. Third, adjustments in marital laws relating to government law and courts are presented in order to give legal separation to the country in certain cases if neither party lives on the land or is an Icelandic citizen. The union between members of the same sex is not recognized in all states, and those who marry in this country do not have the right or requirement to accept their marriage in other countries, e.g. A country where one or both owns citizen's rights or owns a permanent home. Parts of the same sex who get married in this country and who don't get their marriage approved in their own country can't request legal divorce in this country unless they live here or are Icelandic citizens. In order to respond to the criticism established on the current legislation of a particular group, as well as to conform the legislation to the rules available elsewhere in the North countries, there are proposed changes to the marital law that establish laws so that divorce can be requested on land if it is found that a policymaker cannot appeal to divorce in a country where he owns or is settled. The changes apply equally to divorce cases in court and government meeting other conditions of the law. Fourth, there are some changes in carrying projects from the Ministry to the county, which are believed to be more compatible with the role of the government than with the Ministry. First, there is a demonstration of a legal guardian's consent that an illegal individual can establish a marriage that would then be placed under a government officer instead of a Ministry. Then there is an exception from the wedding conditions on the position of the divorce between the couple and the previous spouses whom a businessman would be permitted to replace the Ministry. Next, there is the Ministry's permission to give the exception from two best men who guarantee that there is no law code on the subject of marriage and that one best man is signing a certificate. It would then be up to a businessman to give an exception according to the incident. The decision of the county will be open to the Ministry. Finally, the bill assumes that a permanent cost to the county is due to the requisition of projects to those involved in the search for marriage conditions can be studied by about 18 million. K. every year. Is suggested in the bill that a certain fee must be taken for the publishing of an exploratory certificate. Figuratively, the increase in cost to the county has therefore been ensured by changes in the law on the increase in state funds. The bill suggests that the law, with the exception of Article 4. The bill suggested to be effective on September 1, 2022. The law turns to the fact that only the county and their law - trained representatives will be held by a survey on the wedding wedding terms and that a fee will be allowed for the release of an exploratory certificate. The bill shows that it is necessary to give space to prepare the changes in which there are a number of issues that will be moved to the county and possibly to a sole county office. These changes must be prepared in cooperation with the Commission to enable them to accept more assignments. A respectable president. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u48	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for bringing this case to the council on time. I hope there will be a time-to-time process by the General Information and Education Committee so that we can make this a law for spring, because a release allowing a child-friendly marriage is an incredibly high-time error in a Icelandic law set. It's good to have the highest. Minister with us in the fight against that time fuck. I'd like to ask about two things, it seems to me, which especially concerns the section of the bill. On the one hand, there will be a reserve allowed to be inserted. They're supposed to cancel a large release, but they're supposed to add permission to admit, in exceptional circumstances, that marriage has been established abroad, where one person at least was under 18 years of age. You see, the reviews of the last council indicated that it is very important to the managers that these excluded documents were clearly reserved and defined. And I don't see that there were any major changes in the report or on the subject of the bill that meets these indications. So I would like to ask the minister if this is not something that the committee needs to look at in particular, and even receive the Ministry's experts with him in order to narrow the small eye of the needle as much as it can be, so that it doesn't open a new gap that can be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. As mentioned in my case, this is actually under conditions very narrow, although under special circumstances it is necessary to accept marriage in some exceptional situation. So I just agree that I think the committee should take a very close look at this matter. Of course, the Ministry and Others are invited and prepared to give the Commission all the help needed and the knowledge made especially by the bill, which has been carefully studied.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u50	Madam President. The other question I wanted to ask may involve the whole marriage law. I drilled into the prehistoric history of the marriage law and this anyway, one two years ago, when I offered a bill shortly before the time of the court. The same was true of the minister of justice. It struck me with a little bit of a bill that became the law No. 31/1993 - isn't this 29 years, almost 30 years? - A great deal based on the position in the other North countries in these cases. Naturally, we compare ourselves with the neighbors, who have a similar legal environment. At the time, e.g. Exception conditions comparable to the highest. A minister proposes that this is canceled, that was a rule in most northern marriage laws. Then the time was cut off in all the other states of the North. There remains this little skinny one in Iceland who's finally supposed to resign. But this may raise the question, " Is it time for a general review of marriage laws, whether there are spots here and there in the law that have begun to rain like this, which calls for the taking up of the whole law, whether there is a project that a minister has considered within the Ministry, and if there was something worth setting up in the election period? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u51	A respectable president. The person standing here will be pleased to acknowledge that because of his precocious work, he knows what to do. I'm sure a senator of this better than me, just arrived at this Ministry, and not been in the Amenment Committee here in the council during the 14 years I've been here. I can totally agree that when the law is 30 years old, and I don't talk about laws that are involved in this series of things that have changed in our society and all the communities we compare with, Western society, there can be good reason to consider it. However, there is also good reason for the committee in their review of the matter that this opportunity will be used if there are some obvious points that the committee would like to consider together with what is suggested, now that these laws are open, and that they will achieve some solidarity. But I can fully agree with that, and I will see if we are going to consider a general review of marriage laws. There may be good reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u52	A respectable president. I welcome most of the things presented in this bill. There is one change that interests me, and I wanted to ask a minister of the highest order. Minister a little. The bill shows that for a non - Witness marriage, there is a chance that both individuals would have been 16 years old at the time of marriage if it was legal in the state of marriage. The objective of these changes is noble, which is the fight against child - couple bonding and the violence and the exposure to violence involved. But I fear that this is what often happens when solutions to oppression and abuse, which are the primary causes of loss and loss of experience. Here I have in mind women who have been married to men, if we do an example, in Syria, and the woman who was a child at the time of the institution of marriage. Then a war breaks out, the couple may have children together, but the husband sets out and goes all the way to Iceland, gets a fugitive's position here, but the wife and children are left somewhere on the border waiting for family unity in this country. The question I'd like to direct to the highest. A minister is: Does he not believe that there is a problem with the fact that their marriage is not accepted and that this does not qualify for family unity, even though it is grown up and all agree? Tells you the highest. This minister is not a problem needed to solve? And if you are, how are you doing? Will a minister assume that such a case will be resolved?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u53	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my history, it is suggested that the principle of the recognition of marriage established in a foreign country be established that those under 18 years of age who have been married there will not be accepted in this country unless under strict leave. However, there may be cases where possible. A senator witnesses here. Is it then, as I said earlier, that this applies regardless of whether the couple are still under 18 when they arrive here in the country and wish to be accepted? However, it must be allowed to make an exception, and the unequivocal interests of an under 18 - year - old must be demanded. So I think it's a case that would probably be considered in a very specific way and determined by the interests of the people listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and apologise for perhaps not being completely clear at the beginning of my discussion. I am here speaking of an example in which a person was under 16 years of age at the time of the institution of marriage. It is true that the younger the subject was, the more serious it is, let's just call it, but perhaps the person's distress is much more serious. So I'm going to repeat the question, but I'm going to implement it as follows: Isn't the problem that must be solved, the situation that individuals who were married before they were 16 years old, would be in under the circumstances mentioned earlier? And what does a minister think he should do to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u55	A respectable president. I hope that this situation would be resolved with the interests of those who would be prepared after a careful consideration of it and their circumstances evaluated and cared for. I believe we can assume that the treatment should achieve such results as this one. It is probably for the committee to consider whether this can become a subject of opinion that will somehow need to be dealt with in the legislation, if that is the case at the council. There is something else that really matters in all this treatment by public officials and is, in fact, an extremely important matter when considering the changes presented here, and that is, in fact, other aspects, and when one county office is being committed to handling these matters, rather than being scattered around the country as the county is many. This provides a much more consistent approach and a more consistent approach and a much greater knowledge of these matters, which, of course, is of utmost importance, to improve efficiency and to improve the treatment and to coordinate all court treatments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u56	V.E.G. President. I just want to start on a short trip and hope that I'll be forgiven by it. This is a journey I made in the spring of 2018 to New York, where I met the United Nations Women's Committee for Women and met a meeting organized in the cooperation of Malawi, Zambia, and Iceland by UN Women and the United Nations School of Equal Opportunity at the University of Iceland. This event dealt with children's marriages and the struggles against them. The fact of the matter is that Iceland has become more relevant to fighting the violence of children's marriages around the world, and the cooperation countries of Malawi and Zambia are good examples of where, in my memory, more than half of the girls are married before they are 18 years old, often very far from their age, just old men who are given and abused by them for years. There, the Icelandic government has contributed money, expertise, and assistance in eliminating a social ills that can feed on poisonous cocktails of ignorance, fathers'empires, and poverty. As I sat there at a lecture room at the UN headquarters in March 2018 and listened to the accounts of people's struggles, I realized that the tools used to set up girls in their children's marriages were the same as we have in the Icelandic Law Museum. You see, representatives from not only Malawi but also Zambia were told that the law was really good there, that there was just a good marriage law. However, in these lands there would be a set set set set of rules that could be used to use girls to use this violence, and they are new to the full in these countries. They are the most new in the poorest provinces. They're newer when it gets worse, when it gets worse. We have, for example. saw it and UN Women have pointed it out and started a special campaign in recent years that in Covid, e.g. has grown in children's marriages because the families of older men who are married often get something for them, whether it is money or products or something else. Thus, this violence is fed by the misery of the girls who are then sold into these violent relationships. There I sat in the United Nations basement, where I began with the question: How often has this law been given in the Icelandic marriage law, which is comparable to the rules given in countries where these marriages are highly practiced, been new since Iceland rose to its age for 18 years? I asked for the 148th legislature that I'd like to see as perhaps this bill we're discussing here today because it was not a dead law letter in Iceland. We were not so whitewashed about these matters as we would have liked to believe, but on average, this law was used once a year in the period of 1998◯2018. Then I got more information about this from the Ministry because it's normal to think, good and good, here are mostly girls who have received this release, all 16 and 17 years of age, and one boy, but what about their mate? Are these perhaps nearly peers of their age who agree and want to marry and need an appointment to do so? Then, when a couple's age came from the Ministry, it was found that it was not always the case. In 2004 and 2005, e.g. given a release for one 17 - year - old girl each year to marry a man of 31 years. We don't have the story behind these relationships. We don't know what's behind it, but we don't know how the Ministry fulfilled the obligation that rests when such an exception is given. How did the Ministry investigate that these girls were getting married, being completely free, and wholeheartedly? How did the Ministry fulfill the enormous responsibilities involved in giving an exception to as important as these? And that's why we're going to make it because earlier at this assembly, I was accepted by my secretary of state to report to the secretary of state on the terms of this issue, on which criteria were laid, on which data were obtained, and on how the Ministry served to ensure that no pressure was involved. It is important now that we fill in this gap that we make up the story, that we settle the history of this particular law, and see if there is anything wrong with learning, whether the government has failed. Madam President. After that bill, I received messages from people who knew about the law of marriage that had been given to married couples who had even received this release. Although it doesn't tell the whole story, we're talking about three, four relationships that I got a glimpse of in these conversations, I'm not sure that this story will come all too well for the Ministry. It often plays into pressure from relatives, some of these examples are relationships where people got involved and began having sex and even came to a baby, and then parents did not want a child to be born outside of marriage because they disagreed with some study of life within the family. The conclusion was that the girl had to marry a man who may not have had much to do with a longer - term relationship. I hope the Ministry accepts this request, which was accepted very seriously and only openly recognizes how it was carried out during the 20 years of service. In the answers to this question, only the source suggested would be passed into law. Section 5. The bill that when there are special interests and unequivocal interests exist to acknowledge the marriage of people who move from abroad, it is permitted to accept this marriage. It was quite clear how delicate and complicated this can be. A General and Education Committee on the task of achieving a successful landing there, between clearly and easily applying which interests to be considered, as noted in the reviews. The Children's Cooperative and Women's Courtship of Iceland when this bill was submitted last; however, the interpretation does not become so narrow that it affects the younger party which, in this context, is somewhat tolerated and the system must not be allowed to continue to break down on the individual with too much legal interpretation. There is a set of balance arts that the committee needs to figure out. Otherwise, I'd just like to mention another point in this bill that I'm having a bit of fun with. That's 4. The bill and the issue is not about children's marriages but about which parties are conducting a check on wedding terms. Today it is the county or inmates under marriage law, which then represent religious and biological associates, but the bill suggests that only the politicians and their legal representatives will be cared for in a survey of wedding vows. I think this positive step and something that I would have even wanted to see expand a little because it's like the highest. A minister mentioned this matter of quality. This is a question of whether marriage matters meet the right conditions. I think the same viewpoint applies to marriage itself, as we do in various neighboring countries where marriage is held or that of entering marriage is particularly in the hands of a businessman who goes to a point and sticks by law, but then people can receive the blessing of their religion. It just does it the next day, or whatever it is, and it has nothing to do with the state. I think it matters both of the quality, like the highest. A minister mentioned, in terms of marriage conditions, and I think it is the same thing when it comes to the whole wedding ceremony to separate between those relationships that are often between religious and biological partners and the attorney I think were not always beneficial, as we know from the battle for one marriage law, to the struggle to recognize the right of individuals of the same sex to marry. It is only a fact that because religious organizations and especially national churches had so much to say that marriage laws were delayed, the legal reforms, for many years because in Icelandic law individuals with religious organizations are given some authority over a civil institution, an institution that is supposed to be represented by politicians. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I suggest that the General and Education Committee consider expounding this a little something from what's on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u57	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for putting in this bill. What a joy it is to see that children's marriages are being handled there, such as night and night! paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson noted, is a major problem in many parts of the world. However, it is estimated that one in five of the world's five women or girls has been married as a baby marriage, that today there are some 650 million women in all the world who have married all too young. I'd like to thank the highest. A minister for opening up on other matters related to marriage law and would especially like to mention that here on the agenda is a Senate bill of changes to the same law as it is my hope that in the management of the Committee may be able to find an opportunity to combine these two prime signals in one law, and then the Senate bill will take on important points that are in the marriage law that are needed to handle, which is about to facilitate legal divorce. There is something that truly has come to its years, as does the rest of the law. I just want to thank you very much. Minister for giving this bill an early presentation. We will support its progress here at the council and hope that the General and Education Committee will accept the suggestions presented here and be quick and effective so that we can create new laws as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u58	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in the P.R. law. The bill was submitted to the last assembly, where it went to the General and Education Committee after 1st. The bill is now presented in a smaller form, but minor changes have been made, including Due to the development of narratives at the bill. In June 2008, open - air laws on public security were established, and they have since made little material changes. The law and the arrangement laid out in them has been tested when a public defense situation is established and a public defence level is declared by the state police. During the past few years, there have been many events: storms, avalanches, landslides, earthquakes, Covid world epidemics, and now last volcanic eruptions have tested public defences and are proposed to make changes in the depth of experience that has been experienced in the last year. One of the results of the campaign group set up after the storm in December 2019, was just to further the public protection by a total legal review. The purpose of the bill is also to better define key concepts, sharpening workchange and suggest the need for changes in the focus of response action. It is suggested that different public defence levels and the concept of crisis be defined in the law, but these terms determine when the authority of the law will be activated. The public defence levels are three, uncertainty, risk level, and emergency level, in line with the seriousness of the individual crisis situation, the scope of the equipment and the need for a high priority response rate, such as the nationals have recently experienced. The bill also explains the responsibility of the police officer on the type of action planned and the investigation of trauma tolerance. There is also reason to transport police officers in the province, in view of their position as the executive of action, direct access to the presentation of action plans and dangers. For example, word changes with the bill are provided, to form the name of the Public Security and Security Council being converted to a public defence in order to further illustrate its role in comparison to the National Security Council, which was used by law No. 98/2016. Small changes are made in the order of the council, including by allowing the secretary of transportation to become part of it and the names of representatives in the council to be corrected because of changes made in institutions. It is also stated that the head of the state can request approval from the minister of a foreign relief team in accordance with international contracts to which Iceland is involved. Then a minister will be authorized to make rules about the reception of a foreign helper. It is vital that such helpers are able to make rapid and reliable receptions so as not to become unnecessary delays in helping and saving. It is then suggested that the civil duty of public employees be legally established permanently, which has so far been legalized as a provisional principle. The use of this code in the Covid World War II has shown that this source is necessary to cope with conditions that have now been created. The principle also helps. that it is possible to ensure public service at a critical time. The bill also suggests that only when clearly necessary and other less efficient measures, such as the earlier laws on the civil duty of public employees, can be applied. The law says that you are excluded from such obligation when it comes to the health of the person to whom you are responsible or to another particular danger are assigned by assigning him to perform such tasks. The changes in the review measures include the review of the PMP. Instead, there is a step-by-step review that takes into consideration the individual needs. The first step consists of internal criticism of response action. Thus, the State Marshal's Department of Public Defense must always have a review with the operators following the actions to evaluate how successful it is to be performed. Experience has shown that P.R. may persist for a long time and there is a change in the duration of the P.R. status. Therefore, the bill also suggests that the Marshal has the authority to hold such a meeting during the period of public defence if there is any particular reason. The Marshal is responsible for and monitoring that respondents make adequate improvements in accordance with the results of a review meeting. Exogenous review should be performed if control of co-ordination and management centres is deemed necessary and will be called to members with expertise in reporting. Compatibility and management centres are also permitted to have such a report performed, although the level of public defence has not been lifted if any particular reason is considered. Experience shows that things are often very different. There must be a variety of reactions and knowledge to deal with very different issues handled by the public defense system, as the past few years have evidently shown. In the most serious cases, ministers can also initiate such external criticism by calling for expert reporting to shed light on the possibility of failure and to get suggestions for improvement. I believe this system takes into account a more real need for each one than the arrangement that the current law assumes. Other changes in the bill include It is necessary to ensure that no doubt about the role of the operator when the public defence level has been declared and society can function without interference in such situations. The bill is only the first step in revising the P.P. It is concluded that in the period 2022 land of 2020/2025, the total legal review will continue in extensive consultation and in accordance with the P.R. and Safety Strategy agreed in a meeting of the Public Safety and Security Council in March 2021. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill, but it makes the public defense organization clearer, a key to dealing with natural and other threats. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u59	V.E.G. President. Now, this is how these Covid cases are put forward over and over again, that you only scratch your head what you've been told and done before and what they originally looked like. But I do recall that in the initial implementation of the civilisation bill to staff in times of danger, union unions have taken some action and expressed concern about certain factors there. The General and Education Committee at the time, which is then expected two years ago, met with both a change in word and a time-consuming the law. In view of the temporary registration, the unions did not violate the law at that time. The same was true here a year ago when the provision was temporarily extended. So suggested BSRB, e.g. Emphasized on emergency relief and did not object to extending temporary regulations, in view of the state of an emergency. Therefore, I would like to ask, considering that this is a suggestion to establish the provisional principle permanently in the law, what consultations have taken place with the unions on this law? It's a delicate matter. It was clearly revealed two years ago. And although not as loud a year ago when this was extended, it is likely to look different in the case of permanent legalization.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Of course, there is something that may be important but at the same time delicate. The bill is trying to find a way that is justified in very serious cases, where we need to be able to take these measures. As mentioned in my case earlier, the bill is now presented in a slightly different form, but there have been changes as a result of future narratives about the bill that had been previously treated. I think and I hope that they took into account the viewpoints and the criticisms that came out here so that we have something that can be called acceptable. This will be evident now during the conceding treatment of the matter. It's called very late, especially on the part of a community. This can be a test of their heart and of being able to appoint others, but it was in their own time. Of course, it is always an emergency. It will always be an emergency. This may be necessary, but it is difficult, and it must always be temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u61	V.E.G. President. I'd like to read from the review of BSRB to the civil duty bill from about a year ago, by permission of the President: Since the law's taking effect, the BSRB began receiving cases where employees had been removed from their traditional activities and had taken care of some maintenance work in their workplace, such as painting or other such jobs. In the above areas of work, jobs were simply fewer than usual because of swimming pools or athletes. In this regard, BSRB has made comments, although the provision of preliminary authority to react only when the need for an employee to work in the interests of public defence is required at a time of danger. This could, naturally, have been a much better look at the Ministry, I hear the Minister, and I hope there's something that a General and Education Committee will consider. The examples that BSRB cites are not what I would think would result in a civil duty but simply a unit's response to not getting a scholarship because of a losing income or a shutdown. If a community runs ten swimming pools and is closed, this will be paid. Of course, it is tempting to use the employee as an otherwise wealthy place in the pool for something else, in view of the fact that the State does not work for pay costs, such as if restaurants were to be closed for preventative measures. However, this is not the purpose of civil duty in times of danger and therefore something that needs to be carefully examined by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u62	A respectable president. As we have seen, the purpose of the bill is: to better define key roles, sharpening practices and such factors, and to deal with the three public defense levels, uncertainty levels, hazards and emergency levels, in accordance with the severity of an emergency situation of each individual and the scope of application and such. We're always talking about how to use this delicate provision, and have the authority, we're talking about some kind of public defence that calls for the response of public parties; community, state, and natural response of the public. Although we have a very powerful public defense team, i.e. All the rescue workers, all the people we have access to, and the vertebral device in it is, of course, our volunteer forces throughout the country who count on another hundred rescue teams and who exist almost in every densely populated area and perhaps beyond that, there are areas that can face serious conditions for various reasons where people may be called to work on the side of these respondents. We are, of course, a small nation in a very large country, and the small ones may be, so areas can have very limited resources. Of course, it is always in such situations that this delicate provision is appropriate, and it is important that we look for ways to do so in the greatest terms of agreement with unions and labor movements and that we show all the understanding needed on both sides in order to take such measures in serious circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u63	Madam President. I want to start by celebrating the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister is offering this bill, which covers a number of points that have been pointed out over the years, points that we know we've been in close cooperation in public defense, and I know the highest degree. The Minister of the Interior is one of them. We who have been in this environment working within it know that there are many things to fix, many small things to do, and this bill certainly deals with many of these factors. But I believe it is important that the overall P.R. review be carried out as planned. It will at least I am not up for it. But as shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has been under a lot of pressure on public defenses, especially in recent years, and we here and the community everything, are in great debt to the small group of employees who stand up for us 24 hours a day, every day. So it was a pleasure to see that the budget of this year was added to some of the standards for public defences in the bill, or that seemed to me at least. This is very satisfying because, in the public defenses, very few employees are facing difficult situations, whether we face a pandemic or a natural disaster, and rarely they get some rest. Also, there are many things in this bill that legally establish a point that we who have been involved in this sector are very familiar with, for example. the terms of the public defence. But it is also good to see that in this bill, there are several factors that are explained, perhaps not clearly defined in the current law, which is being dealt with in this bill. As the former member of the Icelandic International Rescue Forces Company, I especially have to celebrate the 19th floor. The bill, but it's how we're going to receive a foreign relief team to this country if there's a serious public defense situation. You see, we have had a process and other definition of how we help other countries, but we have not been quite ready to receive help ourselves. There are complications, as if we needed a team of doctors, nurses from abroad, can they work in the country in need? Can you bring in the track dogs, trained strike dogs, in case there's a big earthquake? There are some things where we were actually using the good old stuff, and if this happened, it'll be fine. But it's being legally established that a minister can decide to give a lot of rules, which is just very happy to see finally come into law, over a decade after decoding this. You see, like one of the world's greatest experts in a disaster response, the late Jesper Lund, pointed to an NORDRED conference in Iceland in 2006 when he asked us, a representative from all the North countries, whether we were too proud to ask for help. We have to figure it out, like the highest. A minister showed that we are a small country. We cannot cope with various disasters alone. Then we must be able to ask for help, and we must be able to get it quickly and safely. And just to give you a small example: At this particular conference in 2006, a rehearsal with the conference that was supposed to have started on a cruise ship outside the West, with some 500 people inside. It turned out that if more than ten people on that ship had been burned, we would have had to ask for help from the North and other countries to receive patients, even a special firefighter would have been sent to the country to help shut down the ship. It was a simple example of us not being able to handle this call with our wonderful volunteers, our wonderful professionals and our good public defenses, we couldn't handle it ourselves. That is why it is vital that we not be too proud to ask for help, and when we ask for help, it can be received safely and promptly. That's why I'm especially happy for the 19. g., that it's being bound to law and not just say, "It's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this matter for a moment. We had it on an General Education Committee and I was there for the last term but I don't sit there right now. I'm not happy with the bill as it looks now, rather than then, and I'm going to review in short the points we were working with the Committee that I think the present committee needs to consider, and now I'm going to get reviews about it. There may be a small why, and because there is also a branch minister sitting here, it should be mentioned that, as we have seen, this is a considerable contribution to the rural community. There's something to explain. My experience is that the number of people working on this task is not clear enough. At least my experience was that it was being added to the complex level and put together more. The unions and the police make plannings, their communities do them for themselves, and then there's a common plan in which they work together. In the bill, I felt that it was not clear to me whether the police should be doing this response plan for their communities and their internal work. But as mentioned earlier, it may not be the law of police or anyone else to go by the governor and tell local employees to do what they can. So I feel that there needs to be a clearer distinction, i.e. The local authorities are the members of the public defence committees. This is a co-work on the Commission, as the P.R. Committees are, yes, consultation committees, and many rural communities often come in. But besides, local managers don't have control of other rural personnel. Often, it is so that local society's viewpoint goes far beyond that of a police officer. Often, it is composed at the beginning of some kind of situation, but then the communities may think further ahead of time and may even be working, as we know, with the Ministry of Presidency and others, as we have seen in the disasters that have taken place. So, of course, it's the headcount, we can take a year's city, 1,000 employees who need to be taken into account in a response plan. But then the local police may have fewer members on their side. Our rural communities may not necessarily be handling the coordination of different reactants, it's the police manager's job to do so, and I don't think this is completely clear enough. Then it is a professional benefit of risk analysis. There I'd like to encourage the Minister of Staff to consider the funding of the local community. In this context, we can ask ourselves, " Can I add an article in the local community bill because their role is enormous when some kind of social disorder occurs and maybe for a long time, as we know about the projects we are facing today? ' For example, in Sufjörður, the community's work will be in many years after the situation of uncertainty or public security has been lifted, so they have to promote their communities a little, I think, in their role in this. I'd also like to introduce the fact that the P.R. is being submitted. I don't like it, and I think the bill is kind of rationalizing it itself, it actually says here that just because we didn't finish it, we're just gonna call it off. But there is not enough logic at all. I'm going to allow me to recall that this committee was set up as an independent committee and was assured that she served as a representative of the Generals, including the U.S.A. The application to be done would not be tested for its own actions. They may be critical of the lack of initial qualifications. We are fortunate now that in today's advice, people with knowledge of disasters and such things are extremely useful. But it is true that there are no requirements for these people. There is something that I believe can truly be fixed and set requirements for those who are expected to perform this enormously important task. We have a research committee of transport accidents that could be used as an example in this. But I feel that by putting down the committee, it is actually preventing an independent party from investigating the implementation and introduction of the institutions and the public defences of the State Marshals. So I think it's a step back, and I've been discussing it the last time that this case was under discussion, and I've held this up because I don't feel like we've put it to the test because the Council has never financed the committee. The minister of Justice put in this small money of 2019, which may have been the right to set up a situation for the committee, but she never really had a chance to take the job properly. And then, of course, Covid comes down to everything, as we know each other. In the bill, in a report on 15,◯18. See, that's exactly what they're saying. At the same time, it is said: "The current arrangement may not have met the purpose of the decision, nor has it been found when the committee has just never been funded and never received to work and to do what was truly intended for it. " I'm just going to tell the people who are sitting on a General and Education Committee to take good care of this, especially since it's not being thwarted. I think it's very important. According to the bill as it appears, it is the governor of the state who has custody at the review conferences, who is self-investigated, and who is a member of the organisation. We're always here talking about increased transparency and control of state institutions, so I feel that this kind of thing is quick, despite the fact that many people here are involved, as mentioned and all of it is. At any rate, I want people to be careful about this particular matter and to reflect on this particular aspect, whether the committees agree that they actually tried this committee, and whether another way to do this is better and, in my opinion, more sound from all the above, not to self-instruction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u65	Madam President. I wanted to thank you. A senator for pointing to some points that were in the discussion when this bill was last presented. With regard to the discussions of rural societies, police verses are in order of planning and other factors, the truth is that there's a bit more to it than this. Thus, many rural communities are often at one risk, and at times only one community is in danger. I think there's a lot of work to be done when you go through a plan of action, set priorities, and update the existing ones. A good example is that a response plan for the Katlegos was not expected to be 4,000 foreign tourists in the area but was given only a number of farms in the area. There are many things you need to do when it comes to your response plans, and it is important that you have a good definition of who is responsible for each. You may then be able to create a rule that allows the police to take care of what covers many rural areas, while their communities do not. But what I miss most, when it comes to response plans, is that there is a particularly defined capital for this. Where it is. A senator is also the chairman of a financial committee, and I would like to encourage you to look closely at how we can contribute more funding to the presentation of response plans. This does not always mean that we are making them afterwards. Rather, we need to be ready before things happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u66	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's quite true, as I came in here earlier, that public defence committees often include many societies that are even different. As we know in many places, such things exist. Like what? One member of the United States points out that they may be at a higher risk of a number of events in one community than in another, and each member of the community needs to make his own planning more than a team has to have some overall vision. It was perhaps that's why I was putting it right here, and I'll agree quite with it with the hasn't. A senator, that there is a need to reinforce the ability of the local community to risk analysis and to create planning for action. And because I was comparing the police, which may be over everything at a time but not necessarily in this for a long time, the knowledge does not necessarily come from there. Knowledge must come from somewhere else. It's a question: Should we make more of this in the rural law, and then this would likely fall under an equation or based connection or something, or should we create a task where rural society is pushed into this work, that all of them must have made plans compared to today. Of course, most of them have plans, truly, we must not forget them, but we can only see that in many places there is no need. Like what? A senator may not necessarily expect everything in a changed year's journey, although the local communities have developed to some extent, but there is always this coordination that we need to take care of in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I think we agree. There's a lot to do there. We just need to take care of how we can make sure that this is done. The truth is, there is very little response plans, very little. There are a lot of general programs, but there are no dangers, eruptions, and other things that can happen. But I also wanted to touch the point on the study committee review, which is discussed in the bill. Indeed, it was so that the government of the public defense, defined in the old law, never received money to do his work until late, and then it was stopped. If you've been involved in a number of actions, leading a review and review, I can say that reactents are probably the most severe criticismal operator you can find. We are highly critical of ourselves, and this certainly is good. I believe that it is of the good that it is done to make a habit of doing it. But whether or not there is a need for a particular approach - I don't think it needs all operations, but it really needs to be some kind of surface on it when it comes to major, maybe very dramatic action, how to solve it. I predicted, for example. only on whether or not there should be an increased link between the P.R. and the council in order to get things forward. But this is certainly a thing that needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u68	A respectable president. I agree with the senator that we must face the fact that we are expected to reconsider all these plans, especially in the light of climate change. There are so many things that we are confronted with, things that have never happened are happening and will happen. So I think it's for everyone's benefit that rural society will be promoted and given outside assistance, and even coordination, to work out local risk analysis and plan properly. I asked the Minister of Justice about the Commission here, and we agreed that the Committee should review and evaluate the P.R. projects so that we can learn from the experience and contribute to improvement within the public defense system. The minister then explained that by means of the arrangement it is not an option for the execution of its own actions or for those responsible for it. We can be talking about very big and serious things. It is one thing to expose yourself - the chairman of this committee has been working in a foreign disaster area and knows something about what is being spoken and is special in this study. So the committee is very well designed, but we'd like to continue it as if I were going to want to make demands on what kind of people came in there, not just political best friends. I think it's very important. I think this is good, you can do it exactly as we do with financial advice. We are not choosing political lines. Rather, we are getting an external review of the most important work of the Allegorium, i.e. ... workingwiththeauthorities. I think it's also a huge case, and we're afraid to deal with the project and let this committee take over and see if we're on the wrong track, as I believe we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the perturbing discussion that has taken place and for many practical suggestions that have come along and been emblazoned. I just want to review what changes were made in our community when we met in one of the cohesion centers in the Forest Environment just a little while ago. In fact, we took the remaining steps around the world in which we were able to synchronize practice and get all the operators together in one place. Previously, there were seven operating centers in and around the city. It is possible to go back in time and recall the avalanches in the west of 1995 and how the wheels changed when we had to activate our public defense system, then activated a government station that was never used on a day - to - day basis, which called for great difficulties. Despite the fact that we had reflexes and organization, and something like this on paper and in books on the shelf, there were a lot of this learning, and perhaps it led to the very fact that we have to set up one uniform management center which is in the day-to-day job of respondents and then only increases the environment as more people come along and the projects become more compatible. There were great changes in this regard. Following these big steps, which could be agreed by the operator's response was set up the head management station in the Woodshaft and then the PMP. As it happens, I was at the time both the chairman of this first co-ordination centre at the Savilion Centre and this research committee, and there is much to it in the past that this committee did not contribute largely to this research committee, and so she achieved, even though it would be called, not properly available to start work and do so. At the same time, however, the steps were very large. During this period of 15,520 years, there have been a very large step in how we study events in this field, whether in a public or in a state that does not reach the level of public defence. This has proved to be a very good development and an experience that has yielded a great deal of benefit. What's the focus for? Yes, it is for learning about weaknesses, for making criticism come on the surface, and for the sake of the discussion, making changes, and developing the system. I think, in view of this experience, we don't have to have a special research committee for public defence. This is my earnest evaluation, not to depart from the things which were said here, that it might be done by self. This is not the case. We can always warn against this, and it is assumed in this bill that the management of the rescue center, which we are going to promote and expand in the coming years, by moving it to a new home and all the operators there, may call for a deeper review, a further assessment, which will occur if there is a great conflict and a warrant. It is also called by foreign experts to discuss these matters and to analyze them and offer suggestions on what can be done better. It is also assumed that the minister of the jury can respond if he is, and then we are talking about something that is highly critical in the community and that causes great controversy, when we have to take the step of taking such a look to that level. I'm telling you, there are so many people coming in, for example. The management center, the cohesion center, from a wide range of sources, has no place of agreement, no need to worry about that, if there is an underlying situation, that in some way there will be silenced. All of them, and experience shows us that we are doing well in these matters, and that's why we've achieved this result, because we're always learning from experience and always putting on the toolboxes. Then the minister can intervene if there is a great deal of controversy and something that needs to be considered much better, and of course, the general council can always rise up and request a report of some particular major events, and it is not likely that they will be. So I think the experience will show that the process we've developed in the cooperation of these reactions, where we've reached them in this vast cooperation - there's no reason to get out of this investigation. I think we should appreciate this experience. I encourage the committee to take the discussion with the respondents on this subject and to be critical of the discussion. But I'm not worried about this. I understand that this is a topic of discussion. I understand that those who may not know very well the processes taken today are concerned. But I declare that there is no occasion for this, in my opinion there is no occasion for this. It is often better to keep the process simpler and more anointed, so that when bigger events occur, we do not have to start a bike that is not regularly running, as happened in the 1995 avalanches. Try to embalm the wheels and work hard on the experience that we have and to improve our practice, which, of course, is the goal of this. If you don't, I thank you for the perturbing discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u70	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for a good story explanation. We've been sitting right over there in this area at the co-ordination station the past decade, we know that there's a good partnership between parties. The bill expects both the co-ordination and the Ministers to have a report made. However, in order to ensure that such a report can be requested from the legislator also, the question is, Is it possible to have a management commission and a surveillance committee asking for it, even if the minister does not agree? This may be a good way to make sure that everyone is happy. But I also think, as noted in this article, that there are certain qualifications for those on such committees who are well defined as they are, but also that they are not too attached to the members of the operation. Otherwise, I think there's a lot of good tips there, and I'm sure the committee will look at it. I repeat, however, once again that there is a need for a full reexamination on this and there are opportunities to fix things too that we know must be addressed, such as The switch between the P.R. and the police services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u71	A respectable president. I think the General always has this warrant. I just think that if there's a very great public defense situation involved, a very great event that requires a very thorough review and the approach of many experts, then the general council has always the authority to intervene in it. It's just natural and it's not likely to happen. Of course, this is an example in major events that have led to very special reports. It is almost impossible to recall the campaign group established after the 2019 storm to evaluate the situation, to learn from experience, and to offer suggestions for improvement, perhaps not a direct study committee, but clearly the group was responsible for covering and offering suggestions on what might be done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u72	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the crews of ships. It is reimbursed in the bill since the last legislation, and it is presented in almost unchanged form. The bill suggests a new total law that combines four layers of law that are in force today, i.e. legalize the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and shipping vessels, fix the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, watchships, cruise boats, and other ships, legalize the registration of sailors, and finally fix the butler and cooks of shipping ships and fishing vessels. On the basis of the laws that the bill is intended to replace, regulations have been put into place that further increase the requirements for the seawaters. Within the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, and then today, the Office is working to simplify and update this whole principle so that it is more accessible to those who work by it. If the bill is expected to reduce the law from 15 to two to four, it may be reduced. Therefore, it would be easier for those who have to apply them to read them and study their contents. In force, there is a wide range of international regulations for the crews of ships based on contracts made by the International Chesalth Agency and the International Jobs Agency as well as the actions adopted in the EEA Convention. The contents of the bill are compatible with these international commitments. The bill divided into nine chapters is aimed at ensuring the safety of the crew, passengers, and ships, strengthening the protection against marine pollution. It contains regulations for the officers of the crew, the seamen's legal registration, the ship's design, duty and work and rest time, the responsibility of the outlaws and the captain, and finally the supervision and repairs for violations of its regulations. The bill also contains the legal regulations for the secretary's rights to set up regulations, including the implementation of specifications on the basis of the EEA Convention. If the bill is legalized, it will take effect on January 1, 2023. Thus, construction, sailors, and other stakeholders will have time to study the requirements of the law and prepare for taking effect. At the same time, the government will have time to update regulations, to simplify as I once did, and to other administrative instructions before the law takes effect. A respectable president. The bill does not suggest extensive material changes in existing laws, but it will be discussed here on the main changes involved in the bill. First of all, certain foreign ships can fall under the standards of the law. It refers to a commercially used foreign ship that lasts 30 days or a total of 90 days each year. It is reasonable to believe that safety requirements applicable to Icelandic ships also apply to them. This law could, for example, be used. ...................................................................................................... Second, it is suggested that the Commission and the Carmunion Committee be laid down and the work assigned to a Grouping Agency. This project has been carried out by a boarding room in regard to passenger ships, passenger boats, and freight ships since the first of July 1, 2001. It is normal to have the same arrangement for such an exception. There is also the view that the committee's decisions are admissible to the minister, and most of these are generally members of the bodies of members of the committees at the same time. Third, taking into consideration their curfew, i.e. ships of 15 m and shorter length to be followed by a 14-hour rule on the basis of 64. g. Seaman song. When their suspension exceeds 14 hours, there will be a separation of two ship managers on board at all times with appropriate rights, and they will also be able to perform the duties of a sub-carversaries with the rights to their functions. This is not a new point, but it is important that the law clearly states it. It is important that Sabbath rules be respected so that those who stand out and sail are not too tired to do their job. The information of the transport accidents to 50 coasts can be attributed from 2000 to the falling of the ship's user because of fatigue and work loads, and the committee has produced many suggestions for improvement in this material. Clearly, not everyone agrees with this rule. Has even. Criticizing the fact that this is the result of the extinction of the monarchs. Is this bill, therefore, proposed annullation of these rules when the owner of the ship is registered as captain and is alone on board. It is the same with individuals who do not engage in daily beach fishing or fishing. Looking at a similar rule in Norway. Fourth, it is suggested that aboard a ship be a cook or a butler in the absence of a ship, not according to the size of a butler and a ship cook. Finally, it is suggested in the fifth order to set up an arrangement for administrative fines that Iceland's National Protection Agency, or the Transportation Agency, can impose on the basis of violations of certain laws and regulations according to their regulations. The approval of the bill is not expected to bring in the financial expenses. Small changes may occur in follow-up with permission for application of administrative guiltys, but the source is not expected to be extensively applied. It is not expected that the bill will significantly affect your job life. It should be noted that this bill has been designed to influence it on equality. Looking at who today's crews in Iceland, it's mostly men. Sporting is a man - made industry and a major gender difference in the entire work - related article. It is urgent to match the gender ratios in this field and to give a wide range of reasons. Within the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, women on cruises are now being assigned to reduce these differences between the sexes in sailing. It should be noted, then, that language in this sector, as well as the laws and regulations that apply to it, is extremely male and are taken to reduce it as far as possible in the bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the basic contents of this bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u73	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to make a whole new pattern of air travel. The bill was previously submitted to the 151th legislation, but it was not granted. Is it presented here with a few changes and updates? Recently approved flight policies, part of a transport programme, focus on maintaining the level of air security and support for further growth and progress of air transport in this country. How appropriate, then, to provide a bill that creates a new and updated link to flight arrangements, which makes sense of modern requirements and international commitments in this area. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure high level of safety in public flight and further growth and progress of competitive flying in this country in a environmental way. The bill contains important changes from current laws as well as changes in other laws. The changes suggested to three factors are summed up. First of all, there are changes in the management of air traffic and surveillance. First and foremost, these changes have occurred over the past few years in connection with Iceland's membership to the European Air Safety Agency, EASA. In a clearer way, then, there is a distinction between the Grouping Agency and the EASA in the bill. This change of action is rooted in the EU Regulation 2018/1139, in public flight, and in the establishment of the European Commission's Air Safety Agency. and her predecessor. The third generation of a so-called flying safety mother has not yet been recorded in the EEA Convention, but the decision of the joint EEA committee has been established and has been sent to the European Commission for review. The scope of this maternal structure is high, it covers all aspects of flight activity and includes both individuals and citizens on public flights as well as on projects and in control. Governmental opinions due to the proposed recording and induction of this type are the same as previously proposed by the Allegorium by the recording and introduction of its predecessor, i.e. Council Regulation No. 216/2008. In particular, the speculative factors turn to the forward of certain European Commission to EASA, which cannot be confused with the ESA, the EFTA monitoring agency and the judicial hearings to the European Court and the EFTA in certain matters. Second, it is an update to the National Rights Protocol of Iceland. I'm referring to both international air-of-air contracts as well as the EU types that have already been adopted for the EEA agreement or are awaiting recording. Here are the variety of commitments that some make. Thus, in the bill there is also a strengthening authority on the implementation of regulations in this field. The bill takes into account the agreement on the joint European airport that Iceland became its member in 2006 and went into force on any particular feature in December 2017. This agreement requires free market access, validity, equal conditions for competition and a common rule. In addition to Iceland and Norway, Member States of the European Union are involved in the contract and Albania, Bosnia-Hergyvina, Macedonia, the former republic of Yugoslavia, now northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and the civil government of the United Nations in Kyoto. It's like this is a list of handball nations. But it was an outcast. At the same time, the bill will consider a new addition to the Safety Management System at the Chicago Convention on International Flights and is proposed to establish a national and air safety programme which will take into account the European Air Safety Programme. At that time, a number of laws of the bill have a direct reference to the EEA's principles, both the new types and those already adopted in the EEA Convention. Third, the bill recommends the legalisation of an international agreement on the damageable responsibility of an airliner, called Montreal Convention from 1999. In addition, there are suggested changes in other laws. The main majority of these changes are terms and references corrected, but there are also a few chemical changes. The greatest changes in transport analysis laws are related to the duties of the Committee to investigate plane accidents and serious flight events. There are also marked changes to income tax laws and laws on the privacy and privileges of international institutions, including the U.S. to address the comments of the EFTA monitoring centre. A respectable president. I will now explain the main subject of the bill. It is suggested that the range of air travel will be extended from the current level. This is in accordance with the broad range of EU air transport policies, such as the role of the European Air Safety Agency on Aircraft, Services and activities in third countries and the European Commission performs aviational service. It is also suggested that the laws take care of other instruments and objects that travel through the air but are not a mission that threatens the safety of air travel. For example, there are astronauts and rockets. The bill also deals with unmanned air missions and their operating systems. The call is for registration of non-human aircraft to the specific criteria of the invented and registration of a pilot and the management of an unmanned aircraft. There have been updated regulations for access to the European Union, including the European Union. with regard to inhuman aircraft, state airvers and flying rights, i.e. The right to fly for a profit in the United States. The obligation of third - state fliers is also required to obtain the air security of the European Air Safety Agency as a basis for flying, starting in Iceland. In a section on the management, tasks and flight control, you are endeavoring to clarify more detailed tasks and monitoring on the European Commission's Air Safety Agency and, on the other hand, the cooperation of these two institutions and the availability of monitoring. General requirements are also set out for the administration of a Community agency with reference to the existing requirements already implemented. It is suggested that the Grouping Room hold two new files, as well as existing reports on Icelandic funerals, a list of the individuals and businesses in this country that operate unmanned air missions, and a list of devices and objects that can travel through the air but are not airprints. In the atmosphere, the bill provides some new indicators regarding activities dependent on the design and production of products in this field. All of these are points already discussed in the number of EEA types already included in the EEA Convention and entered into the national rights. He's at VIII. a section on air traffic control is suggested that ownership requirements be removed from foreign investments in air traffic laws. At the same time, it is suggested that, instead of a full list of the national commitments involved in validation rights, the general terms that generally refer to the agreements that Iceland has taken. For the educational work of individuals, changes to the minimum and maximum age of the pilots of certain types of aeroplanes are suggested and to the certification of personnel responsible for training and who have confirmed in third countries. In the field of consumer protection, adjustments are made in the care of consumer complaints and the legal right to the minister is canceled. Instead, the Court's decisions will be binding on access rights unless the pilot or operator of the airport is directed against reporting within 30 days that he does not intend to be bound to the decision of the Agency. The 1999 Treaty of the Montreal Convention for improving the responsibilities of a pilot is also seeking to create a more solid basis for his contract agreements. A review of a crew at work has been made, particularly at work and rest hours and general monitoring care. A section on airports has some new indicators. The report is on the certification of safety-related airport equipment and the hosts of air payment and management services. A new arrangement is proposed for the consultation of rural partners and a management of airport monitoring of the airport environment. Then there are the regulations on the organizational procedures of the reviews and updates and the notifications of the block and the markings of the block. A guide's field of flight is suggested to provide additional evidence of a service procedure. Could there be a variety of new indicators, such as the um-space service and a coordinated information service provided by unmanned air travel. It also includes certification of systems and systems that provide air-to-air information and are added to the subject rules for the services involved. At the same time, there are new arrangements for the design of air space, including the design and organization of the earth. to ensure extensive consultation on the aspects of the use of air space intended for non-term use, and to ensure the communication of information on air space. In the section on monitoring and authority rights, forced measures and penalties, general control and authority sources are supported, and the Community is empowered to commit administrative fines. There is a widespread ban on the use of psychiatric substances and there is authority on how to monitor them. An official market control agency is also committed to the law's products, including unmanned air travel. A respectable president. I've mentioned here the lead of the bill. There is no time to tell about all the changes involved, but it is clearly explained in the general report that follows the bill. If the bill is legal, it is not expected to have a significant impact on the survival of a government fund. The Ministry will give you more information about the unique support of the bill for what is required. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee as well as the 2nd Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u74	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of testimony, to have reached the point of a fairly meaningful return of 276 grams. a bill in a short, clear front address. This is likely to have a more extensive network of initiatives made by the Council and by the Environment and Transport Committee. However, it may help us to understand that the bill was submitted a year ago, so we already have some comments worth looking at. I'd like to ask a minister in particular to two of them, or two views that appeared in a previous year which I didn't seem to have led to a change in the bill now between the years In the first answer, I would like to mention the review of Iceland's stewardry union, who strongly encourages the council to submit flight teams to the general Law of Caretor, to the extent possible, relative to the unusual workplace. I see this has not been done in this other round of the Ministry on the case. I'd like to ask a minister what viewpoint it is best for him to consider taking this class, and the expected more associated with atmospheric activities, under the protection of a law on how to handle the equipment, the method of loyalty, and the safety of the workplace, by divulging the regulations that would separate the air travel laws from the workers and seeing if we could not get such a more secure and secure environment around this group of people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u75	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that this is probably with the larger legal columns proposed here as a result of a general review of air travel and an update of it for many years, a vastly large law. When it comes to such extraordinary matters, we will simply have to appear before the committee and explain some things in a better void. For asking why. A senator's review of the direction of a pilot has been my understanding that these laws, however, have been improving the state of the crew in flight. These include flight events that have caused illness in a particular group of people who have actually been investigated by the research committee of transport accidents. But this update on the law, as I've got an introduction on, would explain that position better. There have also been conversations with flight crews about such things. I would trust myself to go further into this with the Ministry at the Committee meeting so that we would understand exactly where the difference is and why the evidence is not fully understood. A senator refers to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u76	Madam President. Yes, I suspect the Ministry staff will spend a long time with the Environment and Transport Committee and will review opinions on this matter so that we can get a proper arm around them. Thank the wealth shown by the Minister to do his part there. I'd like to direct my attention to chapter 12 of the bill in my second answer, even as it matters. Airfield planning. This section was strongly criticized by the European Union, where it is concluded that it is important to reduce the risk of a conflict between rural members who have organizational authority in the country and those members who run airports and put it aside by making it clear that the rural government should have a direct discussion with the pilots'selection rather than directly taking the planning of the rural communities, not only in connection with airports, but also in connection with planned airports. This tells us that the relationship is a very disagreeable arrangement, and it stressed that they would be taken into account before the bill became a law. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister, who also handles the local community's affairs, why these details have not been taken into account in the outworking of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u77	A respectable president. I was excited to talk about these matters. It's actually a very interesting case. A senator here tore up, and in many ways it is best to say something odd how the discussion has been about this. Maybe it's just a matter of deep discussion in the Committee. The fact is, this is not some new word. It is not taking the planning of rural society, it is not changing interpretation or any of these things; it is to ensure that there is a specific relationship with things, but there have been adjustments in organizational procedures or the laws on air travel. This is primarily true of public airport planning regulations, i.e. We've got international airports. Actually, it's just a matter of what it's like today. What is interesting is that there are plenty of other laws that contain such laws that affect the authority of your local community in a similar way to those proposed, e.g. a law of electricity in which rural governments should coordinate planning to a 10-year system. Waters are expected to be in line with the government's policies on water protection, as shown in a water management programme. The nature mines log is binding to the development of planning programmes under nature protection laws and in the legislation on the Lakes Earth parks are rural governments bound by management and protection programmes to develop planning plans within the national park. So they set procedures that deal with security issues, e.g. about how many high homes are supposed to be near airports, and they are published to protect the public in order to protect flight security, and I think it's mostly about that. I agree with what. A senator, like any other authority, calls for a little discussion on the committee so that he agrees completely that he or she understands the law correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u78	A respectable president. I'm just going to discuss the point we're going to talk about right now. The minister's comments were made on flight planning procedures and the association of rural members who have the organizational authority in the region and the secretary of the air. You see, I strongly agree with the minister that this is a very interesting matter. More and more, we find ourselves in rural areas as they come to us when the bills are proposed and point out that they are going close to their organizational authority. Last winter, it was in this case, the air travel bill, and for a bill from the Environment and Resource Minister that discussed the electro-line structure. It is both prime products that can be considered as a general debate on the political and organizational boundaries in general, but of course they are tempted to look into exactly the context in which they are presented. The bill of a change in the law that applies, including for electrical lines were expected to be at the head of a long-standing northern nation, thinking as a way to avoid the controversy by removing the decision-making process from the rural communities, where the difference has been the greatest. This idea on the bill for air travel must be taken into account in connection with the ongoing conflict that appears to be between the current government, or part of it at least, and the city council of Reykjavík on the airport, since it was not just the Union of Iceland that made a comment at 144,◯147. par. The bill a year ago. Although the minister has managed to list four or five examples in which there are considered to be greater interests for the State or for the common group of members of a community to have organizational authority in a limited field, there are not many examples. According to Reykjavíkurburg, it is almost unprecedented that the State has limited or influenced the organization of its members. Reykjavíkurburg is particularly concerned with the example of the Cheflavor airport, which may be reasonable to look into in this context, where a special organizational committee is appointed to oversee organization in the Chefjordur airport. The difference between the arrangement and the arrangement as the highest. A minister suggests, however, that the organizational committee is in accordance with the laws given to six persons, three of whom are appointed on the basis of nomads from the former organizational authorities. So while the state enters and takes over part of a organization within the fences of the Cheflavor airport, the local communities are held there too. Not in this bill for air travel. What matters also about how the arrangement at Keflavour Airport was formed is that the suggestions based on a report by a National Experts Committee showing that the airport in Chefavík did not have a parallel in Iceland, including the U.S.A. because at the airport rests e.g. National commitments. It's a defensive and security zone. What it is, in fact, is that the land under the Cheflavour Stadium is all owned by the state while the city of Reykjavík is in the airport - now I can't remember the ratio, not in Reykjavík, half in half, and half of the field by the state? That fact on its own would have meant for a close cooperation with the landowners who come to the city of Reykjavík, as shown in this branch committee of the Keflavour Airport. But the experience has been that it is not. What the European Union suggests is a very simple arrangement that I am surprised by the fact that the Ministry has not been looked more forward to between Congress and Congress. The relationship suggests that it reduces the risk of a conflict between an airline operator and a member of the local organisational organisation, reducing these conflicts without compromising the role of rural society. If we look especially at the Cheflavour Airport where the State has taken over the organizational authority, then there is just a different situation than at any other airport in Iceland. It is the relationship's position that the bill we discuss here is not a cause for variation of the magnitude at the highest. Minister says so. The same reference work is attributed to the city of Reykjavík on the bill. You must wonder, " Why is it not a softer route rather than giving a prime minister a very open check to simply establish organizational procedures, provide organizational guidelines that go forward to the development of international planning plans, then to be expected further in the planning of the city of Reykjavík first and foremost? ' Madam President. I think this is the law that we need to consider and turn into environmental and transport treatments so we can't get any worse. It has been difficult to maintain peace between the current government and the city of Reykjavík when it comes to the future of the city of Reykjavík and the establishment of various legislations that further interfere with these interactions, it is not to the extent that this is the important trend for an airport to move from downtown Reykjavík, and we can develop there a solid and good foundation for the inhabitants of Reykjavík and the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u79	Madam President. With this proposal, the General Information Agency is requested to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the European Commission to make certain changes to the EEA regulations for financial services, in particular through decontraction. Usually reference is to the regularity of the deduction process as EIRC and here it is known as EIRIR Refit, intended to fine-cut the E MIR protocol. Among other things, there are a number of demands for nonprofit partners and smaller financial partners. Various responsibilities regarding decontamination are simplified, competitive ground is equal, and business costs are reduced. It is important to note that there is no compromise in the conduction market or in any system-risk monitoring or intervention warrant for the Rapporteur. The law of the country had to be changed because of its introduction and was adopted by the bill at the last legislation. The law went into effect on June 12 of the past. Normally, this would be a body of interpretation, which would be put forward and taken care of along with the bill, but it did not take place during the last assembly. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u80	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of government clearance to validate Iceland for a free trade deal between Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein, Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Since Britain's announcement of passage from the European Union and as a result of the EEA community work has taken place in ensuring the future interests of Iceland in business and other communications with Britain. The talks of Iceland and Britain have already proved to be very effective, including the U.S. with treaties and joint declarations aimed at ensuring continued close cooperation between the countries. Among the agreements that have been made, there is the holiday contract recommended here. A discussion of his type began in September 2020. They were conducted by the other EFTA countries in the EEA, i.e. Norway and Liechtenstein. The holiday contract was completed at the start of the summer of 2021 and signed on July 8 of the past year. A free trade agreement with Britain is a main source of building in the same way as the free trade agreements the Iceland has made in cooperation with the EFTA. But he is more comprehensive and detailed than other vacation agreements made by Iceland. It reflects the importance of Britain for us Icelanders. Iceland's nuclear interests in a commercial and services trade in Britain are guaranteed by this contract. Britain is one of the most important markets for Icelandic exports and the largest country in Iceland of marine products. The treaty also includes many other business factors, including public shopping, mental rights, environment, work rights, equality, and competitiveness. The Ministry of State and other instruments have given high priority to strengthening communication with Britain as a result of EU discharge. Thus, in addition to the free trade agreement, contracts for the provision of young people's living and working permits, air travel contracts, agreements on cooperation in education, research, innovation and space sciences, etc. There is then a discussion with the British government on a new health - care contract and social security contract. During the contract period and in the preparation of negotiations, the Ministry of State had a comprehensive consultation with the World State Department of State's Foreign Affairs Committee. It is my hope that the General will be able to discuss this matter and make sure that the contract can become meaningful as soon as possible. A respectable president. I suggest that this discussion be terminated if the proposal is referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u81	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of social housing structure, but the movers are members of the United States Parliament. We propose that the General Assembly assigns the government to promote the general housing system by building 500 rented and home-seat-weaps each year, beyond what has already been determined, in cooperation with housing companies without a profit policy. This deliberation proposal is the priority of the United Nations during this council, or one of them, which provides a safe haven for human rights. And now that we're sailing into dress-offs, housing matters will be mainly playing role and deciding how to succeed. Madam President. A secure home is a place that makes individuals and families secure, and we call it in the everyday language of a home. So housing is a foundation, and basic rights and governments must create a foundation on which the market can then build. In recent years, government action on housing has not produced sufficient results, leading to a marked deterioration in the circumstances of many housing markets. Instead of working progressively on permanent solutions, governments have preferred to turn off fires or, in some cases, even exaggerating the problem by promoting a demand without placing any powder that is effective in building up. According to the sociological standards of the Habitat, in 2005 the number of those living in narrow homes increased to nearly 50,000 in 2018. This trend must simply be reversed. This remains in the case of the fact that the cost of housing has increased 40% above the provision of people in the past 25 years and is far more important. Since the deportation of the social apartment system from the Independence category and the advance category by the turn of the century, housing for people under the average income has been offered more frequently, and there has been an increasing increase in the number of house - to - house fluctuations. In 2016, a law on general apartments and the Regulation for building cabib spray by unfavourable tenants was certainly a positive step, but social apartments are still too few, and an attempt to rebuild the social living system is still in full prime phase. So, as previously said, the union suggests that the government takes the next step toward the full restoration of the social housing system, that it significantly increases the general home system with the aim of promoting the security of people and the healthy economy. In addition to what is expected today, it is stated that the government has a prerogative for building 500 rented and home-seat-cube sprays every year in cooperation with non-profit housing partners. A third of the annual construction volume would be combined if they were to survive. This calls for about A double stock raise in budgets and thus could increase the number of apartments across the country for less income groups and reduce the prices of both property and rent. The structure of social apartments may be temporary in individual areas but permanent in others and may compromise different laws from one area to another. Therefore, as with transport policy, it is necessary for governments to set up a long term housing programme and housing policy throughout the country. It's a good thing, and it's a good idea. In any case, more rapid housing policies are needed by the government in close cooperation with rural areas in the country, the labour market parties, and other stakeholders. We'll see, for example. that there is long-term problems in building a home in the country, and lack of housing leads to a less secure labour market in areas where the cost of building is far above the market value of domestic property. In such areas, the State may need to support the long - term construction of apartments. In addition, it is important in this context to examine carefully how to balance the burden of rural society with the development of social housing. In addition, the quality of the housing built for public capital is very important to ensure that sustainability is guided by all structure. An important factor in this is that the state resists real policies and guarantees sufficient funding for innovation and construction research. Madam President. So, with the development of social housing, we take decisive steps toward the future healthy housing and rented markets, steps to fight poverty in the country, but of course, we also take to ensure the human rights that are safe to all the people. A more stable housing market will reduce the economic fluctuation, support the job, and trust the economy, and we can be sure that this is the best way to achieve our goals in climate change, if we are right. Hence, the union suggests that the state contributes to a stable, better, and green structure of social housing throughout the country. To that end, we need a clear view of the future and should not be afraid to use the official in a consistent and reasonable way. Madam President. Safe housing is as self - righteous as food, clothing, education, and health care. So I challenge it to him. Senators taking advantage of these suggestions so that we can improve the quality of life for people around the country. At the end of this discussion, I suggest that the matter be referred to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u82	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in the terms of interest and insurance and rent (actions to help control the impact of inflation on mortgages and rents). My importers are Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The bill suggests that from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022, the index price of consumer consumption, as it was in November 2021, the price of consumer insurance and home loans, is valid for consumers. The bill also suggests the corresponding limitations of housing renting relative to changes in index prices between January 1, 2022 and December 31, 2022. A bill report says, with permission of the President: A global epidemic of crown virus has resulted in severe economic contractions and increasing inflation. Despite the possibility of reimbursement with unconvinced loans, many cannot change their debt this way because of burdensome conditions or expenses. Those who pay off insurance loans or rent are vulnerable to this condition. It is necessary to protect the country's home from the harshest effects of inflation. It is suggested that provisional measures be set up in terms of interest and insurance and rent laws. The directive states that the relative commitments of consumers should not be made to an increase in the period of January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022. After this period of time, such commitments will resume with a traditional format. At the same time, they are only based on the change in index price from the previous month. Otherwise, consumer commitments would be put at risk immediately after the end of the period and that creditors and landlords would maintain their hands in new contracts in the hope of obtaining a full year-old indicator increase in commitment, but this would result in poor loss of consumers who cannot escape them during the period. It is not necessarily necessary to list for members of the Parliament how serious an enterprise's position and home may be due to Covid. All projections indicate that up to the late date there are index increases of approximately 4.5% and 4.5%, respectively, are expected to be underestimated. In this connection, I would like to show that in the EU, in this case, an inflammation is now at 5%, without the addition of the housing team as Iceland, which would be much higher. In the United States, inflation has reached 7%. This will affect all of us in one way or another. We will all feel this in the form of rising prices and payments. The fact is, though, that we are in a position to cope successfully with rising prices, or what has even more impact on household survival; rising cost of housing. It is safe to say that tenants have one worst advantage. Both because it is the most efficient groups in society that are trapped in a rented market, such as the U.S. Single - parent families and underprivileged adults, but also because of contracts, nearly all prices and the impact of a rising index number will immediately affect them. As the last year passed, there were immediately tens of thousands of contracts that had increased, and the numbers and positions of tenants will get worse, but nothing will have to be done. When people have little between their hands, each raise of 5,000, 10,000, or 20,000K. Each month a huge deal. This money simply does not exist in many homes. There is therefore a need for preventive measures. In fact, many people are in the tenet market and realize that most people there are not doing too well financially. These are the most sensitive of our people, and they need to be protected from the tragic events ahead. The tenants, especially those renting by big - profit tenants, have a poor chance of paying for them and rising rent prices. These are generally low - income workers, often single parents and invalids, who have no other house and have no knife or spoon, even though rising elevations still do not add to their problems. True status is not always in harmony with official figures. At the beginning of the 1920's, inflation took place over an inflation target. If the rent has followed the index, the person paying 280,000 rent in January 2020 is paying 308,000 dollars. today. In the meantime, the amount paid is 240,000 bucks, just think about it. To obtain rent that's raised 28,000 bucks. A month's pay will have to rise by less than 40,000, just to earn for this one team. Then you're not taking into account what you're going to earn. Those with 500,000 bucks. 371,000 cc. will be administered over a month. signed. To achieve a paid salary at 400,000 bucks. need a salary increase to 500,000. But rent can rise more than this, and I know a real example of a hired person rising from 280,000 to 220,000 bucks. In over a year. What is the significance of domestic expenses in future dresser talks, and what kind of message are these increases into them? Obviously, labor leaders will keep these figures in mind the requirement for future labour contracts, ending one way in which payaid candidates will survive these increases. In this larger context, we need to examine the rise in loans and rents. Just above the tenants in the food chain are those who have securable loans. It is also often associated with people whose hands do not have much, and they barely reached the housing market by taking the worst loans ever found in the world. What is different with this group and tenants is that he will not feel so much about the cost of living just yet. The monthly payments of this group will certainly increase in rhythm with the rise of banks, but the indicator connection will not fully affect them until after some time, perhaps two or four years. In due course, the monthly payments of those who have securities will be raised to power out of the loans. The precarious loan is generally available to consumers in Iceland, and no other civilized nation has thought of offering consumers a complex road loan that in all other countries is offered only for professional investments. Betrayal loans to consumers need to be banned as soon as possible, but they won't be done in this storm. Now it is simply a matter of emergency assistance to the people who are on the lease or who are committed to securable loans. I'm going to give you a few numbers that tell their story about the insurance. If it's 30 million. K. a secure loan to 40 years of age, which had the first payments on January 1, 2017, is now five years later in 32.6 million. On January 1, 2022, 6.9 million upon loan had been paid. So you would think it would drop. On the contrary, the loan has increased by 2.6 million, and today, as previously said, to 32.6 million. If the 6.9 million had all come to the decrease of the loan's head, it would be at 23.1 million. Obviously, there are other factors to be expected. Yet, it is a striking fact that this number and the amount of money borrowed are far more than 9.5 million. The borrower has paid 6.9 million, but the loan has increased by 2.6 million. After five more years on January 1, 2027, the loan will have paid 14 million, and the loan will last at 36.3 million. By the end of the borrowed time, the borrower will have paid at least 113 million for 30 million. K. loans to current prospects that will likely change as a result of inflation within the next 35 years. Another loan of 50 million. K. which was taken in November 2019 is now 52.3 million and has increased by more than 2 million, although it was paid by about 3.6 million during this two - year period. This loan has risen by 170,000. the average per month. This means that interest and compensation are now calculated by 52.3 million, so that share along with the loan payments will only rise, and this increase will be the rate of growth over the next 38 years. And as strange as it sounds, in recent years the increase will be the most. The nature of securities loans is such that this year's rising due to inflation due to the effects of a pandemic will never be reversed. The increase in payments lends in 2022, whether 5,000, 10,000, or 15,000 dollars. every month, this will be the end of the loans every month from now on. If 35 years of loan remain, the cost of the one year, 2022, will be paid on top of another loan for 35 years each month or 420 months. The pay has increased by 10,000 bucks. will only be the inflation to be expected in this one year. It will cost a home an additional 4.2 million. Then no one knows what the future holds. In time, other years of inflation will be coming, which will still increase, apart from what they inflation fires themselves will add. It should also be noted that when the inflation occurs, neither these elevations nor others that will ever be resolved will be expected to occur again. The fact is that insurance loans have never dropped on a annual basis to their 40 - year - old history in Iceland. In addition, growth, interest rates, and compensation will be calculated from the amount that came from the effects of a crown virus and will be much higher than they would otherwise be. We're talking about snowball, and we need to stop them. It has been said at times that insurance may be a factor for the creditor to receive back the same value he once lent, but when you look at it, it is clear that this effect of one year's inflation goes far beyond that, which is paid over and over again. It is not righteous for the creditor to make repeated tens of years for temporary inflation, and there is no justification that the borrower will have to pay stress every month for tens of years for the temporary effects of a pandemic. But back to the tenants. The tenants of a housing market are without question those who, as we have seen and look ahead. They are at the market where the demand is far higher than the supply and is completely vulnerable to renters. They have no real choice, for the other might be the street. The problem with rent markets is, too, how different the landlords are. It involves both individuals and a large rented business. It can be a challenge, therefore, to establish and enforce laws toward such different sources. To that end, however, we must try to protect those who are in a house - to - house position. It can't be much of a problem to keep track of the biggest tenants and make sure rent prices are not relevant. The point is, whether it's tenants or those with insurance loans, it's the worst of home. The tenure market families have been affected and will be greatly affected by the index-based contracts and the same with prices-separated owners. We need to keep the country's home from being cut off to pay for the financial consequences of the natural disasters that Covid-19 is certainly ten years old until the end of the loan period when everyone has long forgotten about the pandemic that caused this terrible and economic system long ago has recovered from it. The bill is set up, so it is not a retrospective. The subject in November was first affected by payments on January 1, 2022. Of course, it would have been preferable to measure the bill in December 2000, but even if it has not been successful, the payments of February of February are not yet calculated, so that if the General Assembly repays the case before a month's match, the results will not be restored. But if the General didn't get it done before the month's match, it would be at worst if it were possible to move dates around one month and based on the index date of the December 1 through and January 31, 2023. Of course, the same would apply to rent prices. In my mind, this is an emergency arrangement, the least you can do for the people who are living in society. We are able to cope successfully with the consequences of a pandemic. None of us have any responsibility for the situation, but those of us who don't need to consider the next meal, owe little in their housing, afford to go abroad, have room to deal with rising prices and shelters that not all have. According to research, people in the tenet market are those who have the worst in society. This group includes people who can see a knife and a spoon and remember every cent. Of course, not all tenants are in a bad mood for not having a meal before their next meal. Nevertheless, this is the population that has the lowest income in society. Let's not make their situation worse. Let us prevent the damage to the insurance costs of their status. It will be enough, however, for this group to cope with rising prices. In recent years, tenant prices have risen dramatically, and landlords in general do not have the ability to allow them to raise rent prices of an index number each month. Those who have not been able to get rid of valuable loans are also people who do not have much. Let's keep them from paying this pandemic with interest and interest for the next 30 to 40 years. There is also no fairness in doing so. The government has helped companies, but it also needs to be in mind, especially the worst, in a direct way. Home is at the bottom of the food chain of the economy. Before they come, everyone wants their own and in a direct and indirect way, the homes will pay for all of this. Although individuals are renting out the apartments, it is the biggest landlords, the investors, who have generally proved to be the hardest to take. These people are not on the flow panel, and they can certainly contribute to the community simply by not increasing rent to the index. As to the price of your loan, these actions turn to banks and pensions. As statistics and annual reports clearly show, these parties are extremely well - off and far less likely to do so than the homes it helps. Also, when the situation between a person is as different as the home or the street is the only option for tenants or borrowers in a single market, it is not possible to talk about freedom of business or negotiation. This is a specific procedure that will help the most needed. Many of these people live in fear of what the next month will bring. I ask the General to show fellow feeling and to put the groups that are weaker in housing, giving this matter a success. This is the least that can be done for this group. Finally, I remind you that since the disaster began at the beginning of 2020, there has been a high rent and if it has followed the index point since when the person paid 280,000 K. of January 2020 to pay 308,000 today. I reiterate for rent that's raised $28,000. every month, pay needs to increase by less than 40,000 k, just to cover this point, and other predictable increases are not being taken into account. This means those with 500,000 bucks. in a month to make 371,000 pay for 400,000 bucks. paid for this increase. Their pay would need to be raised to 500,000. Think of an upcoming chicken interview and do not add gray to that black color. It's time to put the people first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u83	Madam President. Often we lie on our necks in this hall thinking of too short time, just a few years in advance, or at most one terms at a time. We are accused of being shortsighted, and we are encouraged to think decades ahead, always visualizing how decisions we make in this hall today have a future effect. If we do not, we will lose the opportunity to shape a real future vision for Iceland and what place we want to place in the world society. The bill I recommend today, along with the party of Pirata and the United States members of Helg Völa Helgadóttir, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, Kristrún Frostadóttir, and Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, is the answer to such critical voices. Not only does it address the world's largest problem today but it also provides the basis for a more viable, more responsible and ambitious view for Iceland. So I remind you how important it is to deal with climate issues of ambition, the last seven years are the warmest seven years since the readings began. Probably all the years that followed will be the hottest years in history as well. The seven warmest years since measurements began, which last seven years, may be in the coldest years of the 21st century at the end. There is an emergency, Mrs. President, on climate issues, and this bill responds to that crisis by suggesting changes that will enable governments to be more effective and that will simply require them to face the climate crisis, the most important solution we are facing. The present government system simply does not guarantee the gradual and extreme weight that would identify the government's policies and actions in order to achieve the Paris Convention's aims for global warming within 1.5°C. It is suggested here for four main measures. These actions are listed in the bill's name as an increase in ambition, transparency, and maintenance. It is suggested to achieve higher ambitions by establishing the 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to speed up the goal of a non-carbonization by five years, to 2035. The ceremony will achieve by means of two points; on the other hand, by making governments obligated to take action in climate change and to make clear that measures and plans are in accordance with climate targets, and by altering the order and function of the climate board itself to play a powerful role in governments and that today's stakeholders will be established a new site on climate scene, which we call on the bill. We'd like to get through to that, including strengthening public discussions and making it easier for the public to maintain control of the government. So we're going to make it even. by the Minister's implementation of the government's strategy for climate change and by the process of climate management in its new formulation, public analysis of measures and other government policies. I'm just going to step back to the UN Conference since the last fall, COP26, a meeting of the United Nations Climate Convention, held in Glasgow in November. In the leading up to that meeting, the United Nations Environment Agency met all the national contributions, which said all the detailed objectives that the world's countries had turned in to the agreement and published in the AIDS Gas Report - what do we call this in the Icelandic release report? Gap is an excellent translation because it was discovered that there was a pitfall between the ambitions shown by the countries by numerically, formally, and the ambitions needed. Together, the authors of the report concluded that if only the national contributions that were not conditional, which the state intended to do no matter what, not against any kind of attraction in the international field or anything else, the plans of the Member States would lead to a global temperature of 2.7 °C. It was a little better, but it was less warming than it was calculated in a comparable report the year before, but not close to the goals set by the Paris Convention. The 2.7 °C that ambitiond the states would be expressed, giving a considerable greater understanding of the target 1.5 °C. Together, this country's contributions proved to be only about 7.5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but to meet the goal of the world's total emissions by at least 55%. The COP26 Conference was full of press conferences in which governments presented increased ambitions and plans to reduce coal use and do this and do this, all good and blessed, but the United Nations Environment Agency cleaned up for the time of the conference and collected these new promises of the Member States and calculated whether the report would change anything, and it was found that it was not. These promises did little or nothing about the outcome, for most countries' statements based on either vague promises or promises in the long run that they would not have much to do with the results of the report. You see, what counts most at this point is what the world's countries set their goal after just eight years. There is no need for a much longer future. The grand purpose that we need to look at is an ambition for 2030, the reference year of the Paris Convention. There was a tremendous need. In fact, the Member States went so far that I would like to say, "I'm going to spank my own ass on COP26" when they said that what the Member States brought on the table to be an updated goal for the Paris Treaty's five-year anniversary would be completely inadequate, so they would have to come back next year, not after five years, as the contract puts minimum time for update, with updated national contributions, better goals. All right, some of us might think. But does Iceland not do well? Are we not among those who are in the best of their lives, who are not just good Europe, and should we not be on the march to the joy of our company? I'm sorry, Madam President, but it is not. The last time I gave this bill, I tried to draw up the charts with my hands. I'm gonna see if I can do it more now. We now stand eight years from the 2030's, and the government wants to reach a non-carbon objectage ten years later. In fact, this bill suggests that a non-carbon object will be achieved by 2035. If we say we're going from 100% to 0% after 20 years or so, we can't afford half of it in the middle of the period because greenhouse gas accumulation in the atmosphere is not about the point of each year, but the accumulated emissions of all the years. It is important, Madam President, to remove emissions as rapidly as possible in order for warming to be as low as possible. Hence, the current government's goal is about 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 simply not enough. It is a number derived from the European Union that set this goal in the fall of 2020, but that goal was not the best. It was the European Commission who formed itself at 55%, while the European Parliament's Environment Committee had suggested that a recession objective be set at 60% by 2030. However, an organization like Greenpeace pointed out that even that was not enough, that it would have to be no less than 65% for the relationship. The state - and this is what matters with Iceland's position on these goals - which are easier to do because they, the richest countries in the continent, do more than the poor because it's easier for them, they can afford it, because much of what needs to be done requires investment. Hence, many European countries have set independent goals that go beyond the EU's common objective. By setting up the target in the bill of 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, Iceland would simply follow in other northern countries, one of Europe's most progressiveists. Denmark has a valid target of 70% decomposition. Norway returned two years ago an independent national advance to the Paris Treaty by 50-5555% decompression before it became clear that the European Union would set the goal there, and there debates are about to increase ambition. Sweden has a target of about 63%, and Finland has set non-carbon goals in 2035. All of this goes beyond the goals set by the Icelandic government. I'd like to briefly review the subject of the bill in rough terms, as the articles indicate, in short, though, Madam President, I'm not going to extend this discussion much. In 1st. The bill is these legal goals, which are of great importance to me, that they are not in some government policy system. Today, the law of non-carbon policy has been established in 2040, but when it was done less than a year ago, the proposal of the person here was made to attach at the same time to the target goal of straddling before 2030, which is probably a better criterion to speed things up here. In 1st. The bill is therefore proposed, first of all, to set a comprehensive target for reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases by 70% by 2030 and thereby by the government will have very clear information about where they should plan. Second, in 2035, Iceland is proposed to be a non-carbon object. In other words, it is suggested to bring our goals closer to us in time, but it is in the current law, which is naturally in accordance with the procedure in the Paris Convention that countries should set their goals for higher ambitions at any given time. Incremental ambitions are one of the mare in the Paris Convention. In 2035, the goal of the government in Finland is the one it has set for itself. But then we put them in context of two countries, Iceland and Finland, Finland is a very cold country and a lot of industry there and a heavy industry, so that the projects that governments in that country are not very small. If they can do it, then Iceland should be able to do it too. Third, paragraph 1. the bill to set up an up-to-date national update on Iceland's contribution to the climate contract, validate that every two years the government should deliver up-to-date targets to the climate Treaty. Today, considering the five years in the Paris Treaty, a lot of discussion was made at the fall meeting that it was necessary for this update to be faster, especially in those countries that might have a high level of government power to do this more quickly. It is suggested that Iceland demonstrate its will by showing that we have ambition and that we want to do our part in the fight against climate change and continue to aim for greater success. This link is then suggested that the first update under this arrangement should be done no later than February 7, 2022 - now I did, I think the committee would need to be quick enough for us to reach it. However, this is in line with the final resolution of COP26, i.e. that the countries will submit schedules compatible with the target of 1.5°C for the next conference to begin on November 7th in the fall. Since the Paris Convention expects an up-to-date national contributions to be submitted 9◯12 months before a conference, on February 7 would be due deadlines for a conference in the fall. This was about the legal binding of goals. Two. The bill may be the largest new bill in the bill since its appointment, which is a form of government action. This is an effort to reflect the importance of government action, no matter how winds blow in the Council of Control. To accomplish this, it is necessary for the lawgiver to establish a law of some obligation by the government to adapt all its actions to the objectives of the climate laws. This is a stir of movement that has grown from fish all over the world in recent years, where people are trying to find their right to action, as well as to the inaction of the government. There are very few cases of climate issue being brought to justice in this country, while the United Nations Environment Agency published a worldwide report 2020 estimated that 1,550 cases had been held at that time. The examples that we may have heard most in this country are about to turn to the oil search and license department for oil and gas, and perhaps particularly the lawsuits of young people and environmental organizations against the Norwegian State on account of seemingly no more than one of Norway's plans for oil and gas search. That matter was appealed on the basis of international human rights commitments that require people's right to wholesome environment and nature. Despite the comparable regulations also found in the Norwegian Constitution, the youth and environmental organizations did not work for Norway's Supreme Court, but an appeal to the international rights court is being made. It's all going along in lands. Another example that might be given is Urgland's case in the Netherlands, where environmental organizations were more favorable against the State, and courts simply ordered the Netherlands government to intensify their goals in climate matters, finding that the government was not doing what it would have done for itself. By establishing such a law here and now, we would make the responsibility of the public clearer, increasing the possibility of public and stakeholders to keep the government in their commitments, and thus we hope that we will succeed in turning the protests of the government so that they will take more drastic action each year. In the 3rd. The bill suggests that the government's action programme on climate matters will be much more extensive, a better estimate of the estimated costs and the assessment of the environmental benefits of all action, as well as the natural need to reflect the increased ambition proposed to legalize this bill. In addition, it is suggested that the Ministers submit to the General Assembly decision-making program no later than six months after the development of the government. I think it matters that we are given greater political support, in order that the government has a clearer authority to take ambitious action. It is then stated that, less than every year, there should be a special discussion at the Council on the status of climate at the present time, for example. It's a tradition of foreign affairs. Each year, at the Hall of Congress one assembly day is under discussion on foreign matters, and I think it is possible for the climate issues to get similar space on the program. Then it is suggested to change the order of the climatic Council, as I came to this point, so that it will be appointed by independent experts and given the facilities and funds needed to give governments more support. Today, the climate Council plays a twofold role. It is a field of cooperation and a professional and neutral assessment of government actions. This twofold role is unknown in our neighboring countries, the Council of the Sisters'Council of the Climate, and is that I'm holding a very critical arrangement that we need to correct. This could help the Council to provide the tools and tools needed to become a climate of some kind and to encourage the government at any given time to do more and better in climate matters. Nevertheless, to drag everyone to the table is important to today's climate council. That's why we suggest 6. The bill for this role, to bring together all the members who may have something to contribute to climate action, will be found a more suitable new place. The bill calls it a climate scene that a minister should operate and hold. It would be wise to consider whether there will be an overlap between the projects of such a scene and the Greenvas, which has been run for several years, and will bring together Icelandic and government companies, and even discuss with Greenvail's camp members as to whether they could just take on this role and solve it. This, Madam President, is a grossly ill subject of this bill. Perhaps it is just the end of the matter by compromising a few words that the success of the battle against the climate will have a bearing on how we members of the Parliament will be remembered. Climate change is here and it's today, just like us. If it isn't us who are in this room today who will react? As I said at the outset, there is an emergency, and we may have learned it in Covid that a crisis can be exhausting and it can be exhausting to work in an emergency. But let us not forget that action on climate is also great opportunities in the coming years, endless opportunities that will affect the way to better society and valuable things for the next decades. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why we should think a great deal about the future, we have all the authority to do so, and we have an obligation to do so, and future generations will thank us for that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u84	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u85	Madam President. Thank you. Tenth. Reykv.. n. much for his speech and history. I think we share completely the view that, in Iceland and in the world, this is the greatest challenge of our day, to deal with climate. I'm particularly interested in what is discussed in Article 4. The bill and the order of the climatic Council, particularly because it is in the Government Treaty to strengthen the management of climate and to review the role of a climate Council with increased emphasis on a planned role and scientific work as well as a maintenance and monitoring role for the administration. It seems to me that most of the emphasis is in harmony with a suggestion. Senator. I think it's very important that there is independence in the recruitment and maintenance role of the climate board. In a report with a 4th st. for example, in European climate laws an independent scientific Council was set up in climate issues that consider the lives of 15 people. But these proposals call for about five delegates, two of whom are nominated by the Allied Parliament and three of the University's Cooperative Committee, where we have this scientific decision. If the senator wanted to do a little bit of that, i.e. between the scene and the council, and especially with regard to the approach of young people to this role, where they might be involved, because I think there are many people who agree that it is because of the voices of young people whom we have come in many ways to a better place in the speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u86	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the Treaty brings up what is stated in the Treaty regarding the expansion of the climate Council. Yes, there is a harmony between government and national goals and such, as not the only location in the government covenant where the one present apparently had a positive influence on the text. It's a bill that was put forward less than a year before the government was formed, so I'm just happy to be able to do something good there. Regarding the Council's orders, I am open to how it could be handled. I am reminded that I copied this law from the laws on public finances. It actually reflects the composition and role of financial adviser to the secretary of finance and his plan. I think it's just fine that the Minister of Climates submits to a comparable approach. The government financial laws set up a pretty rigid framework and financial body, which, regardless of experts' advice, I think is one of the best things in that law. Therefore, I thought it would be appropriate to pin it into climates as well. With the interaction with the crime scene, it's now left a little open. In fact, the Minister is left a little of human beings, as is really a policy of climate in the current law where the Minister has pretty free hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u87	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We can compete for who affected who, all of us, who have raised the focus of speech and action on climate. And, fortunately, we have also seen the group of compromises above the list of action, I think, in people's minds and hearts. So I come back to this with the young people and the way they came: I understand correctly that the senator can see that there could be a place on the scene of the world of the 6th C.E. The bill? And so, with the renovation of the General Assembly, I understand that there's a certain limit to what kind of song a person can have on this advice, and why. A senator refers to a financial body. However, in view of the fact that the combination, as referred to in the previous answer to the European Climate Change Act, has been found to be a matter of independent scientific advice. A senator normal for the Council to have the head of an appointment?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u88	Madam President. Because I didn't come up with the young people that last year, I just think there could be a lot of protest within the climate scene, where the arrival of employment, university society, rural society, and environmental organizations is expected. And particularly within the environmental organization, youths have been completely responsible for the discussion of climate in recent years. The current climate Council is completely unbidden in the climate laws, so a minister has self-inflicted instructions on how it is ordered. He can handle people from anywhere. I think it matters that there's some kind of frame around it. How many are appointed by whom I feel everything is not important to me, we can discuss it on the committee. But 4. , about the climate Council - I think it matters that there is a clear framework for the number, commission and project as well as the expertise that the person needs, but that the climate site can be more floating and his work can develop in rhythm during the discussion and need. The bill suggests that he meets a quarterly session. It's going to be such a big meeting for people who want to see action on climate. I think it might be quite improved for us who would like to see the discussion develop faster and more quickly by ensuring that it is the most broad and satisfying approach to young people, since they can be on equal terms with all other interests in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u89	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill, an important bill, to correct a change in marriage law. The bill consists of the united union of two earlier bills. On one hand, a bill set up for the 150th and Jón Valdimarsson was the 1st transporter. ex-contractor, current deputy senator. The goal of this bill was to make it easier for victims of violence to seek divorce. On the other hand, the bill presented for the 151th Council and the question. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was a 1st importer. That bill was set up with the goal of enabling people to get legal divorce without the exception of eating and having a husband and wife agree on this. Along with this bill, a plagion proposal for accelerated court treatment and improved the legal status of family abuse during the breakup has been submitted. The purpose of the proposal is to start work on other necessary legal adjustments, change of regulations as well as procedures that are necessary to improve the status of family abusers in a divorce process and, in addition, to lay the groundwork for a large amount of money to be submitted to the seminary. With the carriers of this bill and the proposal, hopes to get an opportunity to measure it over the next few days and that it will be adopted together with this bill. Madam President. It is far too known that domestic violence is one of the most common forms of violence committed in this country. These offenses are serious, especially since violence is used in close relationships between law - bound people and often very difficult to break. We know that. We know that it is difficult for the victims of domestic violence to abandon a violent marriage mate without adding to the fact that the law specifically stands in its way, and that is what we are up to in this matter. The bill suggests five adjustments in marriage law. I'm gonna go over them a little. First, it is suggested that the time limit for divorce be the same whether he is demanding marriage or both. Second, when marriage mates do not agree to seek it, it is suggested that there be additional freedoms as well as the decision of their marriage. Third, legal divorce on the grounds of domestic violence is suggested to provide practical solutions for those who tolerate such wrongdoing. Fourth, the search for reconciliation is suggested in a series of forms involving child custody. The goal of these changes is to strengthen the position of victims of violence and their right to end marriages. Then, fifthly, it suggests that a husband and wife can obtain a divorce without the exception of separation, if they agree on it, and if their children's interests are assured of custody. The uniqueity of violent crime in a close relationship is, especially, the difficulty with the sufferer in escaping the violence. The women's assessment of domestic violence shows that this can be done in a variety of ways. It may be physical, mental, sexual, financial, and digital, as well as a variety of behaviors that involve threats, threats, control and/or pressures. This often involves more than one form of violence, as well as many manifestations of it, such as humiliation, emotional oppression, rejection, disregard, isolation, and economic control, in addition to what may be the case. has known each other the longest time, i.e. beatings, rapes, and other injuries. All of this, Madam President, should be considered as valid for marital breakups, which is not really the norms of the current marriage law. Several attempts have been made to define domestic violence in law and rules, but it remains that there is no single general definition. The U.S. Marshal's procedures on handling and registration of domestic violence include domestic violence, for example. defined in this way, by permission of the President: ▪ World violence is a person's close exposure to violence, i.e. ... arerelated, linked, or have a history of bonding [...]. Violence can be physical, spiritual, sexual, and/or financial, which includes the use of force or a threat of power. It also shows that domestic violence is not bound to a doer's home and/or to an tolerated person but can take place anywhere. In the 3rd. The actions of the rules guide the violations of the general penal law and child protection laws should be carried out under the category of family violence when close contacts are made. Now, in the current legal requirement of marriage law, there is limited authority to demand divorce if another marriage mate has been informed that the assault or sexual abuse taking place against the other mate or the child who lives with them or has acted in ways that are lost to cause serious fear of committing such an act. One mate can then demand divorce if any conditions are met. First, that the action was done deliberately, causing damage to the body or health of the person affected by assault. Second, the partner of a doer appealed a case or required permission to divorce within six months of being informed of the procedure and no later than two years of his adult life. So third, and the most grievous, to the doer agree to wish a divorce on the basis of his errors. This is supported by 2 mg. 41 st. The law required to seek a divorce may be found on the grounds of a law other than 33. and 1st. 36 st. The law says that if a husband and wife agree on that, that's where they stand, and otherwise they have to go to court. This law means that even if a practicer in a violent relationship has been judged for violations against his partner, even if a police report is available and a proof of injury is also required, the sufferer cannot demand divorce from his violent partner unless his partner agrees. Rather than appeal to judicial matters to demand divorce, with the appropriate delay, cost, and stress, they will be able to do so. The authority to demand a legal divorce by a businessman on the grounds of violence is thus narrower than the authority to judge people for a similar offense where a clear confession and his approval of the court are not required. Here we come to the core of what is going to be restored by this change of law that we expect to become. Another fault of the Mosaic Law is that it does not involve spiritual violence other than what is involved in building a serious fear of mate's being guilty of assault or sexual abuse. While spiritual violence may be more common in relationships than physical, at the same time it is harder to provide conclusive evidence. There are more manifestations of spiritual violence than the resulting fear of physical or sexual violence. Therefore, in order to suggest that the representatives of this bill, which should be said to be more than one third of the United States, would suggest that a businessman can provide a legal separation without the exception of divorce and that his or her mate had physical or mental abuse or threats to it. The way is taken is not to specify with a complete count what is involved in such violence in the regulations of the law, but rather seek to explain it in comments to the article. However, the law does mention certain requirements for proof. Madam President. In the process of this bill, there was consultation with members and persons with experience and expertise in the field of marriage and domestic violence by interviews and meetings. Were even. Talk to lawyers at the county official, the Women's Apologist, and the police, and meet with people who have personally come across the walls of the law to seek divorce after suffering physical abuse from a spouse. This discussion included: until the divorce process, as it is now, has proved to be particularly complex and difficult for victims of shared possessions and children in marriage. In many cases, the stay of women in the women's shelter has increased because until the divorce is passed, they are not entitled to financial support, full child support, and other social services that they could receive were recorded as single mothers. As a result, the longer the divorce becomes, the more likely it is for women, mothers, to return to the homes of violent people. There's a situation that's completely unacceptable. Everyone must see that. The discussion also stated that according to scholarly teachings, the violence of bacteria is still present long after the application for divorce, which both provides further support to the importance of the above approach and is a sign of the requirement of 35. Marriage laws are particularly unfair and burdened by family abuse victims. A five - mile - long divorce process on the part of children and property only results in when there is an unsatisfactory agreement on how to conduct custody and exchange. There is reason to note that the will of a violent man inhibits divorce, and he can thus maintain his power and influence on the life of the victim, in fact, there are many examples. When there is no agreement with the couple on these issues, the businessman can give permission to divorce only if there is a government decision and a court of custody. This is a very high threshold, for expenses, time - consuming, and spiritually tiresome is being handled in judicial matters because of the high value of children. In agreement with the number of people involved in this case, two solutions were mainly mentioned in this issue. On the one hand, even though the case of a married couple was undisputed, a businessman is allowed to issue a divorce permit. In this way a couple would be able to complete their own issues at their own pace without being married during and even being married. pointed out that such a solution is found in Norwegian law. The other way would be to clear out the rules of urge to reduce the trial of premeditated court, the victims of domestic violence. At these meetings, the view was also given to be related to reconciliation, as well as to the concept of reconciliation over a head, was ill - advised by the victims of domestic violence, and it was difficult to see the purpose of reconciliation between an tolerated man and a violent man. It has to be said, as it is, that it is simply a humiliating concept for women, for people who have lived under violence on the part of a marriage mate, who are looking for ways to get out of it. In such cases, reconciliation is rarely prerequisite. It came to the viewpoint of these meetings that reconciliation therapy would be desirable for a discussion of the premeditation of a couple's autonomic children, resulting in their adapting to this bill. It was also suggested that a conversation with a businessman or a judge be a principle, but it would be permitted to continue to wish the reconciliation for a representative of religion or principles. So it is only to explain that although this bill is intended to improve the situation of victims of violence, this will be done if it is determined by the number of people we interviewed in its preparation, the access of the government and the Minister of Justice will be required to facilitate the provision of a representative of the county to respond to spiritual violence in the treatment of divorce. It is necessary to ensure the access of psychological or social experts to negotiate terms of divorce, not just lawyers. Furthermore, the possibility of legal divorce should be fully explored, although there is no agreement on money change or predestination and exoneration rules. That is why, as I mentioned at the outset, we have proposed a special assembly resolution on the subject. I hope she'll be brought here in the next few days. Madam President. It is long time for us to make the divorce process more efficient for victims of violence in close relationships, for us to listen to their experiences, and to explain harmful bottle necks in the system; for all of us can agree that here and elsewhere the system should be built up to serve people, not to place them in place or to prevent them. Marriage is a legal arrangement and formally confirms the agreement between two persons to spend their lives together and to share responsibility in homes and children. Marriage also involves faithful and progressive marital obligations, as well as the right to genetics of another marriage mate. The basis for marriage is the agreement, and people should simply be able to accept and agree on their own terms. For this reason, we also recommend in the bill, as mentioned at the outset, that a husband and wife can obtain legal divorce without premeditation, if they agree, and if the child's interests in their custody are assured. In current marriage laws, there are narrow conditions for divorce without the exception of separation. Nowhere is it to assume that two adults simply want to understand, whatever the reasons. Transporters do not consider it the responsibility of the government to restrict the legal rights of a couple if there are no special interests requiring it. It should be noted that similar laws to the latter are in the marriage law in Denmark and Sweden. Like other laws, marriage laws should reflect the spirit of the times. Social emphasis has been greatly altered, including when considering the roles and positions of authority at home and when considering individual freedoms, as well as changes in the status and importance of marriage as a fundamental component of society. Although it is still such an important fundamental unit, its impact has been reduced by the development of more diverse living forms, with increasing community support for single parents and the acceptance of society in different family patterns. Thus, according to the moveers'opinion, there is not as strong evidence for the long limit of legal divorce as in previous times, especially where time limits and restrictions prove to be a source of great burden to those with whom there are marital violence. Similarly, a person is free to marry, and he should be free to break up the same marriage. Madam President. If the goal of making violence easier for those in the family to separate from one another, if we can make it a more realistic option than it is today, a great victory will be achieved. It's a court order that too many women have waited too long. I know women that this bill could have made all the difference, had it come first and become a law. I hope this case is quickly decommissioned. Countless numbers of victims of violence rely on it. This will have a real positive effect on people's lives, health, and security. Finally, Madam President, I suggest that the bill be referred to the General and Education Committee after this discussion and I believe it and trust that there will be a good and abdicating there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u90	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that I agree with the objective of this bill. I just want to roll up two things, though. A traveling overseer now says that two cases are intertwined, and I've been looking into some introductions on marriage issues. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson moved. Here's a review from the businessman of Kópavogi who says - as we know it is marriage, if we ignore the dress, the flowers, the church, the shoots, the jugular between two people, and when it comes to breaking it, a businessman points out that the rules of the administration are required, and the right of protest is strong. I'd like to ask someone who's been through these rules and if it's not that long.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u91	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad to hear that she agrees with her goal because I believe that then it will get through. - That's right. - Support 'em. The senator will make a difference. Hv. A senator brings up objections for the administration. There is a possibility that in the case, as it is assigned here, it is endeavoring to explain comments to the article - because there is now a why. A senator talking about the first section, not where it's in harmony. There are certain proof requirements in the bill, and they are the following, so I'll just review that in this article, with the permission of a president: ▪ Despite the regulations of 36 C.E. Another couple may demand divorce without the exception of a marriage mate, or a child who lives with them, may resort to physical violence. And it goes on to say: ▪ The license to divorce should be agreed on the basis of the procedure if: a. If any man walk after his transgression, or if he be judged, b. Information that confirms the call for domestic violence is available in a police report, or c. Other evidence, such as an injury certificate or a psychologist's assessment, suggests that the couple requiring divorce, or the child living with them, suffered physical abuse on the part of their spouse. I would count this to meet the demands or expectations of the administrations for the legality. It's really about leaning on these things in the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u92	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. There's something else I can think of. This is a legal act that two individuals do with them, and this is a case of violence, i.e. that one partner may be violent in his marriage. What, though, if there is no violence, is it not as easy to lighten these demands? Do both parties need to agree? If one side does not agree to stay in the marriage, it will also take a while. Does not a messenger feel that it is necessary to make it easier for a person to get a divorce, although he is not violent in his marriage, he just wants to get out of it, but the other person does not agree? There have been cases where people have separated from the table and then deny the other person, although violence is not necessarily involved, there may be property and other factors that hinder the other person from accepting legal divorce. Is it not good to do so if a person wants to walk out of this process, to make it easier for him to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u93	Madam President. Thanks again for the counter-regulated. This is a very interesting and good point, and I'm ready for this discussion at any time. I feel, however, so I just say it out, so shamefully, that in some cases the level of violence in a relationship is becoming almost impossible to get rid of, that I wish, and the carriers of this bill, have the emphasis right now. And then I'm both mixed up to whether I want the debate to go out on this particular case because I'm afraid it'll kill emphasis on spreading because I think it's so important. But I'm sure I'd like to talk about these matters at any time. I know a case like that too. It's not simple. Although it is not exactly the definition of violence that we establish in this matter, such as force. A senator mentioned, forcing people to associate with him or to bond with him against his will is nothing more than violence. It's just a very complicated matter. But right now, I'd like to see the Allied Council finish this particular thing and take the second step.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-18-23.u94	Madam President. I may get to start where the fighters left off earlier because of what happened. paritaprevir After all, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir pointed out that matters. It sheds such light on the many aspects of marriage law that today need to be examined and reviewed and corrected. I went so far, we answered at the highest. Minister of state earlier today, to say that there were so many spots in the law that they needed an overall review. I think we've just come to that place. It's 29 years old law, society's changed a lot at the time. They no longer reflect the reality or the needs of modern society. But next time, let's get together. A senator mentioned earlier. Although I completely agree with what happened. paritaprevir That's what I'm going to say to the Signý-Cunny Kristjánsdóttir. A traveling overseer sees that violence is now a good thing to do because it is the most complex. There are situations where communication is completely gone into the propeller, where there is nothing in harmony, where no agreement can be made. I have to thank you very much. A senator for having won this case so well and with great respect for the people in need of this legal arrangement. It is not often that we see the bills coming from members of Congress as well prepared and prepared as this bill. I'm just very happy that I've been invited to join a importer in it and hope that it reaches all the way before spring. I don't want to spend much time with the violence, okay? A senator well explained them in his historical history, but I would like to mention only the 9th paragraph. the bill that can be considered as an opportunity to do what is right here, because of what it says. A traveller paid me the great favor of taking over a bill I put in here for the last winter about what I call a quick divorce, which is, in fact, legal separation without prior separation to table and bed if a husband and wife agree to look for divorce, and there are no other interests that call for them to go through a longer process. Everything about custody of children, possessions and all of that, there's no trouble, there's peace and harmony. There's only adults here who know they don't want to be together, and then it's totally ridiculous to have people sit off for six months, get to bed. I did research at the 148th legislature, asking for the current Justice Minister, how much divorce in Iceland would be a direct legal divorce. Over the years, there were well over 1,400 legal divorces a year. 55% were direct law divorce. Let us review, Madam President, that a warrant for divorce without the exception of separation to a table and that the bed is extremely tight in the current law. This is allowed to happen in the case of adultery or in the case of another mate who has become aware that the victim or the child who lives with him or her has been the victim of sexual abuse. To test this arrangement, there must be proof of such a violation, either in the form of confession or in the form of solid evidence. Now, I don't have much research to support this claim, but I'm going to say with full feet that I don't believe that 55% of divorce in Iceland is a result of violence or adultery. I think much rather that people have found a very comfortable way past the separation to the table and to bed. One of them simply admits that he cheated on us. It's a simple way, but it's too uncomfortable. There are people who have been married for a long time, they've been sharing a home, so they find out for some reason that they don't want to be married anymore. Then there are two factors to choose, if it is completely agreed to understand; it can either last six months, separate from the table and the bed, which can lead to a successful relationship, and the divorce will not be as much in harmony as it could have been if they had just escaped directly. Or one of them will bite the molar and lie about something he may not. In this situation, e.g. People in whom one partner comes out of the closet and realizes that the person in whom he or she thinks she is in love with is not at all connected with what the person wants in another person anymore. Why is there no valid reason for direct divorce? Now or that people have been together for a very long time and they've just completely stopped being in love. Because you can't tie love in some kind of government proseduras, people just know it, and people know it long before they go to the county for divorce. The point is, when people come to the county and seek a divorce, they have been separated. They've been trying to move on together. They have been assured that they do not want to remain in this marriage anymore. That's why, Madam President, is the end of 55% divorce in direct divorce because people are so handsy that they want to divorce their mates that they are willing to take on one little lie. But this, of course, doesn't have to be, for just as we trust adults to get married, just rather fast and sure - they have to put in papers to the businessman and go over the papers, maybe take a week, and after that they can get married - we should trust these same adults to break up the marriage as they did. That's what I wanted to say about 9. the bill, but reiterate what I said at the beginning of my speech, thank you to the carrier, and to those who were with her to negotiate this great bill, which I look forward to getting far.
