ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u1	A letter has been received by the Director of Education and Children's Affairs to provide a written answer to a spell. 486, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u2	Mr. President. I hope to introduce you next week in the government of a new foreign bill that will solve these urgent matters, said the highest. Minister of Justice on the radio this morning. And what are these vital issues? Yeah, he doesn't think it's going well enough to kick refugees out of the country. There's no law to force them into physical testing, he needs the legal authority to direct them on the streets in Greece. He intends to use the Ukraine War to justify it. It is disgusting to use war in Ukraine as a pretext for robbing people of human rights. It's disgusting that the government is going to do that. The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son now test the government to see if they will allow this disgusting attitude through the government and members of Congress, whether they will participate in the war of Jón Gunnarsson's son against the rights of the people to flee or take a position of humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u3	The president reminds the senators to take care of their word and choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of justice could take care of his words. He should guard his words before stirring up sensitive groups against each other in some form of his own peakism. You see, it's really disgusting to incite such groups against each other, to take advantage of the war in Ukraine to lead a group of refugees on the street in Greece. Let us not forget that this is the same group of people that the Foreign Institute pointed to the street a year ago in mid - winter against law, as has been decreed, without legal authority, without any consequences to the Foreign Institute or Minister who allowed this to happen. And that was exactly what it was for. To force these same refugees to undergo physical tests so that they can be shown to the street in Greece. Now it is to use the war in Ukraine to lead them away to the street in Greece, all of this in the name of humanity. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u5	A respectable president. It's not just a matter of being allowed by a minister to direct people on the street in Greece, which is certainly one of the reasons behind this bill, but to lead them to the street in Iceland. A member of the Foreign Committee confirmed that it had been illegal for the Foreign Institute to direct people to the street because they refused to undergo physical examination, for two things are totally unrelated and obvious to anyone who wants to realize that it is completely illegal. And even if it was legal, ask yourself, " Is this really in harmony with human rights agreements? ' But who are these people as ministers? V.E.G. The Minister of Justice speaks of refugees who are not coming from Ukraine or who are not Ukrainian citizens, who are dishonest people or such. The majority of the people whose actions are directed against whom the minister of justice announces are refugees. They're people who have the approved status of a fugitive. [[The president calls.]] These are people who have already confirmed, understood, and said: You are a fugitive. They search here because they have no hope of living in countries where they have remained on the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They're refugees. They're all refugees. It doesn't matter what color it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u6	The president reminds us that the session for President's conference board is only one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u7	President. That was kind of the last thing I expected this to be a government debate on how to deal with the Ukrainian refugee problem. I expected an announcement of how we would receive someone who is, for example, warmly. with Iceland, would help them connect their families there and bring them here to Iceland. But this is a substitute. I can't figure this out, Mr. President, because the time here at the council meeting is important, the time in the Hall is important, and therefore I don't understand why the government is making such an outcast instead of answering us right away: How to deal with the refugee problem from Ukraine? Not by saying, "We must first rid ourselves of those we have here before we can receive someone else. " I feel totally unacceptable, and we need to get better answers from the government on what to do as soon as the problem is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u8	A respectable president. When I was a little boy and experienced the Eyjafian, a man could feel so good about how qualified we were to react in need and ready to help people. There was no need for help at the time, and that's how I sensed these things, that we are going to help people in distress, wherever they come, whether they come from the Western Islands, Venezuela, or Ukraine. That's how I want to watch this. I think it's special that we have to throw people out of Venezuela because there are other refugees and better refugees coming to the country. V.E.G. Minister of Justice mentioned that there were 10% more refugees from Venezuela than among other northern nations. [[The president calls.]] It's understandable, if there's ten here from Venezuela and there's one, it's 10%.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u9	Mr. President. Now, most of the time you're gonna come up with this team and complain that the government doesn't bring it in, but now we're really talking about a case we don't want in. There is good reason to review this matter only because in the leading of the 2017 election, all the classes that were then held at the council, their president, were to be revised by the foreigners'laws, and more humane. But this group of independence seems to have a complete body of programs, and we have seen it in these last days and weeks. How each event runs another event, which makes a pattern that we must all see. With the citizenship, with the deal with the Red Cross, and now this. It will be the responsibility of the forward-class and the left greener if these cases get through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u10	Mr. President. I call attention to the fact that this is not the first time that this case has entered the council. A major part of it has been rejected from the council repeatedly. What we are primarily protesting here is natural that this is to be carried on the council's table one more time, but especially under any merit. It is up to the premise that there is no room for refugees, all of us agree that there is a need for protection. This is completely unannounced, and it is only that presently stings; that they should be sent out to the street or sent out of the country by refugees, to receive refugees who are born somewhere else. I'd like to make a suggestion for the highest. Minister of Justice: If he is concerned primarily about the stay of the people in the management of a foreign agency, there is a very quick way to solve that problem. It's granting these people permission to live in Iceland so they can start their lives and they can take care of themselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u11	President. I can't believe the other 62 members here at council, other than the highest. Minister of Justice, don't have humanity in your heart, that you sitting here are going to let a racist bill pass through, because that's what it is. People should be excluded because of where they come from while they can be received kindly. I can't believe you guys did that. Senators, and I hope you'll join us in stopping this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u12	The president reminds us that members of the council are from the platform to address the president, not other members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u13	A respectable president. The Ukraine war is frightening, but I feel that it is even more frightening if we are going to mix it with something totally unrelated. That's where the sky is and the sea, and that's none of the other's business. We are to show the respect here at the General Assembly, those members of the government who speak, not to mix these two. We should see to it that those who need it and do it well and follow laws and regulations at all, not mixing things in very different ways. We are watching a war in Ukraine, where children and people are falling, and we are to respect it well enough so as not to mix it with something we are doing here at home and to see our own worth in doing properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u14	A respectable president. Discussions on this matter have also been made on the tip of the world's highest level. The minister of justice, the man who leads this suit for us, the man who went to a meeting on this matter in Brussels on our behalf, that he doubts about the integrity of the refugees who came across the border from Ukraine, that there are people who are finding abuse of their facilities by crossing the border from Ukraine and seeking refuge, now not everyone who wishes to get refuge in the wake of the shooting in Ukraine. This is the representative chosen by this government to talk about this subject, to be in charge of this matter. No one's going to tell me that the Ministry of Social Affairs is going to make an extra effort for this. This is the man who represents this government with refugees from Ukraine. [[The president calls.]] He is using the same speech as the former president of the United States to justify a search for refugees'rights. [[The president calls.]] This is your agent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u15	A respectable president. We face one of the most serious conditions we've ever seen, I say in memory, in Europe. An invasion into a free and sovereign state that will result in an enormous problem that we will, of course, shoulder with our friends and fellow nations. Of course, we will not fail. Me and the Icelanders have everything to put a place of safety on those who need it. I refuse to allow myself to discuss what is going on here that the government will not live up to its words that fell here yesterday and some of the other parts of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u16	Mr. President. I felt compelled to come up here and take my heart out with a bang. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik, the Friðriksson of Friðik, is about the words that have been passed down here. I remind you that this has been our discussion of a very important and sincere contrast between council members in the affairs of Ukraine. The words of both prime minister and social and employment minister as well as the secretary of state have confirmed that, of course, we will be a nation of nations when it comes to helping refugees who are in this terrible situation that we watch change from one minute to one minute in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u17	Mr. President. I'm not sure they were. Government officials who spoke before have heard the discussion because we were not talking about whether Iceland was going to meet refugees from Ukraine. I think there's a chance that there's a chance. What we are criticizing, however, is at the highest point. Minister of Justice is going to use the trip, intends to use these refugees from Ukraine as an excuse to come against a bill, which he is the fourth secretary of this government to try to come through, a bill that is merely about being able to kick people out of the country faster. It's not the Ukrainian refugees who are supposed to kick. It is the people who are fleeing the scene in Palestine, Syria. They're the people who've broken the law when they've been removed from their service here. The law on pregnant women has been violated when they are granted an airline card from the secret physician of the U.S. National Institute of Human Rights. And because the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was retorted by this law, they intend to change the law so that they can violate the human rights of refugees under the cover of the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Using the war in Ukraine as a pretext for this, that is repugnant, President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u18	A respectable president. With President's permission, Steinn Steinarr composed the silent song. I have listened so often to the silent tears, The silent tears which fall in the darkness; So mourning, and hopeless, and weak, and afflicted. like a weak man, who can barely hear. There's a war in Ukraine now. The latest figures say that on another hundred people died and on another dozen children. We must stop this dictator who uses violence against democracy. The public is a target and children. We're supposed to end a political relationship with Russia. It's our duty to send the ambassador and sponsor of Pútín home. Our mission is to send a clear message. The second part of this talk will I use to offer silent prayer for peace for Ukraine. - Send a clear message. Let's stand with the Ukrainian people. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u19	A respectable president. Today, the rising sun in February and March takes place a year - tested event in Icelandic community talk. The parents of babies born in the first few months of the year, waiting to be given a place for, whether in infancy or in the day - to - day parents, resort to nothing. On the other hand, one community has emphasized its approach to bridge the gap between birthday orlofs and day - care after that, in Reykjavík. New figures show that the proportion of children starting their schooling in the city before the age of 24 months has increased substantially, i.e. went from 46% to 2018 to 70% in the fall of 2021. Seven new nurserys will be opened in Reykjavík in 2022. In contrast, there will not be any school opening at the same time in Kópavogi. However, it is not enough to offer these space; it is also important that children be checked on their terms. The current legal environment does not allow larger rural communities to register in preschools in terms of younger siblings having their priorities at the same nursery as older ones. In fact, many families, just out of maternity vacations, are faced with the need to drive between them and sometimes a community to approach daycare. In this, everyone, whether seeing from the environment, working, traffic, social integration within the family will be lost, or important, siblings will be lost in the first few years of their lives. Mr. President. I call it a part of the legislation of the legislature force to change law No. 90/2008, about preschool, allowing local communities to organise in a way that allows younger siblings to have their priorities in preschool and to take into account their new home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u20	A respectable president. At a district week, delegates met with the South American District Governments in the Southnes. There, interesting figures were drawn forward to the situation, including for the health status of the Southnesian Institute. Although budgets for the HSS have increased in current budgets, they have increased all over the country and no more in the South. The implementation of a new global funding model for health care has begun. I'm afraid it doesn't work with the Southnes. Because of the development of this financing model, weighing factors such as young and heavy society. Southnes get even. not calculated by small contributions. In reviewing the number of HCPs for each member of the population, it is seen that most people are attending each healthcare professional in Southnes, or 128. Most of them are not in the West, nor are they 40, and in the north there are 95. In 2020 there were 79,000 Southnes, an average of 116,000 for each country. Then there is the serious situation where a large number of people drive to Reykjavík, after health care. Alternatively, e.g. For example, 45% of the people in Voga community choose to go to the capital area for health care. Last year, the Southnesia population represented more than 28,000 people, 21% of the population of the region. The Southnesia contribution, however, was only 14%. The Southnes have the only health center on 30,000 people, but the capital area has 11,500 inhabitants on each health care unit. That is why there would be three health care units on the South Side. A respectable president. It's time the State started to fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u21	Mr. President. During the over 100 days that have passed since the United Nations Climate Conference in Glasgow, the richest 1 percent of the world's greenhouse gases have been released as much as all Africa will do this year. This worldwide misunderstanding is made clear in a report published yesterday by a United Nations expert team on climate change, where the consequences of climate change are focus. This report may not be new, it was last made seven years ago, but it is much clearer. This report is more clear than the one published seven years ago, and it is well - meaning for seven years since 2014, when the last report was published in the seventh year of human history. It takes responding to climate change, and it takes even more to do so. The report shows that in recent years and decades the failure of the governments to cope with climate has led to the fact that half of mankind, 3.6 billion people, already live in the consequences of climate change, often very serious. The lack of action is also reflected in the fact that during a conference in Copenhagen in 2009, the rich countries recommended to put $100 billion in action against the consequences of climate change to the poor. That account had come to the due date of 2020, and they betrayed that promise. This inaction is also evident in such unlikely places as Europe has not changed to the green energy needed to cope with the climate, which is therefore the source of Russian gas and oil, which is responsible for the stríðsrekstur of Putin. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] By drawing up on climate, politicians are responsible not only for the direct consequences of climate change but also so much more tragic events. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u22	Mr. President. Olga Dibrova, U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, had an informal meeting early this morning with a foreign - language committee here at the Assembly Hall. Clearly, every day the severity of the situation grows, and more and more weapons are being used. There is concern that civilian casualties seem to increase rapidly. We are living in a world-historic time, events that will have a major impact on the European security issues of the next decade. We see great and rapid changes in EU, Germany, Sweden, and other countries. Changes have occurred in the last days, which would not have been considered highly unlikely or impossible long ago. Europe is united in this matter. It is my sense that for decades the European community has been no more of a subject than with this Russian invasion of Ukraine. It was unique to find a meeting at the National Assembly of February, last week, including members of the Parliament, and then at the EU Parliamentary Conference on Common Foreign and Security last week. I find great solidarity among Icelandic senators in Ukraine. We who live in small countries like Iceland all depend on international laws being respected. In recent days, I have thought about how much forethought and fortune was on behalf of Iceland that the present rulers fought for involvement in the North Atlantic, NATO, and a defense agreement with the United States of 1949 and 1951. Our emphasis is on helping the Ukrainians, as a foreign minister has emphasized, to be through humanitarian work. We should do our very best to assist the Ukrainians in their distress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u23	A respectable president. We hear and see every day shocking reports from Ukraine following Russia's attack. Though the Ukrainians fight valiantly for their country, the situation is very serious, no matter what the situation may be. Many citizens have been badly harmed, injured, or even killed. The mayor of the Vatican claims that he cannot tell how long the Ukrainians will be able to resist the invasion, but that will be long. The damages will be great when the state is forced to resist such an attack. Ukraine needs help and has requested it from the international community. Most nations have responded to the call, and Iceland is no exception. Surely we can condemn the invasion at every opportunity, as we have done here on the land. There are nearly half a million people already fleeing the war state in Ukraine and the pictures we see are tragic. That number is rising rapidly, and it is the role of Iceland in society to welcome refugees from Ukraine. The Icelandic government has already declared a plan to receive Ukrainian refugees. There we need to act quickly and safely, since time does not work with us. I especially want to remind you of the situation of disabled people who are in a very difficult situation and who may not even be able to escape without special assistance, in fact, often depend on the assistance of others. We are there as a nation to shoulder responsibility. In addition, Iceland has been gathering for basic assistance to the Ukraine. The need for food, water, medical products, health care, and other activities grows each day. A respectable president. The situation in Ukraine is serious. Iceland and I are with the Ukraine, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u24	Mr. President. During these terrible tragedies, Pútín leads his army in an attack on Ukraine, where innocent citizens are not as restless in all warfare. Schools and hospitals are targets, and even more disasters are on the rise. Today, citizens of the country wait between hope and fear as trains of heavy weapons move closer to their cities. It is admirable to see the international unity of the Ukrainian nation and the illegal invasion of Russia in Ukraine. Presidential Ministers and Foreign Ministers have described the position of the government, and Icelandic Parliaments are united in their condemnation of Russian warfare, and this is essential. Now on the sixth day of the invasion, it is clear that it will touch all of us, most of all, in the field of humanitarian assistance to the people of Ukraine who have already fled, and it is evident that they will increase rapidly. Half a million people have already had to leave the country, and shocking images are showing us that separate families escape Russian attacks. Where people have fled from Ukraine and Russia and are planning to open their arms even more to the Ukrainians. The Icelandic government has also claimed to do and has to put it clearly and carefully in action without the need for candidates for international protection and service. We will also feel the economic impact of the invasion and need to be prepared here on land like any other European country. Russia's invasion has also had a tremendous impact on European politics, as we can see in the reversal of Germany's foreign policy and that the European Union is for the first time sending military data to another non-EU. Mr. President. The most important thing today is that we fully cooperate with the Ukrainian nation, not in our own political quarries, and speaking everywhere that the invasion will end immediately and that peace will be restored immediately. Me and the Icelanders have a voice, and let's use it for peace. [[Open your eyes, hear, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u25	A respectable president. A United Nations Interim Report on Climate Change was published yesterday. The report is the product of a team of work I've been a part of as a co-writer and will evaluate the impact of climate change on biodiversity and communities, as well as the results of which I have proposed necessary adaptation measures. Once again, science gives us unambiguous messages: Climate change threatens mankind's well - being and prospects for creating a viable and sustainable future for all. The changes are faster than we can imagine, and time is short. The report calls for a clear policy by the government and highlights changes in climate justice. I'd like to stop at the concept of climate justice because the use of the term in this report is historical and gives evidence of a significant change. The impact of climate change on our lives varies depending on, for example. Farm, sex, class, financial status. Climate righteousness means taking this into account in all procedures. This has been a clear demand for developing countries and a positive result of seeing the increased application of this word. I would like to mention three factors related to this report: First, the report shows that more than 3 billion people already have a lack of protection against climate change, and a high percentage of animal species are also vulnerable to their influence. Second, the report highlights cooperation between different groups and the work on the knowledge of the climate problem. Here are local knowledge to form indigenous groups, who have so far become of little value in comparison with conventional scientific knowledge. Third, the report, with great confidence, says that separate and systematic solutions based on social equations and climate injustice reduce the risk of climate change, thus creating a course for climate tolerance. There is a great need for increased measures and financial support from Western countries and communities that are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Mr. President. International cooperation has rarely been more important than ours, and we must work together for ambitious and righteous climate activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u26	V.E.G. President. I present here in the public talk program for residents of the Southnes, who for a long time have experienced insecurity of health care in the area for far too long. Clearly, budgets for the group depend on other areas, so the group is greatly subsidated. It is disturbing for an institution that serves such a large area and is located in the fourth largest rural society in the country. You cannot tell tens of thousands of people in the South that they can only go to Reykjavík, where the pressure is now high enough. Today, there are nearly 30,000 inhabitants in the area, and the rule of thumb is that there are about 12,000 people behind each health care provider. Today, there is one emergency room and one health watch on the Southnes. There is a lack of health care professionals, and when the Agency's reputation becomes negative, it becomes much harder to get good staff there. The house - to - house affairs have been in disrepute, as well as subservation and design problems. Last year a health minister agreed to start a new health care programme in I.N.A. The problem is that it will not be ready until the end of 2024. The people of Southnes cannot live insecurity and poor health care for more than two years, and we demand that a temporary solution be found until the time for new health care. The town government of Smokejanes has challenged the health minister to solve an emergency by opening temporary health care as soon as possible, and I face the challenge. Southnesja's clinic has many good people who burn for their work in the Agency. Let us not overlook the wealthy. All of us must work at improving what is needed in order for the Agency to perform the role it is designed to play on Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u27	A respectable president. Fish farming in Iceland is a growing young industry, but over the last few decades there has been a great rise in fish farming. It is important that we look to developments in neighboring countries and use the experiences there so that healthy activities can be built up in this country. We have not had the wisdom to develop strong laws and rules in health and environment, and it is important, both for the industry and for us, that it is followed and that the surveillance is active. Sadly, the property of salmon farms in Iceland has been developing in a way that has a high degree of compression in this article. As a result of this development, companies may be at the control of everything. As is the case today, there is a realistic possibility that a single person can obtain all relevant employment permits, thus controlling all production of farm fish and fish farms on land and sea. When it appeared that the same thing was happening in the Faeroe Islands, our brothers responded by enforcing laws on fish farming that limit the possession of the legal entity to more than half of the published salmon - breeders. We're not alone. In Norway this issue is also discussed with regard to the setting of comparable regulations. I think it is important that we react to this trend and therefore have decided to submit a synoptic decree that the government here on the land's ship of a team of workers aimed at providing suggestions on how to limit the burden of the possession of a member of the salmon houses in Iceland and whether or not to limit the possession of foreign citizens in Iceland. I believe it is very important to examine the price of legislation to ensure that in Iceland salmon farms will not be owned by very few people. The diversity of the article must be ensured, along with local property. It is of enormous importance that in parallel with the construction of salmon farms in Iceland, employment and human life in the region will grow, along with growing salmon farms and prospering with the environment and the communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u28	Mr. President. If at some point it had not been clear what the use of poisonous manpower means, then the Ukraine invasion has fallen a bit to describe it. Women, children, old people, disabled people are the ones who lie in their seats while we listen to and see in the media, both here and abroad, a discussion of couples with what is to be done on chat machines as well as with what might be used. But the victims are, I think, no matter what name the bomb is when it falls. If there is something that events of the last days will show us, how precious the peace is for our whole life; for everyday life, business, culture, sports. It is natural to be overwhelmed by feelings of inadequacy and helplessness. We should be aware of our good fortune to grow up and live here in a peaceful land. Our discouragement and lack of help will enhance our responsibility. In VG, it has been our belief that increasing military armor and military alliances are not the best way to ensure world peace. Peaceism is the most important thing to be assured of international relations. Nothing is as damaging to people's environment, welfare, and health as war. We in Iceland are in many ways privileged in the international community, and we must do what we can to share our wealth with those most needed. Iceland is to take responsibility and bring people into need, not only by welcoming them away but also by supporting them in being able to live with dignity in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u29	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has been talking about the quality of home living, but when you look at it, it is not based on the fact that home debt to the banks is being reduced as should be the norm but that housing prices are increasing so that the proportion to the uplifted housing prices has, in fact, fallen without any financial commitments made in reality. This is a situation that will eventually lead us into a dilemma, for it will not go on indefinitely. Divorce has not become severe, says secretary of finance, as though it was evidence that some families do not fight on the banks. The failure of the mortgages is the last signs to show of difficult housing, since mortgages are what they last stop paying. The only solution that has been made to cover the elevations of loans and/or decrease the income by Covid is to use its special savings to cover debt and reduce the payload. Seeing this is the way a solution shows better than most other factors as to how crooked the system is. This brings a specialised person who will lose his or her life over the years directly in the pockets of banks and make it a means of transportation. That is an amazing short - range thought that many have yet been forced to take advantage of. This solution shows better than most else that this system does not exist and must soon fall. In addition, it is worth remembering that in other civilized lands, people can do both, pay from their housing, and gather for their upper years. The government needs to wake up and realize that homes must be protected from the effects of inflation, and this is best done by putting roofs on household expenses. A big step toward taking the staff out of the index, but the simple operation would reduce the inflation by an entire two-point level that would have a chain effect in reducing the basket, loans to homes and companies, rent and interest. The government has to stop hiding reality behind averages when the reality of tens of thousands is that income does not cover expenses at all. They don't live on the income of those who pick up the average numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u30	President. Early this morning, the Ukraine ambassador, Olga Dibrova, had an informal meeting with the Council of Foreign Affairs. The meeting was good, but it was hard. The ambassador's account was strong by the way Ukraine's greatest attack today, and it was strong because of its unbelievable solidarity. In fact, I think this situation will no less produce a stronger solidarity in Europe than ever before. There is a new and deeper understanding of the importance of European cooperation on security. This is evident by the European Union, the reaction of Germany, Sweden, and other countries because there is a real danger that Ukraine is the threshold for Russia today. The pregnancy of the attacks is growing every day. The casualties are intense, and the attacks are being directed against ordinary people. Schools have been attacked, historical and culturally important buildings are under attack. I am glad that at the General Assembly, the U.S.R.S.R.R.R., the Commonwealth Convention is large, and the situation is large from the Icelandic government, but these explicit statements need to be followed by clear action. I'm happy with the way the government's reaction in the beginning now and I want to be here right now after this meeting the clear government to use its voice and to continue to show this position in action. It was important that the Russians were expelled from the Council of Europe during this time, and this could be followed by sending home the Russian ambassador and thus sending out a clear message. We are to do our part through humanitarian work, with increased financial support, and with the help of people who now flee the war. The attack is out of the air, from land to sea, and the answers need to be on all sides also on the side of governments, commerce, finance, sports, and culture. [[The president calls.]] President. I'm probing the government that the Council will continue to be informed. The General Assembly is and must be the sponsor of the government in these historic times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u31	A respectable president. I agree wholeheartedly with the members of the council who have spoken here about solidarity and a clear message for the Ukrainian nation. A respectable president. There is also a problem here regarding land transport, sea and air that has cut off the last days because of the weather. Roads through the Hellish River and the Thunder have been shut down for weeks, and General's sails have fallen where water cannot be moved to sea or in the air. It is of utmost importance because of services, employment, and health care that we members of the Southern District talk to the Vega program about how we can better guarantee transportation even when we are the worst, as we have the past few days. I know we can't control nature, but it's very important for us to increase the number of days the nations or the Times are open. Because this job life is not only in the South, it is also in the Western Islands where daily trips need to be used for employment and services that need to get goods and services to land. I also, a respectable president, would like to mention the impaired service that has been accomplished by shutting down posts on Hvolsfield and Hellu. The government pays considerably with this service, and it is serious when such a service is impaired by moving it all to Selephos. I understand that this service is also a great responsibility for the government, for the work in the country's territory, for the service of the people there. I encourage all of us to care for the service of the country, not just the health care but the necessary service that the mail provides.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u32	Mr. President. No doubt, a person does too little to commend political opposers, but a minister of wood responded in this way to a discussion at the World Council yesterday on flying issues, that there is nothing more to commend him for. Yesterday, I asked a minister how he envisioned the development of domestic flights, so there would be a situation where the sectoral field of the Hydromosis was significantly impaired as a result of new development disappearing at the airport. I asked that in view of the constant pressure to the airport and thus reduce his safety. The assessment of the Dutch Air and Space Transport Agency, which Istavia was given to assess the potential effect of a planned decision based on a cut off on the airport safety at Reykjavík's airport, suggests that based on the current decision at the Sculversary, it may have considerable negative effects on the management of the airport. The structure in the language area has already had a negative effect on tribulations. A policy towards the airport is immediately effective and the rise of the population, but the anticipated solution to the forest is a forested bird after 15 to 20 years, and that is, if all goes on, as in history, unlikely as it is now. Yesterday, the secretary of the wood, and thereby the secretary of the planning, for that matter, by permission of the president, made clear that in this agreement the city of Reykjavík should maintain the safety of the current airport. If this is disturbed by the cutting thought, i.e. The flight security, they just have to stop, wait. Unless there are some objections, there is no doubt about it. At best, counter measures would be to reduce construction levels and to reduce the proposed areas in the cutoff area today or, as per the Dutch assessment, to carry out medium measures that would never include anything other than the limited use of the airport. It is obvious, then, that there is no choice for an inside minister than to step into the matter and delay development in the area, as he has become the minister of the organizational affairs, airport affairs, settlements, and, in fact, all the more important matters of the airfield in the Hydromal. I'm the highest. A minister to the importance of these matters, but time is limited to cope. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u33	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill for a new law on rental driving for the third time, but the bill was submitted to the 150th as well as 151th legislation and is now submitted for the third time in almost unchanged form. Minor adjustments have been made in the few aspects of the bill since the last donation, as detailed in the report that follows the bill. The overall review of a taxi vehicle law began at the time by order of a team of workers to review the rules of rental driving in Iceland in October 2017. The staff returned their motions in a report to the Ministry in March 2018. The report concluded that the change in Icelandic law on rental vehicles was inevitable, including the U.S.A. because existing laws are probably not compatible with the EU Convention's regulations, or the evaluation was, as it were. The bill is based on key elements for the proposals included in the workgroup report. In addition, the Ministry has considered the comments received through the Ministry on the topic of the report and the early bill stones and the development of legislators in the local language of Iceland. The development of the bill is due to the fact that in January 2017, the EFTA DG initiative analysis of Iceland's rental market and potential barriers began access to it. Contact with ESAs was recommended that the Agency considered it a possibility that Icelandic legislation on rental vehicles will include measures that do not match the international commitments of the Icelandic state. The Agency had already made comments on how to compromise the tenet market in Norway, a country with a number of relevant legislation similar to the Icelandic market. ESA concluded that the Norwegian state would violate its duties in accordance with Article 31. The EEA Convention, on the basis of the establishment rights of EU citizens to initiate and pursue independent employment and to establish and run enterprises with conditions that apply to the national law for the citizens of the state of which the establishment is taking place. Last November, i.e. 2021, the government presented the logical opinion of the ESA, which concludes that the Icelandic government violates its obligations under the EEA Convention, but a logical opinion leads to a court of justice for the EFTA Court. Therefore, it is likely that there will be no changes to the regularity of the problem facing all the rental vehicles in this country will have to answer for the EFTA Court. The bill presented here is the product of the work of the aforementioned Department of Transport and Regional Government and Association and consultation with stakeholders and the general public. Before the bill was submitted to the 150th legislation, a wide open consultation was made with the public as well as to stakeholders, and following the discussion, considerable changes were made on the bill in accordance with information tips. During the treatment of the bill at the 150th and 151th leg of the legislation, a wide-scale consultation was made with the OPC. The Ministry has reviewed the terms and material changes made in a few of the bill's terms in line with the indications given to the committee and presented in the report, as mentioned earlier. The aim of the bill I recommend here is primarily to ensure a good access to a more efficient, efficient and safe vehicle service for the public in Iceland. Then the bill is designed to convey laws and rules on rent cars to modern prospects, where safe and secure transportation is guided, as well as to ensure that the Icelandic government will fulfill its national commitments. If the bill is legal, they'll increase job opportunities for diverse groups. Abolition of minimum license policies is thus meant to give the gender equal bioavailability in the class. Today, men are far more populous than women, but in general women are considered more likely to be part - time workers than men. There is also a violation of the rules for the applicant's permission to work for a certain number of days in order to have the opportunity to have published permission to grant those who have no personal contact with the class, it would be more possible for others to be given a leave of work. The consumers have called for the introduction of passengers to the services of their country in addition to the services of traditional rental vehicles. However, the bill makes no distinction between passengers and traditional rental stations. Thus, passengers will have to meet the same conditions as traditional rental stations to obtain their license. It thus ensures that the views of equally competitive conditions are expected to include drivers working for so - called farots who use smartness through the ministry, they must meet all conditions as those who intend to serve as taxi drivers in the standard sense. Mr. President. Now I'm going to explain to you some of the major newcomers and changes that are involved in this bill. The bill expects three types of traffic to be allowed. First, there is a work permit that gives humans the right to work as a taxi driver. Then the bill assumes a license that allows men to run one cab, as well as work as a taxi driver, and finally it's a license for rental DMV. As for the work permit under the bill, it gives you the right to drive a cab without driving your own cab. It is not allowed to depend on minimal use requirements and therefore gives the right to drive a cab, whether it is the main job, the part - time job or the leftover. The bill's license gives you the right to work as a taxi driver and to run your own cab. In this way, the Marketing Authorisation Holder does not require additional work permit. Necessary legislation is not as much as a work permit on the conditions of minimal use. There are significant changes in legal requirements for rental stations and their licenses. Thus, in the bill it is not specifically assumed that taxi drivers are obliged to pay off a rental vehicle station, but according to current law, such obligation is to have a restricted area. Nevertheless, the law on licenses is set up, and it must continue to be granted payment for a rental vehicle station. Several cab drivers have called for halting duties that take all cab drivers on trial. I want to use this opportunity here to encourage you. The Environment and Transport Committee to consider possible implementations of such obligations if this can result in further reconciliation with the bill. The number of budget limits for driving vehicles is expected to be removed and therefore the restricted area will be history. They are the capital area, Southnes, the Aarborg region, and Akureyri. Other areas have no limits. Sources for monitoring the operation are explained and increased from the current law. It is thus assumed that the Agency will be allowed to demand the information from a permit holders and others who may be able to supply a taxi service required for monitoring. The Agency's sources of disembarking are also made clearer and more effective than has been. Changes are made in the conditions candidates need to meet in order to be allowed to drive a cab, including make the candidate's record clear. So there will continue to be rich demands for those who intend to do this vital work, and in some respects there will be more demands on them than according to local laws. Mr. President. Now I've been reviewing the key indicators of the bill. There is no time here to report all the changes included in the bill, but it is detailed in the general report that follows the bill. It is important that we successfully revise the law and order of a taxi vehicle. It is a code of laws involved in providing a service that plays an important role in the transport system. With this bill's approval, Icelandic legislation on rent cars in my opinion fulfills the national rights of the state and contributes to the safety of passengers as well as bus drivers. Then the bill contributes to healthy competition and innovation in the article and makes conditions better for the supply of services to respond to demand. In other words, the initial goals of the work group that were set up by this bill are achieved. Finally, Mr. President, after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to ask about something that's a problem in the existing law and could become a problem if the law becomes as suggested in the bill, and that's a cab driver's position as employees, as employees. Today it is such as Drivers who relieve drivers who are stopped by the Marketing Authorisation Holder should, in fact, meet all the conditions of being simply remuneration in that relationship, but are not, and are involved, thus not enjoying the rights of being in the recruitment relationship. This is naturally what people are worried about about about about the farts. It has often been pointed out that it weighed on one side and on the convenience and availability and practicality for consumers and that there is a risk of social subspecies and that the driver is like a machine, but is hardly in on or off. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this being handled properly on the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u35	Mr. President. I want to thank you. The senator of this inquiry. As he went over in his own business, it is really a contractor's case today, that is the most common form. Of course, it is all about independent employment, making it more uniform and securing competition, innovation, equality. One of the equalities guaranteed is that the requirements for the so - called epidemics are exactly the same as they are made for the traditional hire of a taxi vehicle. So I believe that the senator's concern is in that respect unnecessary. If I recall so correctly, the European Court's judgment against the European Court fell a few years ago that epidemics were not part of any shared economy, some voodoo pay system, but were really a moving company and therefore needed to meet these requirements. In our queries and conversations with the IRS, people have not been concerned about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u36	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. This is something that we need to consider on a transport and environment committee, how we can weigh these differing interests so that the costs of consumers at the expense of those doing the work are not improving. There's a balance to be there. It is widely cited as an example in the Norwegian law, and it has been noted that it provides permission for a minister to set the rules for an environmental taxi car's environment, as the cars meet certain environmental conditions. These are natural devices that are used considerably more than the average car, so there must be a lot of work to do. I'd like to ask if this was checked at the Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u37	A respectable president. As for what we were discussing in the previous answer, this bill is certainly not about employment protection, but I encourage the committee to examine it in detail, even though I have claimed that there was a perfect equality between different shapes of business. Of course, regarding the important energy exchange and climate targets, we have considered a significant point, it would be possible to think that no license would be issued unless the person had a new energy car. But we thought it would be a whole lot of luck to do that as soon as we're changing systems and projecting it with the bill that today we've got the urge to help people buy new energy cars, not conventional diesel or fuel cars, as well as the other tax changes we have in the system, drains on the sink, and stuff like that. So we invite people to consider it. It may also be thought that a certain number of exposed people would be dependent on this, and the committee can, of course, insert it if she feels that it would be settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. In the beginning, he correctly noted that this was the third time this bill was delivered and virtually unchanged. Then I remind you that the number of professional comments came at the earlier stage. Why were some of those comments not viewed? I understand they have not been taken into account in this work, and now they are at the highest level. Minister to encourage the committee to examine the issue. I'm happy, as it is, for me, that I don't really think it's a special technique not to have looked into it. But I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, because it is now so that in Denmark there was an EES-Second accessation protocol to maintain the issue and allow the number will remain limited by step-separated distribution allowing: Was it not to be considered to go the same way as Danir when they received this leaveover at their time?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u39	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that when I mention that the bill is submitted for the third time, it's only right to know that we've been through a global epidemic, and the person standing here has given no emphasis on finishing this case because of the disasters that have been happening. in the transport field and, among them, in recent years, from rental drivers. However, we cannot avoid answering that call that we have known was imminent and that includes. That's how you feel about it. We've made some changes because of these comments, including Since personal protection and the Neighbour Office are subject to consumers, they have been heard and are clearly reported in the report. I've said that here I encourage the committee to look at it. There are different countries in the North, but there is an exception everywhere. We have a special restricted license in this bill, so it's not forbidden, it's allowed. If they're willing to do that, I encourage the committee to consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary's answer and will here, in the second answer, appear in a review of Iceland's Common Community, which suggests that the objectives established by the Agency at the Norwegian government in this topic can be met with a much less extensive change than proposed in this existing bill. This may include strengthening the preconceived number of employers, making open application procedures, taking into account other factors, and preventing potential indiscriminate discrimination. I'd like to have the highest response. A minister of this, as well as a response to the review of the Frag, a friend of the bus driver's car, which says that business views are the only factor in this bill. There is no question about the terms and means of the ones employed in this article and how the legislation would lead to an incessant change, resolution, and lack of experience in the class. [[The president calls.]] Labour protection issues are out of the way. If the highest. A minister wanted to respond to these comments that have been received.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u41	A respectable president. It's a lot of things that can't be answered in a minute, but I'm gonna try. I'd like to explain more fully what options we are facing. The main challenge is to eliminate the number limits and they are here in these zones we know. You might think of setting a number of limits to ensure minimum number in areas outside the current limitation area to ensure service. Actually, that's what Dan's been doing. We called out whether individual communities, part of the country, or so would be interested. There were no such reviews, and we have specifically asked for them. This is one of the things the committee needs to consider. Then I want to reiterate what I said before about my duty. We're both on the bill of the Protocol and on the warrant, and I encourage the committee to check if there's a right to stop and how it would be implemented without breaking the creation agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. - Strategicly, the secretary of transportation. I was surprised to learn that the matter was now laid forth about unchanged from what was done in the first two years and especially in the light of the comments and comments that have been received. And although there may be a problem in the environment of a pandemic, there was a tremendous debate in connection with the first two contributions of this case so that it would have been a huge improvement, the Ministry would have taken the ball to its attention, in a clearer way, many of the comments made. But what I want to ask the highest. A minister to see whether he could explain that in the report on the development of a regular work in other countries, there is no discussion of recent developments in Norway and, in fact, nothing about the development of events under 2.4, the development of a regular work in other countries, since there is a turning point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u43	A respectable president. We've been trying to take into account certain factors, and we may have just not been able to get this great debate here at the council because of the community's situation because of the global epidemic Covid and no special pressure to finish the case when we get peace from what we're not going to get now. Now we have to answer that here, the council, how we're going to change this. That's what other northern nations have been doing. Some have gone very far, much more than is done here. In this bill, work is handled with great caution, and the requirements set by ESA are minimally met but listened carefully to views including the ESA. A cab driver, but, of course, also consumers who call for a chance of innovation and more competitive competition. So my opinion is that we're trying to compromise. Regarding why the latest changes from Norway are not mentioned, they have focused mainly on their plans to change. The information we have about what they're going to change but they haven't been through yet is the changes that are already in this bill, i.e. setting stricter rules about the conditions around the business, tax divorce and accounting and label, and something like that - all that we already have in the bill here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It's the highest measure. A minister who has succeeded in meeting the views of those on this market working today? In many cases, the viewpoint of those working in each sector is greatly weighted with the review, and it is likely to try to look to the best - known viewpoints and to have experience in working on the market. But based on the comments received by the previous contributions from the sector and then the fact that the matter is presented for the third time, I would like to reiterate my question whether the Minister feels that it has been successful to consider the views of those working in the sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u45	Mr. President. Of course, it is always difficult to appreciate. So you have to ask everyone and let everyone know what position they're talking about. Of course, no one who lives in a system he's comfortable with and guarantees that more rights are changed, and I have a complete understanding of that. I think that this group of work we listened to, which represented those who work in this article today, had a lot to do with the outcome, and hence the changes do not go as far as to form in Finland or Sweden and even in large amounts in Denmark, in part, and perhaps even less than in Norway, in certain respects. But then in other respects, I think we can say that. And the communication and conversation I've had with the individual authorities have given a little consideration to the fact that if we were to make up this discussion about the issue of haltes, and we have the authority and the law on the cab station in the bill, if the committee were to look at it with the issue and implementation of it, it was to this party's assessment that it would be settled within the article. But I'm convinced that not everyone is ready to write up on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for clear history, though the third time. In the words of the Minister, I would say that it would have been a matter of concern to look at this matter with the eyes of clear environmental motivations for speedy energy exchanges and if I understood the top. A minister rightly urged us on the committee to consider this matter specifically. The highest. Secretary will explain it a little, i.e. which discussion has taken place and which direction other than, for example, is to be discussed. that the version of a particular number of people allows meets this specific requirement? I think that even. The demand for transportation is the same study, being able to share vehicles with them whether in the form of taxis or in the service that has been mentioned, such as Uber.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u47	Mr. President. During the preparation of the bill, representatives from the Council of climate were arranged to discuss the potential incentive for environmental driving. It came, for example. the idea of accepting a particular number allowing eco-friendly cars. It was our assessment that such solutions do not necessarily fit us, since the allowed number is unlimited. It's the ideologies behind the bill, that's what's being taken away. However, it has been noted that solutions may be obtained through a strategy of other schemes, such as the tax rates at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the financial system, which could then be consumers of the Ministry of Business. It would also be possible to limit publishing, although it may be possible to include an eco-friendly vehicle with special laws in its laws. But as I mentioned, it would be quite successful when we are making the changes, even if it was considered to be part of the committee and into the future. [[The president calls.]] Above all, the Ministry is ready to inform all of the work that has taken place with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It's good to hear that we're working on big cases like these, we're wearing the climate glasses in that context, and I'm looking forward to dealing with that on the Committee and in conversation and cooperation with the Ministry. There's something else I wanted to ask the highest. Minister for. We have also heard in this discussion that there are certain safety and qualifications for those who do this service, including those who do so. with respect to sensitive populations. Now we know that much of the more vulnerable groups in the community use this service, and we would like them to have that privilege. Is it a point that the minister believes that the situation is properly handled or that he might sharpen in some specific way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u49	A respectable president. It has to be said that, as it is, the conditions for granting the act of violations are far clearer than those of the current law. An open law suggests that the applicant has not been sentenced to punishment, however the bill assumes that the individual has not been guilty of criminal conduct, which, of course, goes a good way beyond being judged. Thus, the local law suggests that the applicant may not have been sentenced to penalties, but the bill assumes that the applicant is not to be guilty of certain penalties, not to have been sentenced to prison punishment, in order to have an effect on his or her application. However, it is not expected that all fractures will affect applications, and it is also suggested that a minister be excluded from certain violations so that they do not affect reputations. This is suggested as not everyone's wrongdoing may affect their ability to perform the job. However, because of the nature of the work, it is certain that acts of violence and sexual abuse can have a special effect. Cabby drivers often drive delicate groups, such as vagrants. A senator mentioned, and the people in a delicate state. [[The president calls.]] It is true to assume that the current law does not assume that the permit holder should meet all conditions for permission, however, the bill assumes it. [[The president calls.]] So the bill actually goes beyond the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u50	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Industrial minister for cab cars driving. Like the last time I stepped up here for the same occasion, I'd like to express my joy that this case is on schedule and wish for the highest order. Minister to congratulate you on bringing this through the government, through the members of the Government. A long - term reformation of rental legislation is now timely, and we can see this especially in the fact that the matter is rooted in the comments of the EFTA, ESA, which opened the initiative search at a taxi market a few years ago, an examination of the legal limits and barriers that affect competition, and the destruction of consumers. It is good to use this opportunity regularly to remind us that consumers benefit from our presence in the European Economic Area. In 2018 and again during this council for freedom in a cab market, I made a pact proposal for Congress itself. Although that case has been successfully shot down by various members of the council here, even within the government, I am glad that much of what was found there is also in this bill. Minister. It is true that although these four years are a very long time, and we have been short from the EFTA Institute of Observation, the reality we have lived in during the last two years of a pandemic is playing. has come to the fore for a cab driver. In this regard, this is a natural matter, but at the same time, it is good to see it on a regular schedule. We're talking about public transportation, and it's important that we discuss this service as such. As with many things in the ideal system of public transport, there is room for reform. For taxis to be able to do their part in the important work, the service simply needs to be available and affordable. In my opinion, healthy competition is the key to achieving these goals, both focusing on the competition itself and the integrity of competition. We need to create such a situation. Legal lows are simply designed to raise prices to consumers. If the competition is active, if it works for us, it is easy to imagine that in the context of other social reforms being done in public transport, there will be a lot more options for putting our private car into practice, they choose, use cabs, buses, and other public transportation to do their work at lower costs and less stress on our system, so that the environment is not spoken of. That's right, the highest. A minister came in earlier, asked the exact question about the matter, that there are other natural catalysts also involved. I'd like to mention two important compensations that are found in the bill, and I'd especially like to celebrate. V.E.G. A minister certainly reviewed them too, but there are many of them, but there are others because there are considerable changes in this, as is often the case under consideration that have been long - standing. On the other hand, I would like to mention maximum limitation of the total number of job vacancies available for taxis. There is no evidence for the State to run foreboding in this service in excess of others. There is no need to worry that the market is not balanced, i.e. Between supply and demand, as in many others, there is a much more complex, delicate, and capitalizing markets. Of course, we need rules, such as those we have about other activities that we simply want to be professional, but as in other places, we can guarantee this professionalism without placing restrictions on free competition, such as those found in a cab market today. On the other hand, I would like to mention the legal refinement, which means that the rules of currency are finally rethinked. If this bill becomes legal, consumers will be able to negotiate prices in advance. They can ask: What is the cost of the trip from the mall to Grafarvog? - and get prices, even seen in a applet the way that will be driven and the ultimate cost for the present, to get in a car, to see the meter tick and not to know what the final number will be. It may only be that a consumer has a choice to choose a car with his present system or this innovation, about that, about, of yes, of business freedom, freedom of contract and consumer protection and freedom of consumers. Forced cabs to use currency as they have been simply inhibit the technological development of such as payment through the smartphone program. Of course, there is a key factor in opening an Icelandic market for services that many Icelanders know from good experience in foreign cities, and we know that already Icelanders live in the country ready to render such services to consumers here on land. Such service is based on the freedom of the contract and the benefits of using innovation. It is really impossible to talk about modern and future transportation without having these factors in mind. Madam President. Although I have been here to refer to consumer interests, I believe that the interests of a cab driver or driver must certainly not be taken lightly. It is also about the job freedoms of those who are interested in doing this work, and this requires that it not be their limited right to make a higher income with increased independence in their job, freedom to choose whether a driver is in charge of the station, or how he deserves his service. Similarly, it is important to reduce the public fees laid on this industry, since, like so many other factors, they have a role in maintaining the prices. For taxis to perform their important role in the public transport system, services need to be available and affordable. A healthy competition is the key to achieving these goals, and achieving these goals may more people choose to park their private car permanently, live under these circumstances, or significantly reduce their use, and provide circumstances for those who choose to travel in a private car. My interest in freedom, of seeing this bill become the law, of turning first, of seeing cabs in different forms become part of the solution that a good public transportation system can give us. We need a more varied supply and a more varied price to do so. We have already seen tremendous technical efficiency in this industry, and I am convinced that we have not provided for them. The last time we discussed this case, I said that since there was a bill through the Government Congress Party, it's likely to be loyalty. But since then, it's got the highest. A minister had to restore the bill twice again, and of course he plays in, like the highest. A minister came in earlier, and I mentioned, the situation, the consequences of a pandemic in the last two years. There is no denying that it has been a very harsh opposition to this matter by some members of the council, and it will be exciting to see the matter continue to work. Environmental and Transport Committee. I hope now that there is a real part of the council, a real will amongst members, for handling this matter and causing it to pass through. I listened attentively to a talk at the top. Ministers on the case and answers, and I believe the next one is certain to have met many of the comments made. Care is to be taken to ensure that they came from many places. There was also a great deal of weight among those who even wanted to go further into the direction of freedom, not just those who wanted to see this matter swept off the table. So, hopefully, with this issue, we have made a decision, so that we will achieve the aim of protecting consumers' interests, bringing a strong new, strong circle into development, improving the public transport system, and protecting employment rights in this article. I look forward to seeing this case work at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee, hoping to vote for it before long.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u51	A respectable president. I don't really know if I'm supposed to be frustrated or grateful that we're discussing this case for the third time, frustrated that we haven't done it long ago, but I also wondered: " Do we need a special law on cab cars? Is it something that is absolutely necessary, or were these laws set at a time when we were in a completely different environment? The reason I pondered this is that laws about passenger transport and freight transport from 2017 were the first bill I discussed after I arrived at the council. Then I sat on an Environmental and Transport Committee, and I wasn't going to believe how many people we needed or visitors at our meeting to review their comments. I thought I had some knowledge of this case group of people working long in the Bus Administration, thinking that passenger transport laws were, of course, a public transportation law -- let's see that public transportation is in my hands three or four times, in the law on passenger transport - but no. The reviews and discussions were all about the very specific features of those who are driving 9 passengers, 11 passengers, 15 passengers, or what they are now driving. I felt that there was an extreme misunderstanding and intended to remind me that the laws in force were designed to simplify the then - existing rule section. In fact, there was a lot of induction from the European Union and was being assured of a competitive and simple rule. I think, to some extent, they're just fine. A few years later, I was invited to visit a company located in Hafnarfjörður, a luxury traveling office. I met the company's manager who was only going with me over what it's like to run travel services in Iceland, a travel service that in English would be called a really high entourage, who performs the most basic services for tourists. The manager said, "Hey, there's no problem. There's a lot of opportunities to travel in Iceland for these richest people who want to come to the country and experience and enjoy and will leave behind a huge amount of currency. However, to run this kind of tourism, I was forced to buy a passenger transport company, i.e. To go and fetch these tourists at Leifs Station and drive them through the country. First, the company hit a wall after a wall. It was a question of how the car was, how many passengers were registered for, and so many passengers were going to move, because often and often, they were taking larger cars that were originally registered for seven or nine passengers, but they had to change their cars so that some charismatics from Saudi Arabia, or what I know where they came from, could sit in their armchairs and drink their champagne while they were running around the country. Then she said, "No, it doesn't work, you have to have a class in the back, and you need to fill out this form, and you need to apply for this license, and you're gonna need this type of car. I realized that we had somehow made a great jungle around what is essentially not too complicated, i.e. moving passengers. With this I may try to explain my irritability, and I hope to the highest. Ministers don't freak out. I support this case because it's a way of reducing only the jungle we're in. But I'm saying maybe I'd like us to have just one simple law on passenger transport and what has so far been called a cab drive, but is, of course, according to modern technology and innovation in service to be led into all kinds of solutions. That there are only clear and simple laws about it; you apply for one, at most two leave, and this doesn't have to be so complicated or matter to everything how many passengers you are driving, whether you drive them out of the capital area or just inside, etc. This would be my dream position, but your dreams may not always be realized in this hall, and you often have to accept all kinds of compromises. I think the bill we're looking at here is quite a compromise between differences of viewpoints on how far we have to go in demand of those who make their jobs drive people. I just really hope that. The environment and transport committee are now able to resolve this issue. I think it's absolutely key that we finish it and, at the same time, we achieve the goals here. At the same time, I want it to be perfectly clear that the senator here would want to go even further. But in view of the importance of breaking up the system we are today because it is not fully in harmony with laws in the European Economic Areas - apart from that, we realized only when the law is read as such that it is old - fashioned and created in a completely different environment than we live today. I'm sure it's important to make demands for those in this field, but we don't have to overdo it, and we're here to promote competition and innovation in this market. That's what I wish to say. The Environment and Transport Committee is doing well and again that we need to get this work done. We can't be here after Congress with a bill from the highest level. Minister to try to reform this law column. We need to finish it. So, of course, the next question is, Is there ever a reason to combine all of this into a single code that might be simpler?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It should be noted that there will never be especially good evidence to back up a case when offered often, on the contrary. I've got a quick question for you. Hv. A senator had strong opinions about the matter and felt that there was a reason for simplicity in the overall process of mobilization. But I would like to ask. A member of the council is to see if any of the defences have been dealt with on the basis of their release from the Party of Independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u53	A respectable president. I began to think that now I need to get ready, that seems to be a popular question by then. A senator who was in charge. I don't remember that, no. However, it may be that individual senators have made some prior notice, but as I have said in the past, there is a clear desire for the matter to be treated by Congress. You're absolutely right. A senator may not necessarily argue that they have been submitted often, but to me it is so that this matter needs to be settled. I don't know if any individual senators have had any warning and might want to see changes in the affairs of the council, but as I said before, I think that all views are present after this careful work on the part of the council in recent years, as well as on the side of the Supreme Court. Minister and Ministry itself with this team of fellow workers. I think there's a whole point of view here, and now we have to make a decision and settle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u54	Madam President. I want to start by saying it and saying it with the highest power. Ministers that it is very important to achieve a successful review of these laws. I feel a little paradox about not taking into account the comments received at the early stage of this case because this bill is being submitted for the third time and, as noted, in almost unchanged form. But I especially welcome the highest words. A minister to emphasize that the committees consider the issue because I know it is very important to those who work in this article. So I would like to strongly encourage the committee to realize that the obligation to stop is being held, and there are examples from that in the states of the North, as I mentioned here. I now believe, Madam President, that the regulations that have been taken in this country at the disposal of jobs when it comes to making rent cars have brought good results. If I cross this limited rights, I feel that this method is reasonable because those who really want to do this job can easily start driving, such as if it's a failure. And the best - working people get permission until those who only want to do this part - time work. Another factor to consider regarding the arrangement we have here today is how easy it is to filter out those who have no business to do this work, and this is important. In my conversations with the executives of the Corporation, it was made clear that many people have been stopped on their road to obtain permission. It has been found that there is no benefit to anyone, not the person, not the profession, and not the customers at all. We must respect this arrangement, and we must worry that anyone can get permission without being careful whether the person is really qualified for it. So the reason to limit the number of jobs remains appropriate for my judgment, and comparable methods are used in other areas to ensure the benefit of those working in a particular industry. You can, for example, do so. They include agriculture and fishing roads. Anxiety and limitations have a purpose. So this is a tool that is necessary to ensure the foundation of a particular business. Without limits, I feel that it is very likely that the number of rental cars will double in a short period of time. In Iceland, we do not live, as we know, millions of people, and we do not have thousands of automobiles, such as in some major cities, and the market here is much more fragile than in the countries around us. But I'm sure it's a good idea to consider if we can increase the number of jobs and put down the maximum number of jobs. My sentence, however, is irresponsible. Swedes do not have good experience in letting everyone in the article. They removed restrictions on licenses several years ago, but the result was not good, consumers had to suffer for it, and there are cases of violence on the part of those who were driving cabs. Soon taxi drivers in Sweden began to have bad words, and tourists were even advised to avoid taking cabs. Finally, the government intervened. My message here is that we should look at the experiences of our neighbors in this regard. I was just reviewing the reviews that have been received and received in the early stages of the case, which I think should have been viewed when they made this decision right now. V.E.G. In fact, a minister admitted that some factors had been taken into account but not regarding restrictions. But as I mentioned earlier, there are recommendations from a minister that will be consulted on the committee, and that is a pleasure. If we look at a review received from the U.S. Corporate Corporate Association, we'll have an opinion that says, for example. that in Finland and Denmark there has been an experience with the regularity of driving a taxi, as they say. In Finland, the changes have led to a host of problems, such as the U.S. The changes are increased by 13% more than the price, and those who relied on the ministry have lost confidence in it. This is from Finland. Then, as I merely entered the counter, it is important to bear in mind that Denmark was given a separate set of EU rules to maintain a halt and that the number of people will remain limited by step-separated distribution allow. It doesn't have to look beyond Denmark to see that it has a gift. But there is no such law for going on that bill. Then the car driver's partner will stress strongly that a driver's car is required to have a clean record of criminal activity. It is also crucial that the demand for a taxi driver to understand Icelandic language and writing, I think that's just fine, and we're all supposed to stress it. The Society also notes that driving privileges will continue to be recorded in a database so that anyone who drives a cab will be able to show his license and prove that he has a share at any time. It is then interesting to note that the current law says that all the functions of the station are organized in consultation with cab drivers. The newly formed bill does not mention the unions of a taxi driver. If the checkout role is removed, it may be assumed that some will go off with a brilliant program to tempt the permit servers and promise them a job through unmanned network communication without taking any responsibility or taking into account the driver's dresser. Of course, that is most unfortunate. So they say here in their review, which I now feel is a little worried about, that business viewpoints are one of the factors in this bill and that there is nothing about the benefits and resources of the people working in this article. It is obvious that legislation would result in a failure of human exchange, inexhaustration, and inefficiency in the profession, and in the course of protection. Of course, this is a concern that must be considered carefully on the committee and be answered. In addition, the National Association of Iceland noted that the objectives of EFTA have been met by the Norwegian government with significantly less changes than those proposed in the existing bill. It could, for example. This includes strengthening the basis for a predetermined number of employers, making the application procedure more open, taking into account more factors, and preventing the possibility and indiscriminate discrimination. Of course, it is worth considering if these changes could have been attacked with much less effort than this bill does. I also find it interesting, as shown in this review, that in a paper with the bill that the law has been changed to Norway following EFTA comment. The report says about changes to Norwegian legislation: ▪ The new program includes canceling the number limits without allowing the number of applications to be restricted in rural areas where oers do not respond to demand. This means that the changes involved an suspension obligation to pay off a rental car station. According to the New World Translation of the 30th October, this description of the Norwegian legislation is at best misleading. There are no restrictions for Oslo, where there are over a million people. In contrast, there are substantial limitations in the Netherlands where 500,000 people live. Here we see that there are a limit to the number of jobs in Norway, where there are 550,000 people and everything in Iceland, as we know, is more than 3 60,000. I find this very interesting, and I think the committee should take a careful look at this when she is overcrowding professional restrictions. At the end of the Alliance's narrative of an Icelandic taxi driver, only passengers are discussed. It says: The current telecommunication network is open to the activities of so-called κfarves, and in the report with the bill, no one is exposed to the disastrous consequences they have had everywhere, since more and more cities have banned their activities. In the United States, there has been an increase in the number of dishonest competition, traffic, and accident rates, violence as well as the use of black industry, and the use of the common trajectories that [ go] in conflict with the direction of the Icelandic transport. This review highlights a number of interesting things, and I encourage members of the council to study it. It says at the end: Since modern society is less vulnerable to change, millions of countries of the northern countries are more vulnerable. It is important to consider the changes that have been made in the other North countries - and I take my heart under it - and learn from their experience. Changes in the handling of a taxi vehicle must be done in steps and carefully; on the other hand, the survival of an entire profession - that is about 600 families, I think, who have their livelihood in this business, as well as about employment rights and property rights -- and the interests of consumers of good, safe, and efficient services at a global benefit, year - round. So, finally, it says in the custody of the Union of the Icelandic ten-per-carver and the Head of the DMV: In view of the mismanagement of the regularity of rent driving in the other northern countries, the Union of the U.S. motor vehicle driver and the Auto-President Guild Go absolutely against the bill. Madam President. I just want to encourage the committee to review the reviews that have been received and to review what has been presented in this discussion that it is very important to achieve a thorough review of these laws and to take into account those who are working in this article and have contributed to the best way in which these topics are handled. I hope to look to the stories and comments received from these sources that are best known in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his input, and I'm going to raise a question to him. I have spent most of my time representing a cab driver and an improved position for them, especially at the time of the ritual courting; helping with that in the middle city, the city's mayor, to develop meanings and additional efficiency in getting a car and making it their way. Everything went well along, so I have been the ones who have been most supportive of these fine men. Now it is true that in the past year, I have twice if not three times in a strange experience that I do not remember from the past. It follows, in the middle of the city being in bad weather late at night, even at 2:00 or something, ordering a taxi from the neighborhood and getting a message that after 20 minutes the car would be here, wait out, maybe for 25 or 30 minutes, but no one would come in. Then you call back, and you wait a long time. The answer is only after a deep CD, as they say. Then the answer is: You just have to get up on Höffisgat or down to Savile Square, for there are the cars. In some respects: The order has been ignored. I'm asking why. Senator: Is this not a relapse in the service of those who should really be doing better and more efficient service? Could we somehow get back to the good place to be able to order a car and get it instead of having to take a rainy day home and get wet by the way, and have to take our clothes to clean up after the weekend, which is related to the cost, and this causes discomfort?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm sorry to hear that after trying to order a cab - a few times - he had a funeral. [[A couple of times.]] I suppose that's what. A senator is referring there to a time of stress known already to order himself a taxi that is likely to be on weekends and after midnight. I think cab drivers were open to study increasing the number of jobs. I think this can be done in a good way with the class, since, of course, the class, and those who work in this article, wants the service to be the best. In those cases where there is a lack of severity. One member is describing special matters, just because no one has been available to care for the ministry. There are ways to fix it during periods of stress without enforcing the system. It's my input into this description of the dog. Senator. The job areas were changed a few years ago to prevent the lack of rent cars at a particular period of stress, and in my opinion, there are ways to solve this problem without surrounding the system. I am accompanied by a state of good fortune in these matters. Of course, those employed in this article need to be protected if they are to survive the entrance in which I understand that nothing is too great, especially because of various relics. It is necessary for my judgment to reduce such fees that would pay the price to be reduced. Many have complained that taking a taxi in Iceland is relatively expensive, and there are ways to correct it, e.g. to reduce rent-refrigered expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. For those of us who have come to know the passengers in neighboring countries and who sense their efficiency and speed of payment, and even the cost of road reductions, this, of course, is a real competitive threat to the already existing ones. I understand very well that a taxi driver's union does not care for such competition. But there are ways for the good that are on a surface, and for the worse. A senator obviously supports this and no doubt more, means for active men and women, to simply improve his service and practice, provide you with a solid apps where you can see where the car is and when it is expected and can be sure that he is expecting it; that you are not offered repeatedly to order a car and then wait 20 minutes and then another 20 minutes after the car is not coming. It's like a deliberate self-inflicted injury, and it's not an exception to a good rule. I experienced it a few times. I'm very sorry, I'm sorry, to stand here and tell a different story, but only good about my experience with Icelandic cabs. I met a tourist last year whose leg was broken, waiting in Reykjavík, an airport for a taxi that was due to be long ago, but then he was only accidentally at another airport. Part of this pull we need to prevent. We need to improve the entire environment, primarily for the consumers of this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator who, of course, agrees with him that there are many ways to improve the ministry, including some of them. A senator rightly mentioned, i.e. that you have a program on the phone that can tell you where the cab is, etc. For specialised travel e.g. between Cheflavík and Reykjavík, you can see where the passenger van is located each time, and it's very convenient when people are waiting for it. I agree with that. There are ways to improve these things, and I think taxi drivers and their companies are very eager to do so. But because of him. The senator mentioned these passengers when it comes to introducing them, we are faced with a different situation. What, then, will happen to the halting and collection of data and so on? There's a risk of a black job there, etc. ... andtheprecipitation really leaves the country. There are some things that need to be considered. Of course, we would also like to serve well those who attend much of this service, as it were. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson mentioned in his talk. There is a certain group of people, older people, disabled ones, who make great use of this service. If so, how important it is that a driver of the road have a clean record of good conduct, a service attitude, such as Icelandic, etc. There are various ways to improve this service, I agree with it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u59	Madam President. Here, the government is again attempting to destroy an Icelandic cab driver. As with many cases in which a service to EU rules is presented, there is a high degree of persistence in this matter, without necessarily any rules being carried out or, as in this case, without being made enough to adapt the bill to the Icelandic situation as an opportunity exists or to reject it. Cabby drivers have played a vital role in society, especially for people who for some reason find it difficult to get their way or who choose not to have a car. For decades, they have won trust in the Icelandic public. You hear a lot of stories about how older citizens rely on the services of a cabby who even knows the person or who has been exposed to him because of the use of the ministry. People experience security by calling an Icelandic cab driver, and in many ways they have done well, as I mentioned. Here, as in so many areas, there are being introduced to some form of extremeism, i.e. This new stupid hospital, which usually goes out of the way to weaken the position of the less involved and strengthen the position of the larger ones, especially some international giants. The position of enterprises in the various areas, my enterprise, I'm not talking about monologue, has grown progressively in recent years at the expense of foreign giants, and here is a bill that is directly aimed at doing this to an entire Icelandic profession, cab drivers. It's not like cab drivers lived in style. They have to work hard to earn enough money for themselves and their families and now plan to compete with a giant company that can achieve a much more economic advantage than the dictators, is, as shown in several comments on the case, in effect, in order to destroy this industry, to no longer be able to have a full-time job and long-time taxi manager in Iceland. We will no longer have this experienced and stable taxi driver who has made a good statement here. This will also mean that consumers will enjoy less security. It has to be said exactly as it is, and many reports from abroad are cited in the comments that have been received because of this bill showing this trend. Of course, that alone should be our concern. Cabby drivers, such as many other classes, have just been through a difficult time, this Covid epidemic, and in fact, it has been noted earlier in the discussion that this case may have been partly delayed. But as soon as they get out of there as they see a better time, and that, hopefully, they can earn up, pay off debts they may have added in the past two years, this is raised again, and without taking into account a number of the important and serious comments that have been made on the bill. V.E.G. So a minister introduces the bill here in such a way that he hopes that the committee will correct it. Despite all these efforts at the Ministry, the case is not yet ready. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said that much careful work had taken place at the council and on the part of the minister and the Ministry, which, in fact, is the opposite of what the minister said, may not have taken up enough discussion about this matter by Covid, and so it would have been waiting. Let us now take this discussion here at the Assembly Hall and at the committee. I hope that the discussion will lead to the discovery that the case is no better than to send it back simply to the Ministry and do yet another experiment there, or preferably just leave it alone and continue to have laws that take into account Icelandic circumstances, unless the committee acts and performs very significant adjustments on the bill because it does not produce any of it. It has been given that the committee not only has the authority to do so but it is encouraged to do so, and hopefully it will come to pass. Otherwise, we'll regret having handled this case in this way and put a whole profession down and put it into a system where, as it turned out, one night. A senator, is able to negotiate the prices of each individual to lead them in the expected direction of the cabbolas. Those who prepare others to do this, and much of the profits they make are going abroad, to foreign corporations. This is not an exhilarating and important development, and in fact the need for the council to intervene and protect an Icelandic cab driver.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u60	A respectable president. The source of this bill is in Brussels. This is where Brussels directives and Brussels regulations are being carried out, which is why this is being changed. I want to agree with what. A senator who gave a talk earlier, is about to be cast down by this bill. It is clear that taxi drivers who today can survive cab cars and support their families will almost certainly not be able to do that in the future. It's kind of taking up the economy here, called economy, with this bill. It says in the bill that the goal is even. to increase the safety of a cab service, but I cannot see that there is a greater security in the ministry. I can't see how the Uber likes and other people coming into the country will see to it that it's a whole day's service. It'll be a kind of weekend service, when it's most important, she'll take it off, but when the work is run by loss, it'll be difficult or impossible to get a taxi. I'm sure it's a very defective bill. All we can see is that the term "money station" is not defined. We don't even know what it is. Yet, it is mentioned in some of the articles of the bill. That's what 7th C.E. says. The bill says that the person who meets all of the following conditions may be allowed to operate under the directive. It says in the 2nd column: ▪ Has a working station here in a country that is active and stable. What does that mean? What does it mean to have an active and stable station? And then, if we look at the bill, it says that the changes include decommissioning an obligation to pay off a taxi station, so we're talking about a work station that's active and stable, but there's no payment there. It's completely empty, and it's perfectly fixed that this bill is kind of finished. In fact, a taxi vehicle needs to be defined, as well as a definition of what it means to have an active and reliable operating station in this country when it is at the same time a decommissionation is required to make payment on a rental vehicle station. It's nothing. Everybody knows what's going to call a cab station, and they order a ride with a cab that's gonna have to be somebody who's gonna answer at the other end. Of course, there must be some kind of service to be done. Then there's the part that handles the service with the app, if we talk about what's about to come here, i.e. Uber. They're foreign companies. I'm sure there's a competition up there, but I think these steps should even be conditioned in the law, at least considering that there will be an Icelandic, Icelandic software that will be used. There is no need to be using any means made abroad, and profit eventually leaves the country. That won't be necessary. It's very simple steps, it's not complicated computer science to create a program like this, not in any way. A cab driver in Reykjavík does not compete with a cab driver in London. It's just not like that. Or in Brussels, if we talk about the inner market. He's not about to drive to Brussels. So it is very important to be the Icelandic company that will be behind it. It is also very important to identify who is the agent for this foreign service. It's certainly true and very interesting what's going on here, it's mentioned at 31 st. The EEA Convention and interpreted that it is not a direct discrimination in validations, i.e. The establishment rights, as there are no barriers that make it harder for companies to use this right. Well, I can't quite see - I just think of the beach fishing right away. Coastal fishing is being limited here, which is not threatening the fish farm by hand fishing. It's done completely ruthlessly. I feel like we can just start wishing that Brussels has a directive to allow free hand-wage fishing here. And there's talk of professional freedom. Of course, it's professional freedom, and I'm very into unemployment, and most certainly the beach weather and the same rules should apply there. I don't think this bill is working well enough, and it has to be clear. There's talk of business permit here. They are to have a responsibility, and the obligation to have this service offered 24 hours a day. It's clear that the Uber people don't have an active station. There will never be an active base in this country with Uber, so it will not be in foreign lands and will not be here. To have no payment, it's to cancel it too, means that this service will actually be based on the economy and families will not be able to live on a cab driver's function. There will not be men in the full - time ministry who will live on it in the future. There is more to it. In Denmark e.g. expected that a rental vehicle station can only be sold by a taxi vehicle station. Yes, if only a taxi vehicle can be sold, that word needs to be defined. It must be established. There's been a complete hole inside it, but it's still said, "Yes, yes, it's a work station that's active and stable, but there's no payment. Is the app to be active then? Is it supposed to be on 24 hours a day? Another example of Denmark is that of one permit driver who could be at a rental car station. I can have my own rental car station, which is active and trust without payment, but that in itself is no station. There must be a station where many cab drivers come together to share their work, are at the set time of the day, and are on the set days of the week. It's been like a cat around a hot rock without handling the core of the situation, which is: are we gonna have a class here that's a taxi driver or not? And the question is: Do the conditions that are in place allow them to live a decent life here or to create some sort of class in the economy that is trying to survive, and the service may only be offered on weekends and at the most, not at the less lenient times? It's clear to me that the business is going to be run by a loss. It is clear, then, that if we are going to have a car ticket, we must make sure that the ministry is available at all times during the day and every day of the week. However, there does not seem to be much obligation in this bill; it is primarily being met by Brussels and the implementation of an ESA's directive and comments. Let us see. We are not billions of people. We're 3 60,000 people here. I can give you an example from Norway on the bill. There are a lot of interesting things in the bill. In Norway, the new system of rules includes hiding. in addition to the number of restrictions, it is permitted to limit the number of permits in rural areas where the need is greater and the population is below 20,000 and less than 80 people per square km. This will include the removal of changes in a duty to pay off a car station. We have to take into account special circumstances in Iceland, we're not a large community, we don't have good public transportation, so we have the private car, and then we have the cab service. So the cab service plays a bigger role here than in many other countries where you can jump into a tram, a subway, or a bus that has any sense. I don't think this bill is working well enough, as shown before. They need a lot more work to ensure them at least that if we are going to have this as a professional, those who do that work can survive it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u61	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion on this matter. Especially when it's rough. A senator once talked about extreme right now and thought this bill was extremeism, then I sat on it because I think it's rather extremeism if anything happens. But I cannot fail to ask, because I heard him. paritaprevir If I understood the reason, the Eyjólfur Ármannsson of Aarhua would mention banning foreign rivers. Just before this discussion, there was a senator. I wondered, " Is it Gang's policy? And where should we begin, and where should we end up in that regard? That's what I'm talking about. So when it applies to driving a cab or in general in the communal system, does a senator just talk about it? What about Airbnb, Spotify, bicycle rent, or anything else? I'm pointing this question to why. A senator: What does he mean by banning a foreign leg in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I never spoke of extremeism, quite so. I'm very into professional freedom. There's something wrong. A senator could see, e.g. With regard to the coastal fishing, i.e. increase the freedom to work and when to limit our freedom of work. And the thing about the adoption rights, that he's totally smart there about the beach fishing. About banning foreign appendages. What I'm wondering is that when we're talking about having a permit on the Icelandic market, which should tie it to an Icelandic rush - that's what we're talking about in Iceland alone. There is nothing that prevents us from creating the criteria for a new Icelandic beat, and we will make sure the profits of Icelandic employment remain in Iceland. It's no problem making Iceland some colony, branch, that's the least thing in the world. These stairs are not some kind of blessing that comes upon the world, and those who made the Uber app are no gods. I'm just wondering if this should be considered in a way that would include some kind of Icelandic media management, Icelandic management of software services. It's not even defined as a rental vehicle. And there's talk of an active work station. Everyone knows the app is not an active station. What's a cab ride? Is that an app? No, it's not the app. That's what needs to be completely clear. Why don't we have this cab stop, this station in the world, in some house there? No, of course she has to be here in Iceland. The software that performs this service doesn't care, has to be some kind of Icelandic interface. Just like taking the bus, I have an Icelandic app that I use to take the bus. I think it should be similar with a cab driver, that should be an app for the cab drivers, or can you have some kind of foreign bus ride in the world serving a bus in Reykjavík? Of course, that is not the case. It's an app to the Icelandic environment, and that's how I see it. I'm not against foreign brothers, no matter what.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. In response, a senator apologized for not saying so earlier, but that was not so. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who spoke of extremeism, which I believe is the greatest extreme focus on this bill, the words that have fallen here. But only with regard to the foreign marches. I think it's very risky if we're going to write it into a song to limit the use of technology, whether it's made in foreign lands or here in Iceland. And because of what. A senator only came into the bus or public carriages, but I think it would be great if there was an international app that one would laugh at the phone once and you could see how public carriages were in many parts of the world. Because one of the things that makes you very difficult and one of the challenges for tourists in Iceland is that they have to download Icelandic apps and then when they come to Denmark they have to download Danish apps to get into the way the public cars work there. That's why I think it's been a lot of call, especially from the young generation, who travel a lot and use stairs, being able to use the same steps as approaching a service in Iceland. But that does not change the fact that, of course, the people who drive the cars are Icelandic, the people who work here. Of course, it is not possible to do so somewhere else. So I pay attention to the fact that we think about having certain problems in law against technology. But what I fear, as I said before, is that this bill doesn't go far enough. But I still reiterate what I said in my talk: At the same time, I support the bill and think it's a step in the right direction. But to me it may be a small step.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u64	A respectable president. I'll thank you later for the answer. Senator. As mentioned here, the problem of those who are employed by rental vehicles is that the work station in this country is active and stable, and this calls for having a work permit. It's okay for someone who has a license to use foreign software. But it also needs to be considered: Who has the agency for this software in the country? What person? The agency must have some obligation in Iceland in the management environment that is here; that it is bound to Iceland - a license granted by Iceland's Icelandic government. And it's a good thing that app isn't a work station, it's just not. It's clear that the law on cab driving that doesn't define a taxi vehicle as a term and what it's about to go on is an insufficient law. If there is to be a permit for operating a taxi car where a taxi vehicle has to be owned, there are insufficient laws. It has to be known what this is all about. I'm sure it's a foreign step. I wonder again that we also need to create national software, we need to have a national run, like a bus and something else. I'm not against professional freedom. It's just that I feel a little bit bad when the mission from Brussels says that there's going to be a little bit more job freedom that the race to the hands and feet is going to come up and bring a bill. But when you're calling for employment freedom in coastal fishing, what is done? No, everything's stopped. The critical argument for the permit is quite clear. Business is to be kept 24 hours a day, every day of the week, even during the day when little is needed, and it needs to be organized. That's what's founded on, not just when Brussels calls "Hey, no, we have to do something, it's getting so cool in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. Ármannsson For the speech, the Monarch of the Eyjólfur's Son. I'm speaking here as a big-use cab service and other public transportation where I don't have a private car, I've never had, and don't want to spend millions on that device, and I think it's a certain civil rights of not needing it. In recent years, I've been getting into a lot of trouble with a cab service in Reykjavík, which means I don't get a cab or maybe in an hour of stress, even in 40 minutes, if I'm lucky. It's been particularly bad lately, and I get it if that's because there's a lot of stress, which is unusual. But it was like this a year ago too. This was also a year and a half ago. Sometimes he'll be here in five minutes, but I just don't get a cab. This is not a problem that is, yes, okay, unfortunate, because I can't get home from a party, which is perhaps what most Icelanders use cabs in. No, that means I can't get to a meeting. I can't take my children to where they need to go. I can't go. It's an unacceptable situation, in my opinion. It has now been noted in earlier talks that there is an increase in the number of cabs, an increase in the number of allows to solve this problem, and why. A senator mentioned that it is not such a big deal to do an app. Actually, I think it's a big deal, but anything is possible if there's a will. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: If all of this is possible, why not? Why is this happening? If the situation is so easy, why has it not been handled in another way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Well, I don't know enough for an Icelandic taxi driver, but it's more than good for an engine to have an app, Icelandic app, I just don't know it. [[Up front.]] - They got it? That's where it lies, and it's just good and good. But there is no problem in itself, this stage or Uber. It's no big deal for the Icelanders to use the ARM instead of the Uber app. There's no difference. The problem, however, is the problem. A senator was describing the problem of the class as such. The recovery is simply not good enough, it's all too short work and it's being created an economy. This will lead to an even greater economy when others can bring the Uber app and compete with those who have a license today. I'm all for opening up a little bit and trying to expand my ministry. It is very important that there is good service in this regard and, of course, those with real rental cars will be able to survive next to those who have those who have those steps. So that doesn't make any difference, we need to ensure that a certain group of people can live through this, can do it full-time work, and that the service is good for the users as well as that families can survive this. That's what matters. I don't have anything against foreign robots, not anything, and it's good to know that the engine pump has come. And the thing about people having to use the same apps in Iceland and abroad, as they did here in the previous talk - it's just not right, it's just not. When I take trains and trolleys in foreign lands, and all that. It's no problem to change apps, it's the least thing in the world to load an app, whether it's Icelandic or foreign. It's also about book sales, and I think it's time for Iceland to really go into the information economy and start making its own it, but not always to chairs in foreign parties in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u67	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, although I feel that my question may not have been necessarily answered. I don't fully understand why this has not been corrected. I just wanted to talk about what was mentioned here in the councilroom, with an answer. A senator, who is that, yes, he's got an app. It's been a long time. It's been years. This app is perfectly unsuitable. It's unreliable, it's inaccessible. It's done it now in this recent situation - I use this app a lot because I believe in it and I'm always waiting for it to be fixed and updated. A motorist seems to be aware that this is a useless app, but nothing is done about it. There is no motivation to do anything about it. I've had to call the cab stop to know what's going on because the app is frozen, gives me the wrong information, or just doesn't work in any other way. So I'd like to reiterate the question: If it's no problem to solve these problems, why hasn't it been done already? And then I'd also like to mention what I think is a big problem in this regard--even though I don't have the magic solution, I'm quite sure that the system we have now doesn't work -- and that's about supply and demand. The demand for cabs is, I think, enormously different from the time of the day and more. It is quite clear that there is more to the day, but perhaps not in times of stress, but there is a considerable and serious excess demand in times of stress. So I'm just going to try to repeat my question, how do you think it is? Is it possible for a senator to solve this in another way? And why has this not already been done when a problem has existed for years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. Why is the ministry not as it should be? I think that's why there's a scratch in this class. If you drive a taxi, it's a small amount of extra work, and I think it's getting a little extra work in the economy. And it's being added even further to this present system. The ministry is not being improved. I don't think there's a chance that a person driving with the Uber app or the elevator will be able to expand the service. It's crystal clear to me. If the service is to be extended, it needs to be done in the current system, which is probably increasing the number of drivers and improving the current system. In fact, I think in the future that's for sure. I've lived in a community where both systems exist and I always use the cab service, always. I even ask them to wake me up in the morning when I have to fly. Well, that's about as simple as that. But it is clear that once these steps have arrived, there will be no station. To argue that there may be a working station here in a country that is active and stable to the use of the app is just not true. It's not like that. It says: The license for such a person to be published by the Association Labour Labour Centre should be granted as a license. And the conditions are to have an active and stable station. It will never work if a person is just driving with the Uber app. It's just not right. It's not like that. It's just a social dumpping, like it's called. Here people will come and take this shit off when they do most. When profits are made, they will jump into and take the profits while the others are stuck with the lost time when they're low and have to wait very long to get a trip where there will be a big difference between those who are really doing this as a profession on the basis of a permit and the people who jump into this thing every once in a while, on the basis of the app. This difference is very important. I know that the bill is trying to match the conditions. I don't think it's done well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u69	President. The last three elections have been fall elections, 2016, 2017, and 2021. On October 29, 2016, following the publication of the Panama Documents that informed us that somewhere there must be money, as at present. The minister of the wood said. Among those who had to keep their money somewhere, there were then prime minister and then the local minister and current financial minister. The Panama documents were published on April 3 and produced the largest protests in the history of Iceland, when some 22,000 people gathered in front of the Assembly Hall. A new government was introduced to the election in the fall. Why was the election not being announced immediately during the spring? An intriguing question remains to be asked today. On September 14, 2017, Birt's future of government cooperation with the Independence Party ended because of a serious confidential breakdown due to the loss of the case. On the other hand, on October 28, 2017, an election was launched as rapidly as possible. For that time, it was just a good idea to preach to an election right away. It was not even an attempt to form a new section or even a minority government; it was literally a run back into the booth. After the 2017 election, Katrín's government took over the daughter of Jakobsdóttir and immediately questioned whether the next election would return in the fall or whether the ideal period would be corrected. However, there was little response, as indicated by a question at the beginning of 2020. It pointed to the highest. The prime minister's date is now October 2021, which is technically correct. The leader of the Independence Party said that it took, by permission of president, blood, sweat, and tears, to reach power, and why on earth should you give it up six months before the law says so? That would suggest a town's power. Finally, though, an attitude came from the highest point of view. Prime Minister in the summer of 2020, will not later be more generous if the election is to be held in the spring. On the other hand, the next election was set on September 25, 2021 to escape a fair and decent election campaign. However, after all, fear - inspiring events threatened the day of election. Another argument for fall elections, said prime minister, was to escape what has been called a campaign law, that elections in the autumn were a good time to get rid of that practice. There is a slight reverse, however, that the budget is ready but without being published properly before elections, which is interesting. In our neighboring countries, Norway and Sweden choose in the fall, Finnar in the spring. Danir votes for the next June 4, 2023, for a four-year term, sooner if the election is suddenly announced. It's like an arrangement in Iceland, because we actually have the same constitution. Clearly, then, any time of the year can be chosen, but only because it can be done does not mean that choosing any time of the year is a good idea. That's why I think it's important that we discuss it right now at the beginning of the election season when the next election will be held, but only in order to keep it from an emotional decision about it at the end of the season, because the experiences of the past few years have to be said that the autumn elections are an extremely bad idea, especially because the council has to accept a New Year's budget. It has to be said that if something goes wrong in the implementation of an election or when the making of a government is not working well, it can have consequences pretty much for handling the budget. The whole financial process, the rhythm of it, assumes elections in the spring. So you have to ask the highest. The prime minister who has the authority to determine the date of the next election, when it should be, especially because if the election is to be held back in the fall, if early elections become the norm, changes must be made to make the beat for the budget more natural and can work in such an environment. But perhaps it is another thought that we need. Maybe we need exactly a new rhythm on our system, if not just a whole new song. Perhaps what we need to focus on is a new thought. Perhaps we need to ask ourselves, " What is the best time to vote for an election? A country government is chosen in spring, president in summer, and just beginning in the autumn of the Council? ' Still, we need not ask ourselves, " What is the most appropriate time, and why? ' Not because of the way it is now or because of the way it has been done but only how we can make it better. It must always be the basis of all the work here at the council asking us how we can do better, and I ask the highest. Prime Minister and all other classes here at council: When is it best to have elections for the Generals, and why?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u70	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Levi the Leví of Gunnarsson for starting this case, which is the timing of elections, both general and specific. I want to say that in III. chapter 4 of the Constitution, which covers the order of the General Assembly and the General elections, says in 31 st. that candidates are elected for four years. So I have to say that I disagree completely with the senator's interpretation that the decision to make the terms being four years, as laid down in a constitution, is a personal decision. The decision to vote last fall was simply to make the season a four years apart. However, we have that authority as a dog. A senator noted that it is possible to shorten the election period by breaking it, moving it on the day of our election. Then I'll come to a question. A senator to whom he concluded: What is the best time to choose? It does not contain any laws of nature. We know what we've been through the election in the spring and election in the fall that elections will be rooted in a particular society, such as it was then, practically based on the timepan in the countryside, and in the 21st century, it's our decision to discuss the right time here. We know that the weather is not necessarily better in the spring than the fall. Although predictions were made, the success of the last election was excellent. I traveled all over the country and never got into any trouble then. There wasn't a default, and it wouldn't have been by the end of spring elections. We can agree that there are no outside causes in nature that require that we choose spring rather than fall. Each has its own faults and advantages. Then I'll get to it. A senator mentioned financial or financial matters. I think there's something we should talk about at the council, and it's fine that we talk about it when there's not an election all over the corner. What can we do better so that it is really possible to choose at any time of year, which is completely independent of financial work? It should be much simpler after we have adopted the arrangement of financing financial programs, financial policies, and so - called filament laws. But you're right about what you're talking about. To some extent, a senator elected to a new assembly is put in a difficult position to get all the information on the budget in the fall - which was later able to be said in the fall because of the interest that took place in the northwestern district and the study conducted by the Parliament on the counting votes there. So it may have been in some way an abnormal situation that I really hope not to repeat. I wondered that the work process might be adjusted to provide additional information for members of the Governing Body. Of course, they're discussing a financial program in the spring, and if we give ourselves to elections in the fall--which I'm not necessarily saying is the best idea, I say it's no less than choosing in the spring - we can wonder when it comes to discussing financial planning to a certain time how we can improve the work force so that members of the council who are leaving in elections have more information for the budgets that we see in the fall. There's no doubt that we can do better than we have, for this has not been so much of a experience. I'd like to mention it, for example, as the other day passed by. A senator, that it is chosen to be a problem in the fall in Norway and Sweden, just in Norway, since it is not permitted to vote sooner. There, the ideal period is four years, no matter what comes up and only in the fall. In Sweden, election election election election election is scheduled on Sunday afternoon, but the government may decide to make elections sooner. Finns are with their election laws on Christmas Day in April. In Denmark, prime minister can actually announce elections at any time during the election season. If we look e.g. in Norway is elected Monday in September, while the budget is submitted at the council for the second week of October, followed by the latter part of December. Although it will be a government trade in elections, it is a matter of long - term policy dating. It is held very tightly, so the budget that is proposed in October rests entirely on the budget adopted in spring. I think that in itself is what we should be headed for so that we can choose either spring or fall, but if elections are in the fall, there are certain rules to play together financial plans and budgets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u71	Madam President. It's always a bit fun when the General talks about himself and how to keep things. But all kidding aside, I think it's a very need for discussion and it's good to take it right now at this very moment at the beginning of this terms. This should be so that there is no decision or any danger of it in the process. I can stand here at all, not to talk about the Union's policy, say that my experience tells me that maybe it's better to keep things more fixed in the form. Perhaps we should consider elections every four years, senators being elected for four years, holding them as Norwegians do, and then leaving it to the General Assembly of Iceland and Congress if, for example, that is appropriate. A government loses its share or needs to establish a minority government. This may be a well - chosen and democratic method of working. If so, we are not in that position that we have found in recent years. It is quite clear that autumn elections such as they have been here in the last two times are not suitable for the tempo in the budget, and we are not there for financial policy as a document to remain unchanged by government exchange. It's just not like that in Iceland. It must then be that the government that accepts, whoever it is, is responsible for the financial bill. In this respect, the timing in the spring is much better, and in a better way with the administrations and the business of the Ministry of finance, and it also provides a stronger political authority to win budgetary support in accordance with financial policy. So I think we should take advantage of this opportunity to think about these matters on a ◯ ground and a pound, so I'll get a shot, and even thinking about totally changing our approach on how we're doing this here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u72	A respectable president. I appreciate this conversation, which is just fine. I have to admit, I've heard what I've heard a lot of times. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is discussing this with regard to the law of the law and that choosing in the fall of that law is not appropriate. Actually, I didn't think Piratars were such conservatives that it was difficult to change. As we've been through here, it's very different in the countries around us, in the autumn and in the spring. It is also true that the natural wound is the same, so these countries must be dealing with the same thing. I think the very law on public finances should have helped us with this. This is not to be as difficult as it may have been since when we only had financial laws that we were accepting in December, and that was really the only government policy and nothing was taking long ago. But now we have financial policy, financial plans, and so money. Of course, it is a measure of pressure and perhaps what we had after the last election when it took a long time to destabilize in one of the districts, which, of course, put us in a special position. I can totally agree with that, and it was quite a shock that we set out here at the council to work on the other side of the budget and then the government financial policy. But I can't see that this is our big problem and everything. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson ended up asking: "When is it best to have an election? I'm just saying, when the season's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u73	A respectable president. When you ask a large question, you will find that there is little to be said about answers. The law states that regular elections are to be performed at the end of the term. The beginning and end of the terms of the term is based on the same day of the month, each from the month on, although a special election has not been performed on that day. The Council shall state when the General Assembly election should be undertaken. The nine-year period is four years. When and when to vote? I think it would really be the scariest thing if we were to vote for Generals and local governments at the same time. It'd be a bit harsh. That's why I say we're supposed to keep it tight, but is it in the spring or in the fall? How should we decide? A simple matter, let the democracy rule, let the public rule, ask the common people. Why not? Whether the country's public votes in spring or fall. Let us take care of it so that it is perfectly clear that it is chosen for four years. I think that the roundabout of recent events, that there is a risk that a government could explode in one year and cause elections to occur at different times, in effect, is the worst form of democracy we should still respect. So I say, "Let's go to national law. " Let the public decide if he wants to vote in the spring or in the fall or if they just want to vote in the middle of the summer. They're in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u74	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for this discussion, as well as for the highest. Prime Minister for her answers. I'm glad there's a discussion about what needs to be done about the next total election. Since it is important that the Council's work for the next year be clear after the election, it is good to start this discussion early. But when we address the General elections, as we see here, the debate has generally been about whether they should be in the autumn or in the spring. The time span can be bearded indefinitely, since all times have advantages and defects. As noted earlier, each terms will be four years; in this process, the next total election will normally be autumn, just as it was last. If the election is to continue until spring, there will be clear evidence to follow that decision, and it may well be done. It is worth noting that the government is elected for four years at the same time, and the voters trust it with good work all that time. However, we all know that there may be events that lead to an earlier election, but we do not make that decision until there is reason to do so. There has not yet been enough reason to shorten the current legal period. Until the second light comes, we will aim to keep the election in accordance with election law, and this election period will therefore be four years. Consequently, the management board can organize its work accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u75	Madam President. That's an interesting discussion. It's not that it's new, and we're not getting closer to someone if I understand this discussion right here. We are used to making elections in spring, and there have been six exceptions from the Republic Institute. Half of these exceptions in the last three elections; prime minister resigned, the government fell, and then the government ruled for a whole term and decided to follow this new trend. The three autumn elections, 1949, 1959, 1979, decided that the next governments will not disappear from the traditional arrangement for spring elections and cut short their terms of three and a half years instead of four. Three and three. The practice of spring elections did not arise without reason, and the strongest, as mentioned here, is that the budget of each year is applied in December. We found that 2016 and 2017 were quickly processed. This led to uncertainty. This is unpleasant and makes mistakes more likely. In the next year of a precious season, we may be inclined to correct mistakes that were made or to perform some work that should have been done and were not won. V.E.G. In the fall of the election, the prime minister said that the season from September through the years was enough for careful financial work. It may well be, but it is clear that the time between November and the end of the year was not sufficient for careful financial work, so it is reversed. I'd like to add to the discussion also defects in autumn elections. It is true that members of Congress, and it is not the government alone, are elected for four years, and so is the case. They get voters' commission for four years. But with the fall election on a large part of the council members, those not ministers, it's very difficult to do their jobs because it's not a conventional assembly, and it can last months before election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a real flaw, and it is a challenge for us members of the Parliament to care for our assignments. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u76	Madam President. I thank the founder of this discussion for her. I don't think anyone's wondering if it's best to choose in the spring. It's right in front of us. Of course, one way or another can be explained that it doesn't matter, four years will pass when they finish and all of it. But if a person were to come to a clean table, it would be chosen spring, whether it was a funded spring, an opportunity for new senators to prepare, or what it might be, all at the same well. There is also another event that takes place through the autumn elections that took place in this late autumn. It's that the first assembly of the season will be slightly odd. Hv. paritaprevir The son of Friðriksson came into it, in part, in his speech. We'll see, for example. this is March 1st, but March 31 is the last day of contributions. The cases that have so far been more and less of the old administration of the previous government. In spite of this, members of the government come up in ranks and declare a warning to the rest and to the above. This first council is all a little strange. I don't really care if the government itself gets into trouble with this kind of thing, but this makes it harder for us senators to think of in terms of their role. This puts the Senate in position to make practice more efficient. The time on committees is gonna be closer than desirable and this could be counted for a long time. So I don't think we should waste time on this discussion whether it's better to vote in the spring or in the fall. Clearly, it is better to choose in the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u77	A respectable president. I would also like to start by thanking the originator for the discussion. It had truly begun earlier in winter because of the government's decision to have elections four years after the first. I say the government's decision, and I may object in some way to the Supreme Court. The prime minister mentioned earlier that this is simply because the terms are four years, and he joins them with a bang. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son here just a few moments ago; if there's evidence to support some tradition, it's perfectly clear that there's an election in the spring, not just elections four years later. Then the government also spoke about it, when this decision was made to have elections in the fall, that it was not because it was inevitable, but because it was more suitable for the government to sit longer. I just want to mention some of the things I think positive about choosing in the fall. I started to get involved in politics early in youth, and this was often a bit bad, for in school it is the spring of a tremendous period of stress. Young people are being tested, and it limits the potential for young people to participate in elections and campaigns and perform their democratic roles that I think are very bad. It is quite clear, however, as shown in the case of all who have spoken, including the highest. Prime Minister, that in order for the idea of elections to succeed in the fall, basic adjustments need to be made, not just on our laws, our system on finance, but, rather, in our culture. [[The president calls.]] I think we should look at this from the right end and maybe start there before we decide to vote in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u78	A respectable president. The democracy is not to be served, the system is to serve the democracy. This means that the system needs to be flexible and capable of dealing with changing situations, situations we know here in the country, and here I refer to a number of general elections in the decade after a crash. Since then, some aspects of the system's flexibility have been improved, and in the context of this discussion, this is especially true of a new financial and long - term programme, which, like the Supreme Court, adds both to safety and to tact. The prime minister entered his talk. It is customary to view a system as inflexible, and it lacks innovation and proper response when unexpected events occur. We have developed a long - term public financial perspective, but we also need to continue to build up the system's flexibility in as many areas as possible. It is in favour of democracy that we are in a position to cope with unforeseen circumstances. According to that, campaigns are not about the budget or other formalities. An election is about the foundations of our operating system. They are a matter of democracy, and in this light there are other factors besides the election's timing that need to be considered. I think, for example. It is important to mention the need to promote the campaign election of young people who have been less likely to be considered for the final year's district and district election campaigns. This is a big matter to me, but it is a subject for another discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u79	Madam President. We're a public agent and a public agent. It's not in the interests of the public to vote in the fall, I'll let myself claim it here. But it is clearly in the interests of a local government to vote in the fall, send an early Council home, and begin to distribute money and marvelous promises of public expenses, expenses to be discussed in the conference hall. This was done by the government in the turn of elections that promised and so on, new mental wards were promised, helicopter shelters were promised, student camps were promised in Flattation, etc. We watched it in the fall elections, and the Generals were sent home on vacation while the ministers were running around. It is not only the financial process that upsets a fall. Rather, it seems that autumn elections were not suitable for other matters and were not at all suitable for Ministers who are trying to foot in new offices because according to the updated Constitution of Prime Ministers and the Government, 97 administrations were required to have entered the hall of March 1, 97 pact proposals and bills, which are 17. It's just the situation. Of course, it's awesome to watch things come in because we're here day after day, and the government finally agreed to enter Congress, to deal only with members of Congress, and then sent home because there's no government case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u80	A respectable president. Here we will discuss one of the most important issues in our administration, the elections themselves, the basis for democracy, and how much this discussion is about some project in this council. There's something that we can just plan and agree on how we do it best, and that's what we're for. That's what we're supposed to do. This discussion is democracy, and it's number one, two and three. Perhaps in the fall, the reason for choosing is the way the law is, and we were enforcing it and the democracy. It was because of something that was decided to give an election during an election period, and then this situation came up. Then, in the fall of the governments, which served for four full years, were using the time they had been separated. We just have to discuss this from democracy, and then we, who are ideal, will be able to follow through on these weighty jobs and find ways to do so, and we may well do so. That was exactly what democracy is important and elections that delayed the start of the budget work in the fall. We need to talk about this, feel I, more like the way our democratic order is and how the election's implementation is, not because of a project like work in here and how we're going to carry it out in here. It's different, as it was in the past, after Congress and something we can only organize and agree on. We're supposed to be the problem and we can do it now that we're volunteering for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u81	A respectable president. I don't think it matters very much whether elections are in the fall or in the spring. If we look at the politicians we have and we look at Norway, which has been mentioned here, then there is nothing like a politician there. We're living at a war culture of so-called "gadversary'-politics" while it's a cooperative government thing there. We are not yet out of it, and the goal should, of course, be to achieve more cooperation. The last election before that was October 28th, 2017, and the last government wanted to be the entire ultimatum period, and there's nothing to say. In terms of the budget, the next year's budget should be submitted and I'm on a budget committee and I don't know any better than this work can be achieved in January. There's nothing to stop it. The law of the law is the most insistent business of the State and the government officials who win the budget. The political being of the law, yes, it is, but I suppose the last government and current government have had financial laws to shape their policies because they were going to work together if they held the Senate. It would have been complicated if the administrative part had fallen, then it would have been necessary to bring a change of direction into that budget. The present government had eight weeks to agree on the budget and the government covenant, so putting it in its first session was not too risky. Of the fact that the work was done in January, I've heard that there is a historical precedent for this. [[The president calls.]] So I just want to have the current system as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u82	V.E.G. President. I come up here again to allow myself to disagree with what happened earlier, that there is not much difference between spring and autumn. I'm gonna allow me to make one advantage of having elections in the fall because I've had a rather serious problem over the last few weeks of my district. The Northeast monasteries are enormous, and now before elections, the candidates of all classes had traveled thousands of miles to hold a meeting, meet voters, and care for the district. campaigns can last for weeks, even months. Therefore, if the election is spring, it may be estimated that candidates will begin their campaign early in the new year, as we do now in the coming district election. However, a Icelandic bet may be a major factor when candidates have to travel long distances to meet voters. During the last few days, we have learned what Icelandic weather gods can be moody. There have been violent storms that have damaged houses, closed roads, people, and things, and cannot be traveled anywhere. The dressers are to be able to meet the candidates of their district and to rely on the opportunity to arrive at a vote. With that in mind, it can easily be held that a measure of security lies in having elections in the fall. The candidates can trust that this is possible, and voters can trust to meet potential candidates and reach their destination.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u83	Madam President. From June last to December, the Allied Council was, in effect, operating only to a very limited extent. This means that the government became largely free of the Senate's keeping and observation. We can put this in the context of the antiseptic bitch. June 26, all meeting restrictions in Iceland were canceled. They began a month later; September 3, new rules were set up, September 15, new rules were set up, exposés 20th of October, November 5, again November 12, and in December. All this time, only to a limited extent, a council was at work because of the fall elections and because the government took eight weeks to conduct a political debate on the same cooperation. By the fall election, the Senate's surveillance role was greatly weakened, and this is to my mind the serious action of the government against the council. Second point: In subsidies in December, it was assumed that government funds would be expelled at 170 billion dollars. Do it now. In this situation, the Senate had a part of December to do the budget, a project that usually takes place all in the autumn and is the largest project in the autumn. In addition to this situation, the government decided to increase the number of budgets, the increase in the number of ministers that will cost about 1.8 billion in this ideal period, and the government has become, as we know, the largest number in over a decade. In addition, this new Ministry did not begin its operation until February 1. An election took place on September 25, the government was formed November 28th, and the Ministry began to roll on February 1. [[The president calls.]] Apostolic elections thus made it clear that Congress was not actually performed for months. [[The president calls.]] The work of all recruitments was then in slow motion for 2 billion dollars. The Minister of the Cathedral. It's the scene that counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u84	Madam President. Thank you. Senators and presidents, especially for letting me here in a pita. While I listened to this discussion, what was going on today was so tragic in the process of campaigning and actually from the ceremony until election. It was this temptation that bypasss stewards who play loose after the council leaves on vacation. This was not bad with counsellors, but it was in chapters such as some ministers could hardly get out in the morning any different than leaving tens of billions of such as from helicopters over friends and relatives or groups that were likely to increase the votes of the elected minister. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, this is not acceptable. I'm going to let me say this isn't human nature that comes out there, it's just a misuse of public funds. For example, when governments set out to cover election elections, as if to be their own campaign fund, it is a good thing to do. But for the discussion, because I got to come in a punk the second time, thank you very much. A president in the back of this government now seated is any time for elections. For my sake, we could vote for Christmas and New Year, we'd get that opportunity, only if we get rid of this government. That'd be an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u85	President. I want it perfectly clear when I say you can choose at any time. However, this requires a measure of discipline that I have not experienced in Iceland. Given this inadequacy, spring elections or early elections are, in the beginning of June, highly suitable even for four years of constant periods, perhaps to impose discipline on other things, so that our opportunism does not run with us as it does on a regular basis. I'm no more conservative than that, huh? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. Of course, government financial laws help, but once again it's opportunistic to treat us as if I don't know what. It's simply not following that law, it's just the standard, because of the same opportunism as always. In effect, I asked a simple question: When is it best to have an election? And the answer is that they can be taken at any time, but we also need to choose what kind of flow we have in it so that the management management doesn't have to be flexible, since the flexibility of the administration is usually overwork, and we were heavily overworked to make up for the budgets won at the end of the year. It's not very healthy either. I would like to finish this discussion by asking directly: "When will elections be next? Because if it's any other time than late spring or even early summer, we need to start adjusting right away. That is why the question is important and the answer is even more important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u86	Mr. President. Hv. A senator who spoke before me spoke of the lack of discipline. I can totally agree with a lot of what he said, but more is involved in the memory loss that seems to dominate this room. It's like whisk. Councilmen forgot that here was the General Assembly himself to investigate the results and count in one outstanding example of six and to take the time it needed to do so. To draw strong conclusions about autumn elections, whether or not. An apocalyptic person did not, but some other members of the Parliament did, obviously, have a complete lack of logic, so we both stick to the memory and lack of reason we have here. It is also a challenge to hear members of Congress who are unable to hear this review of facts say that autumn elections are against the public interest. They are likely to be against the public interest in Norway and Sweden, where it is always chosen in the fall. [[Up front.]] I can also review a debate about election promises; elections 2007, election 2009, election 2013. I was running in all these elections, unlike most of the people here have spoken. They were in the spring, and there was certainly a debate over the fact that governments at the time began campaigning. I think it's fine that we just rip up the story and cultivate the memory that is very important to do when discussing politics. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I like the discussion, and I like to hear it. Congress members are seriously discussing whether to look at work on financial policies, financial schemes, and budgets in connection with the changed election time. I think it's interesting to hear what you're talking about. Senators here discuss that we should simply change our schedule and look to Norway. I find interesting the ideas presented here that we need to take a closer look at in order to make a list of the budgets for autumn elections that are related to what was mentioned here on long - term conferences and politicians. [[The president calls.]] This is a discussion we should continue to discuss. [[Up front.]] But I suggest that we draw conclusions because some of us seem to have forgotten what happened yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[Up and down To the Lord's day]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u87	The president prays that people do not shout in front of speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u88	Madam President. I come up here to correct myself because there are more than 40 cases of the 97 cases that the government said they would have committed on March 1, after taking two months to assemble the government, after publishing a Senate book, and after reexamined the Constitution. So the first number I carried turned out to be wrong. That's over 40 cases of 97.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u89	President. I wanted to come up to the conference board too because I feel that we can make that minimum requirement to the highest degree. Prime Minister that she tries to participate in the conversation that takes place in this Hall and on the material discussed here. The subject was autumn elections. The figure in the Northwestern district is not the result of your decision with your people in autumn elections. The subject objected to the consequences of autumn elections, and some presumptuous attitude over what followed was simply not part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u90	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, No. 1919/1940 (child matter, hatred speech, discrimination, etc.)Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The bill was previously submitted to the 151th legislature, but it was not decomposed by a Senate committee. It is now submitted materially unchanged, but with minor modifications to text. In preparation for the bill, there are some factors. Justice development has been considered elsewhere in the North countries but also the international commitments of Iceland, particularly the International Convention on Deletion of All Races and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinction. With 1 st. The bill is presented in two forms. First, it is suggested at 1st. 70 C. a general penalties are also being added to the new figure that makes it necessary to take into account punishment for crime due to ethnic or national background, racial background, race, religion, disability, sexual features, sexual orientation, gender, or other factors comparable to those of today. This part of the adjustment is attributable to the United Nations Committee on Racism, which includes: has directed them to the Icelandic government of up to 70 C.E. a penal law will be changed so that it can lead to severe swallowing in the event of a broken race. These recommendations fail with 1 st. The bill. In contrast, when preparing the bill, it was not considered proper to limit such a change to race. Rather, it was considered proper to add to all the factors listed in Article 233. a The law on hate speech, as the motivations of a wrongdoer who is rooted in prejudice or hatred speech in general, should be considered punishment. This adjustment is linked to Article 5. The bill is deemed worthy below. With a b- team 1st par. The bill is suggested to be taken as a means of swallowing punishment if a fracture was committed in the presence of a child less than 15 years of age. In view of the psychological and emotional consequences that it can have for such a young person to witness a violation. With 2 st. The bill is submitted to a 1st-mg change. 180. g. a general penalties, but as per law of law, any person in a business or service should refuse to accept a product or service to others on the grounds of nationality, manner of color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or gender, suffering guilt or prison punishment for up to six months. This arrangement is suggested to provide all the same groups listed in Article 233. a, for hatred speech, protection from discrimination on delivery of goods or services to others. With a factor of 3. The bill is presented with significant changes in child abuse regulations 210. g. a general penalties, but the ordinances include about sexually explicit footage. First, the distribution is suggested to be added to the list of procedures listed in 1 mg. the law. Although there is now a penalty for obtaining or other matter under law, it is proper to state clearly that its distribution is usually punishable. Second, a definition of child abuse is the law of child abuse. The list of different types of content and text points in the text of the provisional text is not omited. Radiographs are also referred to, no matter what form they are. Similarly, sexual activity, as well as the term use associated with fractures against children, is widely out of date. Third, a violation of the law directed against children is proposed to protect a maximum of six - year prison punishment for two years now. In evaluating gross acts, particular attention should be given to the extent of a crime, whether a child's life has been compromised, whether a child has been subjected to gross violence, whether a child has suffered physical or physical damage, or if a crime is committed in a systematic or organized way. Fourth, it's suggested at 210. a Add to Article 1 and 2 of Directives. does not apply to personal relations of young people when certain conditions are met. This does not apply to the person who created, viewed, or has inherited material that shows a 15, 16, or 17 - year - old child, but the one from which the material has consented and both sides are at the same age and stage of development. At the same time, it is suggested that both 1 and 2. nor do children of the same age who share substances of themselves. This means that a child in the above age range is without crime to create an image that falls below 1 mg. and send it to another person. Similarly, even if they are in the same age and stage of development, a receiver is in line to protect such materials with the consent of the image. You should point out that the complex subject is and not easy to combine and protect the important interests so that others will not be left out. If this adjustment is adopted, it will be guaranteed that if a 50 - year - old convinces a 16 - year - old child to send sexually explicit images to the child, the recipient will not be allowed to examine or store the images. On the other hand, a 17 - year - old person may send such photos to a 25 - year - old fiancée or fiancee and may not be allowed to store or examine the photos without culminating the blame if it is concluded that he is not at the same age as maturity. In some cases, this may seem to be an unfair conclusion. These views were all taken into consideration during the preparation of the bill, and they concluded that it was far more important to keep track of the fractions mentioned in the first example, but it was proper to draw special attention to this point. I hope that a careful consideration will be made. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Fifth, a change in the structure of the article is proposed so that 2th paragraph 1. the current provision must become a new provision 4. mg, but this paragraph discusses adults who are sexually shown, as they are in the role of a child, or if such a child is imitated, even though it is not real. It is reasonable to separate fragments directly directed against children and fragments in which adults are shown in the role of children or in material that is not real and that is discussed in separate paragraphs in the bill. The maximum penalty for such violations is further assumed to be two years in prison. With a section four. The bill is suggested to include the general penalties being added to a new set of 210rds. c, involved in the interconnection relationship between the two child abuse laws, i.e. 210 g. a, 210. g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This involves becoming a man judged against either article as guilty of a new offense against either of them or to both, the sentence on the first breaking has an added penalty for the second. Punishment may be added up to half of it, i.e. 50% to the maximum. The application warrant thus contains a penalty case. With a 5. Finally, the bill is suggested to replace the word "ethnicity " in the abusive speech of 233. gr. a general penalties, come a national or national origin. The change is in harmony with the United Nations Commission's recommendation on racial discrimination, but the committee has considered that the existing law does not take into account what is stated in English, by permission of presidents, κethnic origiin, to be the proper indication. Of course, the term "ethnic origin" or national origin as it is here is not defined in the international Convention on Rabies of All Rabies. Yet, it is clear that this is far more extensive than the concept of nationality. Thus, national background could refer to a group of people sharing a common cultural heritage, background, and language, for example. Then it was also suggested that those who are disabled will be protected from hatred speech of 233rd pars. monitoring. As I mentioned earlier, such a change was not considered to be necessary for the validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, but it is, in contrast, highly in his spirit. So it is proper and timely to suggest such a change. It is also suggested that gender symptoms be added to the list of 233.g. a general penal law. By doing so, people with atypical sexual traits are protected in the same way as other vulnerable groups. In accordance with the definition of sexual autonomy, No. 80/209, refer to gender-related biological factors, such as sex chromosomes, hormone function, gonadal gland and genitals. V.E.G. President. I have considered key elements of the bill made changes in order to respond to changed and social attitudes, both to hatred speech, to various forms of discrimination, to child abuse, and to others. The legal development of other Northern countries and various international commitments in Iceland has been considered. Other aspects of the work are referred to the bill's work as well as to comments on individual regulations. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u91	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for the bill. It's very good that we're out there. It does not help to handle these matters properly and to discuss matters so that we should be sure that punishment is strict. It is up to six years in prison for gross abuse of children, and this is also related to online material. Now it seems lent in court that maximum punishment is not used, and that is why I ask, in terms of the grossst fractures, especially in view of the serious consequences for children, whether they should not enter a minimum of six years of imprisonment for the grossdest of the crimes. Those who violate children are usually adults who know exactly what they are doing and who have no compensation. The question is, to make sure that the power of the muscle is strong enough, and to try to protect the children as much as possible, whether there is no need to harden the punishment even further, and even to ensure that in the bill, there is a minimum of six years in prison for the gross wrongs in these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It refers to as many as six years of prison and as a why. A senator mentions it in foreign not to go to maximum punishment. This, of course, is a court assessment based on the seriousness of each offense. There is the penalty frame in the guidelines, in the Northern countries, and I place it a little in the hands of the committee to determine whether or not to act on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I think it'll be the best thing to do with the committee looking at this. It's as if we know one of the ugliest things on the Internet, and it's kind of a disgrace that such a terrible thing, such gross violence, can be grassy, that such material can be published, that it can't be prevented. As we know, it's hard to deal with the Internet, but I hope that there's power to harden the legislation and the line of execution so that you can think twice before they act.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u94	A respectable president. You can agree with that. A senator with such offenses has more unpleasant and full reason to harden the border as it is being done. Of course, there are expectations that there may be power to do so, as well as all the work that takes place when it comes to sexual abuse in the general sense. Of course, this applies to children as well as to others. An increased level of consciousness is also taking steps to inform children and others, encouraging them to take action in such a case so that they will be investigated and found guilty, if necessary. That's part of the campaign we were doing right here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u95	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of prehistoric history, taking his heart up to the bill and its objective, to respond to changing attitudes in society regarding the offenses and practices discussed. I'd also like to call attention to the fact that the development of rights is being carried out in other parts of the North, which are very important, that are countries that we strongly compare ourselves with. The United Nations has also been specifically consulted on the violation of racial discrimination and has been followed by the right recommendations. It was shown in a recent discussion that it is important to gain punitive treatments from two years to six years on child abuse and development factor 3. is revised, which I think is a great improvement. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, where the bill's objective is to respond to changing social viewpoints regarding the violations discussed here and the developments elsewhere in the North countries: much the highest. A minister uses funds to be trained by police officers who will investigate such offenses as well as by accusers'reports in order to respond to these social attitudes? It is good and blessed that the law is correct, but it is also of great importance that research into these offenses reflects the changed attitudes in the community and the seriousness of these offenses. Will a minister claim that there will be funds for the training of police officers who will cover these offenses and after the incident also involved accusers?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He's witnessing here, which is a very important point in these general matters, the investigator's training on such matters. We have added much money to the sex crime party this year, 200 million. K. It's a permanent financing. Part of it is the current vigilance campaign that includes children and younger people, as well as society. We feel that with increasing awareness in the community, these fractions can be approached and may prevent them from occurring. Well, that's the goal, anyway. Clearly, a study of these matters requires a great deal of expertise and training. That's exactly the tip of the question. Senator. You don't take people directly out of the police school or any other people from the street to investigate these matters. Also, they are often connected with computer use and so on, requiring special knowledge in this respect. It is my goal to use these funds for training. There's training in a group of investigators at the police department, and we're going to grow in that group, and this is part of it. The money we just received will eventually be used to increase the number of investigators and the prosecutors in these difficult matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u97	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for good answer. It is important to place extra funding in the training of police officers and in the following cases of prosecutions in this category and in particular in the case of investigators. These issues require a measure of expertise, and these are very delicate matters. I feel that the influence of North American legal development on criminal law in Iceland, the law of penalties, is very interesting and also global, the international commitment of Iceland. We talked about money and changes in corruption regulations last month, and that effect is very important. Child molester violations, in particular the possession of footage, are also international offenses. We live in Internet times and other things. I ask the minister directly: Isn't it also important to focus on cooperation, international cooperation, the police with the police in other countries who have expertise in this, to gain knowledge from other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u98	A respectable president. He'll see you again. A senator on his head. That is exactly what needs to be addressed and considered. This is true not only of this category but of many other criminal issues that arise and relate to international wrongdoing. As we have received reports from the police, we have a growing problem in this regard. This is exactly what police need to get more comprehensive sources to do in cooperation, receive information, provide information, and process information from other police teams. This is a very limited factor today, and I have a bill that meets these views and I hope that we can finish it before spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u99	A respectable president. I support this bill at the highest. Minister of Justice and would like to contribute to the discussions here so that they can become the first law. I wanted to talk about that aspect of the bill, i.e. 3. .................................................................. that............................................................................................................................................................................................ We know that the development of technology does not bring only positive results. One of the more serious is that it has become much easier than it once was to get out of child abuse material on the Internet as well as to distribute it. These fractures are now more extensive, they are more organized, and unfortunately they are in some cases, and many I would like to allow myself to say, more gross than before. The production and distribution of paediatric waste material are in some cases directly produced in organized crime. This is industrialized in a high - paying and industrial way, where sexual abuse against children is organized as strange and miserable as it now sounds. The situation requires that this law of penal law be updated in the manner prescribed in the highest bill. Minister of Justice. Thus, this law can accomplish its purpose. When misjudgment is taken against this law, it is seen that in the time of a massive offense, the defendants have had tens of thousands of forms and footage in their possession, tens of thousands. In some cases, very young children and very gross sexual abuses are involved. In the reality that there is a maximum of two years for these fractures, there is an eye route that the punishments cannot reflect the seriousness of the offenses. The line of punishment simply does not cover the largest cases, as it is shown in police trials today, and larger them in the sense that the defendants have so many such material. Because of the availability of the material, they have more than some years ago, and so the lawgiver has to follow through. I'm going to protect the conference from discussing what you can see in pictures like this and videos, but I know it from my former work. With the ultimate change. The Minister of Justice is offering us a penal frame similar to that of any other country in the north. I have personally considered only the development of legislation in the North countries in this regard, and we would be with this on the pair to the law there. It is also an independent point and an independent viewpoint that harmony is in the legal structure, since police are working cross-borderly in this category, such as in other fragments, and especially in the fragments that occur through the Internet. I would like to mention only the development of these activities, such as a special chat area on the Internet, which has made communication easier and while searching for such material. In these areas not only have children's abuses been shared but, in some cases, has been suggested that a child be broken in a certain way to watch when a child is committed to the child. The child's violation is, on the other hand, that there is sexual violence and that the content of a child's behavior becomes available to other offenders online. There are mainly children in a more sensitive position who are most at risk of such fractures and children, I would like to mention, in certain countries and in areas where this industry has thrived. I would also like to mention the general use of a smartphone as one factor, i.e. that the bacteria who sexually violate a child will be more likely to take photographs or videos of the fracture. When we think about child abuse, we are, I think, often with the mind of this organized smell of these offenses, but such acts of sexual abuse also take place against a child in his home and part of a close family member, even within the family circle. Sadly, the technology here has a shadowy side that bacteria in child abuse are somehow producing such substances as this for their own use. I am glad to see that we enter into the word of the law, that here it is suggested that the word '-o' be added to the 1st proverb. 210 a. The current wording of the law states that there is a penalty for obtaining or other child abuse, but now it is specifically indicated that the distribution of such material is also punishable in another way. There is only a different way of saying this than to earn yourself or to others. I assume that the reason for increasing the spread of the pedophile is the most important reason why people are in chat areas distributing such material as this for a large number of people at once, even to undisclosed numbers of people, and therefore the word even both of them is to be used in this way in return to the provision for their own or other ◯. A positive change is to provide a specific subsidiary so that if you are judged for violations against this law, you may increase the punishment by up to half. This serves their obvious purpose that the defendants who have been sentenced to such serious offenses are fixed. To me, it is simply a healthy, sensible, penalistic bitch. In the bill, we also find views that show how we value the seriousness of a offense, as well as the good in my mind and heart. In the bill, there are laws that have to do with the lack of criminal rights in the case of sexual relations among youths, girlfriends, e.g., sending photos to one another, that these behaviors are not being punished. A respectable president. I'd like to mention, now that I've talked about how happy I am to have this bill highest. The Minister of Justice has been presented here, in view of the fact that the underlying interests of children are immensely high from the better protection of the law, that I would have wanted to see these improvements become a reality earlier. It could easily have been, for in November 2020, the bill for a changed definition of child abuse was presented with a new line for such a offense. The bill I suggested got positive receptions. They had positive publicity on the part of all sources, and they also came from all categories. To be said, it was the highest. Of course, the Minister of Justice did not arrive at that time. I'm going to let me mention this because since then there have been court decisions and that's what matters because these legislation is not repetitious. V.E.G. A minister here suggests good and good and healthy and important legal refinements. It is my sincere wish that they become law at the Council as soon as possible. We all remember Kompás talk about two years ago and clearly demonstrated the need for a couple of Icelandic legislation to become part of what is commonly practiced in other countries. So there is no need to wait to win this case, which, though, became a test for the bill I referred to. I think it could also have saved the council work not to have two virtually identical cases to treat at the same time. They could have saved the staff of the Ministry work, and they could have saved their jobs in this house and could have led to these changes sooner. There are certain things that have been added since then, and I welcome them. I support the prime minister of justice, and I hope it will become a reality. On the second point of the bill, I'll have to express myself later. It is the factors that have to do with the decision of punishment and the viewpoint on the burden of punishment, i.e. when an offense is thought to be a so - called hate crime, that it should be taken into account by punishment. Then there is the scope of what the lawgiver defines as hate crimes, and it seems to me that the change there is clear that national origins are allowed to fall under it, and then this change in discrimination and attention to disability. I have to admit, I haven't really considered these factors of the bill, but I wanted to make the most of it. Minister of Justice, thank him for bringing in the bill here, and encouraging him. It is my wish that this case will be well discussed in the General Board of Staff, followed by the administration of national groups on the issues of pregnancy, full pregnancy, and as law. I believe that the change in child abuse is simply not to wait anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u100	Madam President. I'd like to agree with members of Congress who have come up to celebrate this legal bill as the highest. Minister of Justice here introduces the United States of Congress today and recommends, the change in general penalties in child abuse, hatred speech, and discrimination. Like others who have taken the talk chair, I especially rejoice that here is a bill for a legal adjustment in child abuse. As shown in the transport program at the highest level. The minister of justice is dealing with both technological changes, social changes, and the public's desire that the legal environment responds more strongly and more quickly to what we have seen in recent years, an increase in distribution of material that shows gross sexual violence among children. So it's a pleasure to see this bill today, as well as the matters of punishment here, which is long by this bill, and I support it with my whole mind. There are other factors in this fine bill, and I would like to introduce a change in the wording of nationality and whether it is a hatred speech that comes from ethnic or national origins, religion and gender characteristics, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, and other factors comparable. I'm very happy about this, and I think that this is where we are taking a good step and being comparable to the North countries when it comes to a hate speech and extending the law of the penal code of penalties facing hate speech. In this context, I would like to remind you of the bill of a change in penalties I made here on January 19, of the ban on the denial of the Holocaust. In fact, the bill given here was a reaction to the frightening developments we see in Europe where hatred crimes have increased, and hatred speech is also closely linked, based on Jewish spirit, Muslimism, racial prejudice, and racial hatred, as well as other crimes against other religions that have increased at an alarming rate in the European Council. It seems to me that this is also the case with this trend, and it should be welcomed. In this context, the annual report of the European Commission against racial prejudice, the ECRI, can be pointed out from 2019 C.E. It shows how much and rapidly crime - based on hatred speech, which we are considering in this bill, based on ethnic or national background, as well as on religion, gender characteristics, and that sort of thing. This bill, which is being measured today, is not only to refer to legal tradition in our neighboring countries but also to the international covenant we have attended and long ago it is time for us to enter our legal groups, such as to form an international agreement on the resistance of all ethnic discrimination validated by Iceland on the part of two countries in 1967 and became valid on January 4, 1969. This is a tremendous bill, and I'm not going to give my speech very long. I'm rooting for this whole thing, wishing it would be. The General and Education Committee will cause this issue to rise quickly and safely on its side, and that the matter will be handled well at the council, with the most important issues involved. Like what? Gunnlaugsdóttir For several years now, it has been urgent to deal with the unfortunate trend that has taken place in sexual abuse of children and the distribution of any form of child abuse. I reiterate my support of the case and wish for the good luck of a council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words about an aspect of this bill in terms of a change in the law of hate speech. These changes are made to address the United Nations Commission's recommendation on the removal of all racial discrimination, and they are effective. The problem I see is that this is not the change that has to be made to bring these matters into our system. The act of the law is the problem, but not necessarily the law of law itself. This law has been in the law for years, but the issues that have been investigated or charged, much less, and the violations of this law, are counted on the fingers of one hand. I don't think this change in wording will improve the legal status of people in Iceland unless it's done. Clearly, there is much work to be done, and the problem is probably quite profound and would be very happy to see plans about it. I'd like, for example. to refer to the information of the Icelandic Human Rights Office for the bill, when it was previously mentioned, regarding the fact that this law is that the offender does not even have to file charges. It is thus under penalties that it is often a condition for investigation and the charge that the offender is asking for it. It's not about this law. Even if we all witness a lot of hate talk in the community, even every day, there is very little announcement to the police. There's very little need for the police to record these matters, and I don't know any examples of it. According to Iceland's Human Rights Office, it has the authority to deny that the police have refused to take any indication of a violation of this law. So I don't think this change will solve the problem we face. I don't believe that this adds to the justice of people's rights against hate speech while the project is still being carried on. This may primarily be what I wanted to promote and encourage a minister to set out a clear plan to correct the project. I understand that the project is partially justified by some of the evidence of the only sentence I know of that has been violated by race or nationality that I believe, in 2007, that it is a very obvious violation and irreprehensible, and that it is based on the interpretation of the law, perhaps a problem that needs to be examined by itself. I'm not sure that there is a need for the coming of the council in this regard. I think it's a government project, and mostly it's the highest. Minister of Justice, to dive. The work of this law must be carried out, and the reason why it is not used, even though all of us know that there is a lot of hatred here. As the situation is today, it often goes unconcerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u102	A respectable president. I think this bill is a happy subject for the justice system in the country. This is truly a time for changing social outlooks, changing society during the information revolution and in Internet times. This bill also shows how important it is to monitor legal development in the North countries and international trends in criminal justice. This bill responds to a United Nations commission on the understatement of racial discrimination. I'm glad that the bill seems very good, and is glad to know that in a discussion of the articles, laws in the other four countries are being referred to, which is very good for those who will work with this in the future. It shows the importance of the norm - to - law union work. I think the cooperation of the police authorities who are investigating matters is also very important, so these laws will be given the motivation they deserve in the justice system and in the investigation. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer he gave earlier when asked about it. There's one thing I miss from the bill. A bill was proposed in November 2020 on the same subject as it appears to be. The bill, and it would have been normal to mention it and discuss it on a bill. True, it was without the article "When Children Send Their Movies Together, " found in the book of Numbers. c., but it had the same warrant, the same pattern of enforcing, and the same procedure as the burden of punishment. Here is a legal step, and it can also be stated here that the hatred talk goes beyond that of the other northern countries. The Icelandic legislation speaks of sexual characteristics, but similar laws do not exist in judicial legislation in other parts of the North. So we take the matter further. But both are of great importance to children, as well as to the hatred talk, and it is of utmost importance that Iceland accepts international agreements and that the study is globally important. I know that when Iceland engages in international activities, we can be the best in the world or at least Try to be. I hope this will improve the future, and especially with regard to research and charges in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u103	Madam President. I recommend a case that would be of great benefit to the entire public in Iceland and, if it were, for the state funds as well. There's a proposal for a interpretation of free health care clinic, which reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to start working on health benefits for all 40 years and over, every three years, without cost. Secretary informs the General of progress on work at the turn of Healthskis at the spring council of 2022.• Centers for Health Care Professionals that review various aspects of health care have long been used, especially by wealthy people, and officials in many lands are regularly assigned to such screenings. But me and the Icelanders, not a nation more numerous than we are, and we are well - off financially and with considerable sympathy, should be prepared to render such service to all the citizens of the country. The cost of the construction would, in effect, return to improved health, including health. with the earlier intervention of the occasion, a well - known fact is that the best investment in health matters is prevention. The sooner you can deal with it, the cheaper it is. Of course, it is primarily about the lives and health of people, the health of the people of the land, and the survival of lives. We have shown, Icelanders, that we can gather for a large task, including a large task. in the field of screens and vaccinations of the crown virus epidemic, which were doing very well and with general involvement. Of course, we also know examples of tests that have not been carried out, since defects in the health - care system have taken into account, such as those that have recently been discussed with cancer cells. Yet, we can see that this is possible. This can be done by means of interfaith and good organization and, of course, by the decision to do so. That's basic. During my prime season, I established a special Ministry Committee for Public Health. It was because I viewed this as an important factor for the whole community that it called on a special minister to follow it. In modern health policies, which have been approved for the year 2030, the importance of preventing disease and highlighting improved human health is strongly explained that this is not only important from health standards but also practical. By means of the public health programs in which people would be invited or invited to be screened every three years, there is not only an increased care for each person, who has the added motivation and admonition on what might go on and how to improve his health but also a chance to intervene sooner when disease or other health risks arise, which, of course, is of utmost importance and sometimes a matter of life and death. We, as those few, should be able to do this for all the people of the country, and thereby save lives, prolong the life span of the Icelanders, and also improve the standard of living, make people feel better by having a better look at their health, a better reminder of what may be done, and a better chance of reacting in time when it is needed. This will bring about a very special benefit to those who are less able to buy these screenings themselves, but it is already available for this kind of service in Iceland. And also, because the importance of looking at men and women in the form of bills may now be attributed to the fact that men have been less inclined to seek medical help or for help than women. This would be no least an incentive for them. Of course, this applies to everyone, regardless of gender or any other factors, except for the age of 40 years, to start at that age. It's not out of thin air. There we have considered examples from other countries where people are primarily encouraged to go to these tests once they have reached their age, when they are in their 50's. However, we keep that possibility open, specifically pointing to it, that there is reason to give younger people the opportunity to look for a screening if possible, and so may be requested by a doctor's approval, to be called at an extra screening time, i.e. not only every three years but these tests can be performed more frequently when specific circumstances require medical judgement. This is a way of thinking, including. In view of the experience I was able to deal with here from a well-organized screening and vaccination campaign by the retroviral season, a very large proportion of the people wanted to monitor their health more closely than at present, and in a very number of cases they would be able to intervene when needed, sooner or later. It may mean a lot of money so much that we are not suggesting here an operation that will eventually cost the taxpayers very much, but perhaps much more to save money, though the main thing, as I could before, is, of course, the health and life of the people, and to protect them. It is suggested that the arrangement be carried out so that those who meet the requirements may be offered to render this service. In other words, it is not expected that the Kingdom itself will accept all of this, even if it is financed by the state, but that it can be offered, they meet certain requirements, and the patients can choose where they go. I tell patients, actually, I'm talking about the public, i.e. that anyone who accepts the screening will be able to choose where he or she is doing. This, of course, gives rise to new opportunities to build up health - care services in Iceland; other opportunities for health care professionals and incentives to do things well, to offer services at a fixed price, as the state pays a fixed price, to offer this service at the price that the State considers acceptable but at the same time competes, to compete for a good service. I can see that this global operation can have a profound and positive effect on the field of health care and can have a bearing on it. So this matter is somewhat special in that it is positive in every way. You might wonder, " Why have we not done this before, but now is the time to act on it? ' We've seen that this is possible, and I don't think that there are many people who have doubts about its importance and benefits, and most people also realize the practicality of paying more attention to people's health and promoting public health, so it's a good thing in all ways. I hope there's a hurry-up at the council, and that the Minister and Ministry can begin as soon as possible on the transfer. I am aware that governments usually want to present their own case, and do not hesitate to accept the prosthetics that come from others. Therefore, it is presented here in the form of a synonym, where a health minister is assigned to complete the procedure and then submit the case when ready. To this end, I suggest that this proposal go to the World Health Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A storyteller. It's a good case for every reference here, and I'm a representative of the case. What I wanted to say, in addition to what happened. paritaprevir A brief account of an article published in the latest issue of the medical journal is Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnuga. It talks to Eiríkur Örn Arnarson, professor of medicine at the University of Iceland, who is also an expert in clinical psychology, where he proposes to screen for childhood depression in elementary school and to help young people who are showing signs of coping with difficult thoughts. The article will show how effective you can be by getting into the early problems that are developing during this massive time of breakdown in each adolescent's life. While this is a specific feature considered in this specific article in Eiríkur Örn, it is, of course, the same thought as we present, members of the Central Party, i.e. step in to save late health costs but, of course, to improve the welfare of the citizens of this country by increasing the chances of late exposure to serious illness by simple analysis and possible treatment of the early stages of the disease. I would like to interrupt the interview with the European Örn Arnarson committee, which says, by permission of the president: A youth depressed in 9th grade increases in political power. The gender differences begin, but depression is twice as common among girls as boys. At 18 years of age, it is estimated that about 15% of young people lived a major episode of depression. There is, of course, great work to do if we can arrange such a situation in many areas, but unfortunately, this is not yet a project that Eiríkur here describes as being reasonable. During the interview too, the president's permission says: ▪ It is a tendency to focus attention on those who have problems and to try to help them but less in order to prevent their problems from festering. This is the very essence of the subject, that we try to focus more on getting into early and preventing, that's prevention. Eiríkur Örn Arnarson speaks of this from psychiatry and screening all youths with the goal of achieving significant results in reducing the number of those who become severely depressed early in life, thereby reducing the serious consequences of late life. So does the President's permission: It was observed during follow-up a year after the course, to say, what the group had previously conducted as a result of screening - at least five times more likely to have developed a manic episode during this one year than the other sitting there. Those who did not have the study attempt to intervene at earlier levels were five times more likely to develop a cycle of depression. It just tells us that if these are the results that come from a fixed experiment on a group that, of course, is made that at some point all the people of the country, or those of the age, go through this part of their lives. If it is realistic to achieve as much results as this is described, it is offered, if you can transfer the approach to other aspects of the health system, to perform this procedure. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for asking the case and that I may be a associate of it. I think the thing is, if it doesn't run out now, then the government will have to get an opportunity to put it in its own name or to work on the project as it's suggested that it doesn't matter whether it's looked for financially, especially in the long-term financial interests of the state and businesses, and in the land's homes, or if you look to the health of the country, this case, it'll be realized, it'll pay you a lot of money to land and country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u105	A respectable president. I recommend here for a synonym for removing a pocket money system, not for the first, no, not the second, not the third time - the fourth time. With me on the case, there's a problem. Councilmen Ásundur Loa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. The suggestion reads: At the end of 2022, the Council of Social Affairs suggests to hide a social and workforcer to provide a bill for changing the law on the subject of the elderly, which ensures the removal of a so-called allowance system, and that a pensioner who transports a nursing facility maintains unsatisfactory pensions and reforms from the state's insurance agency. The objective of the bill must be that the elderly receive legal and judicial donations. Is it not surprising that when we arrive at the end of our last life, our life span, our harvest festival, after we have won and contributed to the community, should we not be allowed to maintain our dignity? No one's talking about people who have a history of mental illness, Alzheimer's, or something, and who can't really take care of themselves financially. Still, they have family members and others who may be able to assist them in doing what is right in relation to the services they attend for nursing homes or nursing homes. It must be possible to see the irony of old age, the harvest time of your life, and to ask for their money in the form of charity, as if you were a teenager or a kid at home with Dad and Mom to ask for a allowance. It's a slight disregard for older people. And let me ask you, how is it that I speak for the fourth time here? It should be clear to everyone that this is a fair and just case, and it must be the issue that it is absolutely forbidden to attack someone, even if you have to make use of public agricultural or private resources, that you should be taken away from both self - sufficiency and financial resources by this method, throwing in a man of some 70,000 bucks. More than a month: and just do what you want, look. You can't get any more here, the fine older citizen to use here as a service. A respectable president. We in the Gang of the People have been talking about this kind of people, just completely. We repeatedly speak about human rights and all that we have to say about human rights. But where are the older citizens' human rights when their life's work is taken and the payments they receive, whether their pay or their social security system, whatever else, and when they are old, they get allowances? The paper on this council resolution shows that we've already made this recommendation, and I've recommended this case for the past three years, thinking, during the last term. I'd like to say, by the permission of the President, that the older citizen's National Association has for many years promoted changes in the law on the affairs of the elderly, No. Since 125/1999, older citizens remain independent of their independence and financial independence, they remain at home. IV. The section of the law discusses the cost of aging services. It also discusses the involvement of residents in residence homes on expenses. When a person moves into a nursing home, the right of the person to a pension is lost. He also has to pay for his stay if his income is over 107,165 k. a month after taxes. If the individual's income was to go completely into 128,512 K. During a month, he may have the right to make allowances, which in the recent year of 2022, are at a maximum of 83,533 k. Hear, hear, an elderly city that has already won, spends the rest of its life working, inherit the earth, and return to our society, which all of us should be able to have, and may be proud of. Is it really true that this is the gratitude that governments send to these adults? Is this all the respect, my honored president, for our grown-ups, our dad and mom, our grandparents? I'm ashamed of the government that's acting like this. There's no other way to do anything else, a respectable president. When people are in a nursing home, the cost is considerable, and almost all of them get paid when they drop their pensions. As a result, in most cases people need to leave the allowances, these 83,000 jars. every month, enough for all the other expenses, all their expenses. This suggests that the government will be assigned to provide a bill that guarantees the autonomy and financial resources of elderly persons when they enter a nursing home and that the payment of residents in nursing homes will be changed so that residents will keep their pensions and pay directly for rents, food, and other costs of household care. However, the overall rules for health care provided in the homes will remain unchanged. It will be expected that residents could have the right to improve housing and the expense factors of individuals in nursing homes will be income - related and will fall for those with a low income. The people have repeatedly called for this. Stop taxing poverty. Stop taxing and harming people who are in trouble and who do not have much to do with each other. What kind of community is what we live in when we say, "Yes, we are one of the richest nations in the world, but we will still tax poverty. " Still, let us wall up people in poverty traps. Let us, though, show a lack of appreciation for what they have put in their lives's affairs. Let's punish them for being old. Is this the message, Mr. Honorable President? I say yes. The message is clear because there are actually studies that have been conducted on how people change into their behaviours in nursing homes when they are able to maintain their independence and dignity, when they have to decide for themselves how to pay and carry out their duties as they have done throughout their lives. In 1989, Sigurður Guðmundsson, director of Halldór, granted permission from the Ministry of Health and Security to change parts of Daltown, the home of the elderly in Dalíkíkík, to protect a service apartment. Halldór wrote a report to the Ministry of Health and the head of Dalltown in October 1990, several months after the test project was completed. The experiment was designed to allow the elderly to maintain financial independence. In other words, a respectable president: Maintain dignity, continue to be self - righteous, greedy, and proud. Four men and four women participated in the experiment, and the results were that participants in the experiment showed increased activity, increased social life, and more traveled into town. This experiment will likely lead to negative practices and premature deterioration of individuals. What is it, a respectable president, who is worse than having no longer a purpose or desire to participate? How difficult it is to be a grandmother, a grandfather, a great - grandfather, and unable to live for poverty because everything is taken away from you and you don't have financial independence, let alone a birth to it, because you are taxed in poverty - what dignity is it, and why is it good for older people who don't have the means to make their grandchildren happy, to make their children happy, to share? We're all generous. We want to give Christmas gifts. We are happy to have our birthday gifts. It is the purpose of our existence to give of ourselves and to make others happy. But imagine how many adults are completely forbidden by walling them so thoroughly that they get over 80,000 bucks! a month in allowances like any other kid in the house of Mom and Dad. In May 2016, a group of staff for the removal of the pocket money system, which was recently said to be six years ago, by the then social and housing minister, Harðardóttir Hardurddóttir, who has not yet returned his findings. Well, I wonder if this is the only group that's hanging over something for six years and they don't have anything to do with it. No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. In 2018, in response to the Minister of Social Equal Opportunities, it was found that the work group was won -- now, please, more honored President, let's note what was presented there in 2018 - was still in the preparation phase. The pocket money system has been under way for many years without any of the ideas being handled. In 1990 a comparable arrangement in Denmark was changed. Residents who lived in institutions kept their money but paid for it. This did not necessarily mean that they had more money between them, the nature of the matter, but it meant that they had financial independence. They kept their dignity. Thus, by this arrangement of interpretation, social and employment ministers must promptly review their allowance system so that elderly people maintain their own autonomy to as much as possible so as to minimize any change in their fortunes and ways when they need to have changed agricultural measures. A respectable president. We all know that it is difficult enough when we find ourselves in the place of our lives that we need to acknowledge our inadequacy to live alone, that we can no longer be alone, and that we need to look for help in new arrangements. Stepping across is difficult enough. It takes many adults a long time to cross that threshold. A respectable president. I hope we in the Gang of the People don't have to speak again for this simple fairness that older citizens have been calling after years and speaking to dead deaf ears. This is where I didn't have much sense of escape on my tongue, a respectable president. I had almost told my ears to the dead, but I think that these sounds just as good as the "smooth sound of that row" will be heard in this case. They just don't care exactly. I hope that the good old government, which was here during the last terms and seems to be still sitting, has a hearing aid and hear a good call in society and justice call for people who have to take advantage of agricultural measures elsewhere but who are not deprived of their independence, their financial resources, and are therefore able to be much more active in social activities and social life because they feel so much better. Finally, a respectable president, I'm going to refer this matter to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u106	A respectable president. Suggested proposals for the removal of a pocket money system are aimed at enjoying legal financial and independence for the elderly. Now, financial and independent is the human rights of all individuals. The lack of legal rights for nursing and nursing pensions will be considered almost violations of human rights. It's a question of whether it would stand in court. I think it's important that if the Council doesn't agree with this synonym, to hide the Minister of Social Affairs to provide a legal bill for changing the law on the subject of the elderly in this regard, I believe that the National Association of the Old Citizens is simply to represent the case in order to eliminate this kind of charity which, of course, includes their study of human rights as financial and autonomy. This kind of altruistic arrangement is so that when a person moves into a nursing home or a nursing home, his pension is lost and his allowance is distributed. It doesn't work because when he goes to a nursing home, he will, of course, pay for it, and it's supposed to be his own pocket, as shown in a paper with the Senate resolution proposal. It seems that this system is really not for the elderly, that there is more for the institutions they enter. This is a relief to them and is not a service to the elderly. This is an arrangement that does not need to be made. The report also mentions a comparable arrangement in Denmark, which has been observed in 1990. This did not necessarily mean that older ones had more between their hands, but it meant that they were financially independent. So the cost should not be high in this regard. This is primarily a matter of human rights and of respecting self - sufficiency and of securing the dignity introduced by an executive. You're looking at this matter, not inexhaustible. 32 years ago, in 1989, Halldór Sigurðsson, director of Dalvik, was allowed to experiment in order to allow the elderly to be financially independent. The result was smart, as shown in the introduction below. They showed increased activity, increased social life, more travel into town. This experiment is likely to result in negative localisation of traditional households, i.e. that the current pocket money system is negative, that it leads to premature deterioration of the individual. That's the cost of the government. The present system leads to government costs because of premature decay. It reduces efficacy. Of course, the whole system should lead to increased activity, increased social life, and increased quality of life. It shows how important this matter is. Also, how long the system has been with the people for so long. Six years ago, a team was formed, and four years ago, it was found that work was still in the preparatory phase. It had taken a group of members appointed to the then social minister, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, two years to get to the level of preparation and they have not yet returned the results. It's extremely important to get this thing started. I believe that if it can't be done now, the National Association of older citizens and older citizens, and the party of the people will surely support it, taking the case to court.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u107	A respectable president. Enlarge democracy and transparency in the treasure of pension, who is contrary to it? I recommend a synopsis proposal for exactly increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds. In my suggestion, Áslldur Ásthildur Lóa, Eyjólfur the Yearly Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson, go. The members of Philly's Cathedral. With the permission of the president, the synopsis will sound like this: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a law bill by the end of 2022 which has the objective of increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds. The bill hides. in combination with provisions that ensure that: a. Treasurers have the highest authority in the affairs of pensions, including those in the U.S.A. that the management of the pension fund oers for social meetings in accordance with the approval of the funds and the voting rights of the funds at a social meeting will depend on the espionage and calculate the fees of funds according to further legal requirements in the approved funds... I wondered, " How is this not already done? ' Why is there ever a situation in the pension fund that those who own them should not be their main directors? A respectable president. We have often seen what it's like when the funds are thrown out of money, where there's nothing to be done with it. There's a lot to go after them. Here in the past we were - we have a pension system set up around 1969 - that there were different things people could hear and the goals that seemed to have for the pension system at that time. At that time it was also so that here this so - called master rule, master responsibility, a different name of employers, where employers actually had a completely different responsibility than they do today. If someone had been harmed or caused by an employee, it occurred more often than at the employer himself. If I understand that correctly, given what you've been hearing over the years, when you're trying to get a full sense of these matters so that you know to some extent what you're talking about, it's been now. This master's responsibility, this employer's responsibility, she's no longer on the people. Business drivers don't have anything to do with our pension fund, nothing. They can be in their own pension fund and care for them, but they have no business in the general pension fund. ◯b. The management of pension funds is elected each year at the annual meeting of funds, c. Directors and executives in pension funds must not own a property or do business for their own accounts in companies that share the pension fund or in those companies that provide investments on behalf of the pension fund. Why would this team be inside, a respectable president? Because it's simply to prevent pure, smart insider trading. We know that individuals who have had big financial losses in this huge money have simply been bought in companies and then bought themselves as the market value of the companies rose, the nature of the situation, according to the fact that they had put lots of billions of dollars in them. A person even came and bought a lot of money and made a lot of money. But he was leading it himself. It's called corruption, a respectable president. It's called pure and smart insider exchanges that the person has actually created himself. The C-party of this synopsis prevents this from being done if it succeeds. Actually, I'm giving her a fourth time because there seems to be a lot on the mind to keep the situation going. According to the d- force, the U.S. Federal Department of Financial Affairs is keeping a record of the government's financial and confidential work and the head of pension funds. The E team reports that Iceland's Federal Office of Economic Affairs monitors whether the interests of the management board and the head of the Department of Pension are compatible with the rules for their work. This is an attempt to ensure a specific check, a firm exercise, to prevent easy access to our large fund, which now counts at $7,000 billion in property and money. In a paper with the Senate resolution proposal, it is just stated that I have previously given this matter three times, and I am doing so for the fourth time now. This proposal suggests that the Allied Council agree to hide financial and economic ministers from giving the Allied bill to a law that has the objective of increasing democracy and transparency in pensions. We're talking about the provision of securing funds for themselves increasing power in the affairs of the pension fund and their funds, matters that directly concern them and the interests they have by protecting what law has been forced by law through the pension fund every time they've been paid. I may not necessarily go into the report much more, but I would like to encourage you to study it. After the contracts in the spring of 1969, the head of the Pension Funds has generally been appointed to half of the employment unions on the behalf of paypayers and the trade union, but without the presence of the public funds. I've actually got a little bit into what's going on here, and I just want to point out that it's strictly different to be forced to pay off a certain percentage of the money that's so called the together insurance fund, that we don't have anything to say about the way he's going, how he's thinking about him, and, as shown in other cases that are going to measure, how our property rights of our stocks are totally, completely trampled on in name insurance. Why is it that older people who now accept pension payments according to their pensions are not allowed to enjoy what they've been paying all their life? Why are surviving children and offspring not allowed to enjoy the fruits that the person has been putting to the test throughout his life? Why is it that the greatest part of it just disappears into the hotel, a respectable president? We call this a clean and complete possession tape because despite these big targets for a particular generation, like us, should be done for generations to come - we just must not cut this treasure of pension. If you're going to do something about the pension fund, you're going to leave it to the other person who's paid legalized in his country to this pension fund for the rest of his life, if you're going to give it to him what he's been paying for, now it's just going to all go down. That's the message we get. But they're not true. There's always a man in your place, it's not more complicated than that. That's about 200 billion bucks. In a year that flows from employees into this fund. They have to invest for 1,75,20 billion dollars. per month. Their structure and how the managers of these funds have rolled around with the money they have nothing to buy, is so remarkable that you just have to say nothing. We knew it was well over 20 billion, the chief building here in Iceland two, three years ago. Over 20 billion. We know that if someone finds out that this meat pot bites it so hard, it hangs so hard on the redness that it will be impossible to tear it off unless the palates follow. That's it. It is always good to get into the gold chests of others and to marry a hook on someone's hard work, through someone else's career, and not be smarter than foreign experts to invest in money because they don't rely on themselves to do it, many of them. A respectable president. I urge you to read this. I'm not gonna waste my time reading this to you, because I know you all enjoy reading this. Just go to the Council. We've got all the senators there, and we can find our bills, where we can find our interpretations, where we can see who sent reviews. It can be observed. The General Web is a good web. He simply, it is convenient to use it for those who trust in him to get on the web and do so. Now I will refer to this good case. The Economic and Business Committee, and it certainly hopes that such a fair and just thing is meant to be that those who themselves are to come to the greater part of the management of these funds. I'm hoping you don't have to make an order for this for the fifth time, a respectable president. What is behind governments that prevent such problems from taking place when the 72nd par. Constitutions of property rights? Whether to weigh more on the pension fund or the actual Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144? A respectable president. I know it's forbidden to be betting here in the General's deliveries, but I'll bet on the constitution anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u108	A respectable president. I'm a co-sponsor at this proposal to conspire about increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds. What I just want to say is that money buddies don't have the highest authority in the affairs of pensions, including That the management of pension funds is not a kin of members, carnivores alone, is a complete scandal in my opinion. It shows what kind of community we live in. That this system has not been changed for a long time by the government and this institution here demonstrate an amazing lack of courage. This appears to be one of these systems that cannot be changed, whether it's the quota system or any other system that's been installed here. In the spring of 1969, the same year as I was born, the current system was established. This was so that the management of the pension fund was generally appointed to half of the employment community in the hands of paypayers and the trade union. This system is still at people's hands. Now, 52 years later, the same system is with the people. The evidence is that payers have always represented themselves in the management of the pension fund, that they have historical explanations and based in the beginning of the master responsibility - well, the master responsibility is the concept of today's damage rights regarding employers' responsibilities. The master's responsibility is likely rooted in the cabin. In the stable, the men registered themselves, where master's responsibilities were. Farmers had to guarantee that the people who were registered to the farm in storage had plenty to bite and burn. The fact that we are still in an arrangement that is likely to be an inheritance of this is a complete scandal. That transparency and democracy are not involved in the pension fund, which involves the retirement of employees, is something that is quite different and cannot be reasoned in any way unless the system takes care of its own. In the back, there's a special benefit that's being defended. There's nothing else that's back there. The fact that the pros and cons are in the management of these pension funds just has nothing to do with it. It doesn't matter. I may be taking too much into my mouth, but they're protecting their own companies. Pension funds are required to protect the interest of funds and none of them. Who is the best person to care for the interests of fellow treasurers? Yes, it's the treasuremates themselves. To know how to invest in these funds, a superior person does not need a superior class that knows better, a master's or a master's responsibilities or what we call it. Investment is no small thing. That is 17,520 billion a month, a total of 200 billion a year. These are enormous powers, and they are positions of employment that representatives of trade unions do not want to give up. I can't say that the unions in this country are participating. Of course, they have not demanded that democracy be increased, that authority be brought to the Cities where they belong, and that they exercise authority. I challenge the unions to take this matter seriously and to see to it that funds partners have this supreme power and that their interests will be cared for in the future. There is another factor that this also leads to, but it is called internalization. They're investing with huge money. The proposal's C team involves the fact that the head of the head and manager of the pension fund must not own a property or do business for their own accounts in companies involved in or in the companies responsible for investments on behalf of pension funds. It is such a rule that in the year 2022 it is hardly necessary to have a pedestrian decree of legalization. The fact that the head of pension funds is doing business in the stock market at the same time they're investing for tens of billions, 200 billion a year, is a complete scandal. I'm just saying, I can't say anything about this and how much this case is being recommended for the fourth or fifth time, and I challenge the unions and the general public all to accept this proposal and put in the reviews. I hope that we may be able to get reviews, such as in the blood glucose case, which is a very important matter too, and they'll be at least over 100. This is an important matter for the survival of older people and those who are paying for the funds today and for those who will enjoy these future rights. It's all in the name of increasing democracy and increasing transparency. Who, then, should object to this, except for those who are interested in it that it will not be a further democracy and not a more transparent transparency?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u109	A respectable president. I want to thank those who spoke. Councilmen. In this ancient Danish house, which was built and drawn by a Danish architect in the late 19th century, everything is the same well. At times, a person may feel as if we are standing and working here should adapt to the house rather than the house should be adapted to us. These are old views, and we're here to change old views into fresh and new viewpoints. What has been discussed here, the allowance system of older citizens, which is, of course, below all caves, abducted by capital and self - sufficiency, and given to some kind of elf or calf, is part of the same thing as the pension fund, the fund that the laboring unions of this country are legally committed to an upper pension. What is that? Why do we let this happen year after year? Why is that? paritaprevir Sæland Goland to measure for these things for the third, fourth and fifth time, this is the name of the old gentleman case: What is that? Yes, this is what Jónas Kristjánsson, editor of DV, blessed is his memory, called the slave spirit of the Icelanders. It is this submission to the supreme authority, originally to the foreign power that was needed here through the Dark Ages after humans lost their independence and their confidence. And what is needed for this to change? We've reached, let's say, over our own country, 75 years ago or whatever it was, but confidence is something you take from the kissos, from the universe, and acquire. Now I'm going to challenge those who are listening, not only in this room, but at home with the older citizens of this country, who are offended, to take now all as one outside of space the confidence needed to restore their self-control and independence and the right to their pensions and pensions and to take control of these things and their choice of life and pension. Really, it is just a matter of mentality that must take place. There are the older citizens, older citizens' organisations, and various national groups. There are thousands and tens of thousands of people and women here in Iceland who have the authority to take their own business, their own finances, into their own hands. There is one group in the General Assembly fighting for this group's rights. His leader is here to recommend one case after another called Madame Inga Sæland, why. Senator. We who are sitting in this hall belong to this class, from the highest. President to what? Councilman and oddly northwests, Reykjavík, south, Reykjavík, and Reykjavík, northwest. There is a member of the National Congress that is missing, which includes the number of members of Parliament who are struggling to care for and sit in this way. But I say again, Let not the light of bondage, of which Jónas the son of Kristjánsson spoke, and write of him with reproach, be our perpetual fate. Let us take this, agree to take what is ours and what is ours, and have rightly laid down and recommended it as convenient for us, as we trust. Period. Period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u110	A respectable president. Here's another council proposal that I recommend, justice, fairness, and probably a matter, a concierge proposal for housing security in local and nursing mothers. The movers with me are the group of Falcons, okay? Councilmen Ásundur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to prepare and provide a law bill that states the following: 1st Governments and rural groups will be obliged to provide elderly patients who have undergone performance and health assessment, residence or nursing space within 60 days of evaluating the possibility of having the righting of such measures. 2. Education and health assessments should be published no later than 10 days after the application procedure. 3. Elderly persons who have stayed for more than 10 days in a hospital without any specific treatment will be provided with a living room or clinic. 4. A husband's wife or spouse should be placed in an institution for the elderly, regardless of whether he or she has had an employment or health status, he or she has the opportunity to spend time with a household member. A person gains the right of his own home as an institution for the elderly. Ministers provide the bill for this subject at the fall Summit of 2022.◯ A respectable president. A report by this council decree, which I propose for the fourth time to the next, says: The number of nurses waiting for them increased by 60% at national level between January 2014 and January 2018. At the same time, the number of those waiting increased by more than 90 days after nursing room by 35%. From 2014 to 2018, the mean waiting time after nursing space ranged from 91 days to 116 days. I'm not going to talk about all these numbers, but I'd like to mention why the people's party repeatedly calls for relief and correction for adults. It is simply because it is needed. And I feel very sad if the only law-blind individual at the Allied Congress of Iceland, along with his party, sees this, but there is a need for this. We've talked about a flow problem, which I don't think is a slight term of the graduation problem that has existed in a land hospital where more than a hundred seniors were left to be met, and an army and tweet, because there was no farm plan long after they were ready for graduation, long after nothing could be done for them in a land hospital, despite everyone's accepting it. Instead of getting more space to receive more patients who needed help and those in charge knew well and acknowledged that this was probably the most expensive means available in Iceland, the managers wanted to hold a large number of older people who would take up space in a land hospital. But then there is the attitude, and the disregard for it is so unbridled that it has been tolerated year after year, and the problem has only grown. That's what's at the top. The minister of finance has had to say that there is too much sacrifice for the elderly. We're more comfortable and we're a lot ahead of ourselves, and this'll blow the state box if nothing has to be done. You might say that if we were to be able to own up our pensions, as I was measuring before earlier, we wouldn't be so upset about everything and everyone when we were adults. But we have the right to receive a ministry, and it is sad to know that adults who need medical attention are simply denied it. You're too old, my friend. So it doesn't take to hang up on you anymore. You're just a burden on society. Your textbook is not favorable because you no longer pay taxes. A respectable president. I have a wonderful father who is going to be 92 years old. Less than two years ago, I brought him home to Olafursund because he could no longer live alone. We did not realize that he had needed our help much earlier, that he had had to have someone interrupt earlier and put his arms around him to protect and help, to provide the security and warmth he needed. My father doesn't want to carry his bones anywhere else but home on Ólafsundur. He hasn't waited for 90 days or 100 days or 200 days or 500 days, he's waited more than 700 days to get into the nursing home Hornbreck at Olafursund, this whole time. He was asked last day: Ási, tell me something, how do you feel about being in Reykjavík? My good father said, "Oh, I don't think it's anything special." Twice he's received a letter from the Academy of Education and Health, which says he has a right to rest, first in 2019, again in 2020, the fall I attended back to Olafurs, but he has not yet received that period of rest. I don't know what this cute, respectable President is. This old man has paid his taxes and duties back to his beautiful beach all his life more and less, and he doesn't want to be anywhere else. Here in Reykjavík, he says he only sees houses and cars, but at home he sees his fun and the mountains and beautiful waters where he's been fishing since he was a little boy. Who would not want to take care of his parents who have a certain desire, and you know that they will not live long? A respectable president. Many times, and not often, but almost always, we see that this blessed system is not human. We're class, we're talking on paper, we're not individuals. The separation, dissociation, separation, separation, and separation of a couple who have lived together all their lives, diseased one, and has moved into another rural society. We got a story of it more than two or three years ago--forgive, president, it might be that it has been a long time since, you've become so confused because time goes so fast here at the council, it's so fun here, it could be four years since--that woman, this has become a magazine, has been sent all the way east to Húsavík because there it could be broken down, you see, but her husband lived in the south. It's a long way to go when you want to be with your wife and hold her hand, and interact with your love through all your life, having to go from south all the way east to Húsavík. Hence, this point is included in the suggestion to give a mate, someone who may not yet be in a position to receive some means of aging or in a nursing home, an opportunity to accompany a loved one without breaking up with them in the final years of life. It is a malicious system of things, a structured system that takes no account of the individual's feelings or feelings. I say, "Where have we come from when I repeatedly recommend fair and righteous matters that do nothing but rejoice and make things better for everyone? ' We're not a specialised security force in the Gang of the People. We have often said that there are other forces that can handle it. We do not need to be advocates of the rich. They can take care of themselves even if we want to do whatever they want to do to pay their streets in such a way that they are doing well. As long as they're not cheating everything, as long as things are going right and right, we'll stand by all because we're a party to the people. We say to the people first, so to speak. We stand with everyone, but most of all, the party of the people is a spokesman for those who need help, and it's clear, more honorable President, that older citizens and poor and poor families need the people's help. It is with your action in the last election that you have become this fine army, six of the people, who will in no way yield to the requirement to give everyone better and more righteous lives, better and more righteous society for all of us than for some. I say, we have to stop the elderly from being thrown into a waiting room somewhere, in a waiting room, or kept somewhere, just like stuff, just kept somewhere, and the way it treats. Let's make sure our people are safe for the rest of their lives. Make life as comfortable as possible. Like what? paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon says: Let's give them the harvest festival that's supposed to be over the years. Give them as good a life as possible, not blocking, not crowding, not choking people in distress. It should not be ours to do that. Be kind to one another. It's fair and just business. It is for governments to bring in the agricultural resources and the space needed. It's a government business. They need labor to care for these jobs. Why? Yeah, we don't have time to pay a decent salary. We need to attract people to these duties. We need to build up everything that needs to be built so that we can offer these living arrangements and first, and lastly, we should never tear loved ones apart when they want nothing but to hold hands until death separates. A respectable president. Finally, I'm going to refer to this synopsis proposal for housing security in local and nursing mothers. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u111	A respectable president. I am proud of the proposal for housing security in temporary and nursing staff. I believe there's a measure of human rights involved, and I can tell you why. If we just look at the last number, number 4, where the General concluded to hide a health - care minister to prepare and provide a bill that decides that a home man's spouse or family partner should be placed in an institution for the elderly, regardless of whether an older citizen will be forced to stay at a home with a husband or a wife who has the right to a home member of his own household, older citizens who will be forced to stay at home when they are not at home. All I have to say is that the spouse of an elderly citizen who may have lived for decades with his partner - that people are forced to stay together because the spouse has to stay in a home. It is quite remarkable that this is the case. It is a purely human right to make sure that residents of the aging world can remain in union with their mates. We can imagine the quality of life that a person gains by being together in a nursing institution because he or she goes through the pressures of separation because mates cannot be together when others go to a nursing home. These are human rights, and it is more than tears that these rights have not been guaranteed. It is pure indistinguishable. Regarding the other factors under which the elderly will be provided for a home after a performance and health assessment, and no later than 60 days after the evaluation, it is also a self - approved human right rather than a waiting period for days, months, and even years. This is truly remarkable. This is a spontaneous social right, a state of human rights for which a state of well - being would want to be represented. I can take an example of the party's status and the waiting list. As the report shows, 114 people died waiting for a nursing room in 2014. By 2015, 141, 178 were on a medical waiting list, 183, 2020, 118 people on a waiting list were killed. This is the situation today. More than 100 people on a waiting list are dying each year and never have been allowed to live in a nursing room. It may even be reasoned that this is an untimely death, that people are not given the services and support they have in life, and that it leads to death. I know there's no research, but we can just imagine being on a waiting list and never finding out that and how life would change and how life would change for people who get to sleep. The number of the elderly is increasing, yes, true. I'm on the budget board, and it's over there and I'm getting into this in the fundraiser, but it's not supposed to be an expense. It is the quality of life and the evidence of a good society, a rich society, and a well - being society that the elderly live longer and that they are meant to be goals in themselves. It is important that we as a community live a carefree life and that the harvest of life becomes days of joy, not a waiting list that leads to separation when one mate needs a nursing home and goes to a nursing home. I'm not talking about him not supposed to have to wait in the lists. That's what this is about. This is probably a human rights issue, and it is important that there be a good progress on a committee and that the health minister prepares and submits the legal bill of the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u112	A respectable president. I am proud of the missionaries of this well - being discussion that has been followed by sad stories of amazing inadequacies, and particularly disrespect for those who have worked all their time, paid all their taxes, worked their home-based benefits for decades, and then left nowhere when it comes to retirement, and, as the end of their lives draws near, let's say. Or like a cot. A senator declared that a 92 - year - old man is not getting in the house, has been waiting more than 700 days before his country club can invite him to stay. And the answer is over and over: No, unfortunately. The answer is no. The fact that separation is designed by society and married couples for many years and decades is separated because a husband and wife need to be cared for and then they simply carry forced transport across the country. Is this a decent welfare nation? Just not at all. But these sad stories reflect a certain attitude. They may prefer that while men, such as those described here, have waited more than 700 days for a rest period, aren't they just waiting for the rest of the person to last? Is that not the cheapest solution? And it may be possible to see from perhaps two square feet [2 sq m] in a cemetery. Or is it coincidence that a certain respectable rural society here has decided to plant its senior camp next to a high-voltage station, which in general is not considered a prescription for a lot of health benefits? Is it trying to shorten people's lives or to avoid the uncomfortable expenses of older ones by some form of work? I hope the answer to this is no. But it is plain to see that this is by no means acceptable to what is available. And, yes, all of this costs. It costs to send someone to a hospital or to a home where care is needed. It may be that those who were written off 20 years ago and were to be on their way to rest, thus not having to take space from the others, may not have to leave. And, yes, the nation is getting old. What was once called the 70's is now known as the 50's. What was once an 70 - year - old is today's 60 - year - old. It is in a way mirroring; improved vitamin farming, improved life expectancy, health systems, increased knowledge, and science will only mean that men and women stop working by 70 years of age is just becoming obsolete because people can really benefit much from society and work, have health and strength and should do so. The attitude presented here is, in fact, the attitude of the old times, in the old house, the attitude that we need to change, because we realize that this is out - of - date and that is a time error. This may be done by the two members of Congress who were here for the last three years, the Party of the People, became a group of six members, tripled from what he was here in two houses to six. Is he going from six to 18 to three, and might have the power to turn this thing around with a good man's help? But it takes four more years of waiting. We don't have that time. We wish to the highest. A professional minister takes this seriously as he puts it in good faith and realizes that the old attitudes are too old to be of value to us. Let us move into the 21st century and the fact that this is not a decent situation. We can resolve it quickly and safely, and we will expect to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u113	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of ownership and the inheritance of pension. I came a little bit into it earlier when we were talking about our pensions, our pension fund. With me on this suggestion, Sæland ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! Councilmen Ásundur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. The General concluded to hide financial and economic minister from providing a law bill for the end of 2022 which has the objective of ensuring the right to the possession and provision of the people of pensions and to authorize the inheritance of pensions. The bill will make sure that even. to: a. People can choose between paying required pension savings in funds that provide relative rights practices or paying on a special account where they can choose how pensions are harvested, b. At the time of death, DNA rights go to complete unions and children; heirs can choose whether pensions will be paid out or if the rights will be transferred to heir. According to the proposal, this proposal was submitted to the 151th legislature and I'm measuring for these, of course, property rights for the second time. I guess I don't have to say that the proposal did not succeed at the 151th legislature. When the pension system was set up in the wake of collective agreements in 1969, the general understanding of the payers was that the required payment in a pension fund would guarantee the remuneration rights of the remuneration, but surely there have been another age and time would reveal everything else. Since then, the holding rights of the people of the pensions have been repeatedly limited and conditioned, either by law and by regulations or by approved pension funds themselves. People in general have little choice about how their pensions are productive. That's what the management of the pension fund is the most important thing. I was just discussing how the governments are appointed to the Senate arrangement that I ordered just before. Pension funds have made mistakes in investments, and at times they have made mistakes at high cost to their funds. In such cases, there is a chance that funds will require change or be limited. A seamate who disagrees with the pension fund does not usually have a choice but to vote on which union representative will be appointed to the head of the pension fund or to change the pension fund. At that time, representatives of the professional team are also in charge of pension funds, but to them a financial society in general has no resources. Some pension funds have approved the votes of an elected member of the management board at a top-priced meeting where clients can vote. Yet, they are an exception to the rule. It is often a failure to inform treasuremates of the rights they have to control the fund on the basis of a trust fund. It really doesn't matter where you look. It's almost like the social security system, it's such a fucked up system. It's just that way. First, we are led to believe in 1969 that saving to older ones is the most natural thing in the world, and now we are making a big contribution, and even so, we are not going to be affected by social security. We're making some money from there when we're retired. But surely the age is a second, more dignified president. The good head of the Department of Versatile Society of Reykjavík, Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, at the time, told me that the law on pension had been done well over 100 times just since the 2008 collapse. I'd rather think it was 1969, because this is all too many changes. But they don't want to change anything when I tell the bills to change the pensions. That's interesting. They're not exciting enough, the changes the people's party recommends, because they're all for the benefit of the funds owners themselves. We are always trying to secure the rights of those with the money. It's not a popular, respectable president, as you can see. But anyway, I'm not going to go on much more than just point out that it's not normal, as per the Constitution of the Constitution, 72. ... that once you've been forced to pay something and you're led to believe something special, such as in this case that you're gaining someone's right and this is your savings and this is your money, we must be in good faith that there's something in it. The government can't always come to make more and more of it and to take more and more of it, or to care more about our assets in the funds, as we know so well. In 2008, the financial collapse of the financial crisis lost some 600 billion that we know about. It is not all bad; of course, some investments have also gone well. The irony of it is that we pay our bills and then we ask for a loan, because we earn a certain right, and then we borrow our own money on a yoke. This is irony, a respectable president. How ironic! It's so twisted. But the basic point is this: What we have suggested, each dollar, is that the 72nd par. Constitutions. Unquestionably, she is to be our collection of funds to the elderly and to ours to move to the surviving heir. We're supposed to be able to leave behind at least what we've earned into our country faces, earned with our own hands. How on earth can this be done, a respectable president? How can we take our own money? It would be nice to see how the sea count would react if we were only going to scratch into the combined resource of the nation that is the fish around the country, saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, we're going to return it home. I really think it would sing high in the chorus then. And it is absolutely clear that then the governments here would enter to protect the interests of those who have taken away our resources around the country. A respectable president. It's obviously the minimum thing to get our own money, like I think it's the money we've invested in a pension fund through our careers. It's fairr, more righteous, and more natural than anything else that our ownership rights are respected and that we get to stand out after paying in this pension fund, more than at the same time a little sour because we didn't have anything to say about it, just be put up with the wall and say to us: Hey, my dear, now just you pay a pension fund, whether you like it or worse, because the government said it, because we're going to take away your independence and we're going to tell you what you're going to do, thank you. Finally, a respectable president, before I get even more excited about this - and there's enough left, it's so fun with the people's Flokis today at the high-end Council in this most beautiful chair of the country - I'm going to refer this to the good and to what it means. As soon as I hope I don't have to recommend it for the third time, and not because it's gonna fall behind, but because it's going to be approved at this council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u114	A respectable president. I am proud of the proposal for Congress resolution on the rights of possession and the inheritance of pension. The aim of the proposal is very clear, i.e. To ensure a special right and a means to a person's pension. This issue is about certain factors that are of immense importance. Who owns the pension money, who owns the money that employees pay for a pension fund? Is it the employer, the union or the employee? The unions and employers are in the management of the pension fund, and these funds are devoted to investments and yielding. Granted, employees can influence this through their union, those who sit on behalf of the union, but this does not change the fact that being the employee, the treasurer, is the one who owns these payments. This is what he pays of his money, of his personal resources, to a pension fund, and he is the one who is supposed to have control of the money, that is, he who is going to make it happen. It is also worth asking, of course, this question that everyone should know about: Who should benefit from the pension? Yes, it is. It's the staff. But is that always so? We can take, for example, an investment in the pension fund, which has been extremely questionable, and it has actually been made a huge mistake in the investments of the pension fund. The fact that employees or people paying off the pension fund can make arrangements for the money, choose between paying for an obligatory pension fund or credit account, show who owns the money. This custody of the money is fundamental to all the payments in the pension fund, the huge sum that goes in there. The pension fund invests between 17,520 billion a month or 200 billion a year in total paid by cashmates. There are no small coins in Icelandic society, enormous amounts of money. A report with this proposal for a hearing is stated, by permission of the president: Although pension rights should be protected by the legal rights of the Constitution, it is not possible to define pension rights as property because of the poor custody of donor mates on pension rights. This proposal is designed to replace it and to provide the funds, those who pay pensions in the pension fund, the custody of the payments, and to ensure their rights and rights. This is closely related to a case presented earlier today, no. 49, about increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds. Both of these cases show that the national pension system does not serve as sufficient financial resources and does not custody of the financial institutions, neither in terms of democracy nor the election, nor in charge of pensions, it is by no means sufficient, in no way guaranteed. It is true that this is really a tax system with vague agreements for later reimbursement. That's what this is about. Though people pay in a pension fund, they may not receive the rights and the benefits of the funds they pay in the fund. It's because of that. that authority is simply not sufficient. They're not loyalty. Who can best be trusted to care for their interests? Individuality itself, to care for their own interests. Employers do not, and the unions do not. The fact that unions and employers, the employment organization, are in control, is an old age's heritage. It is an inheritance that we have not yet come out of. We can trace this story all the way back to the safe house when the Icelandic chief class cremated over the common people and simply oppressed them. Although we were under Danish rule, it was the Icelandic chief class that ruled the whole government, we were simply far too far from Copenhagen. These two cases show that democracy has not been far enough in Iceland. They also show that their funds are to have that authority. It's as simple as that. Of course, this is to be a defined privilege in a way that funds partners can arrange for them, can decide whether to pay in a mandatory pension fund, or in a special account where they can choose how the pension works. That's what you're supposed to do with that money, just as with your special pension savings and the death of your mate, you can have this or a child full of dead funds. I think it's a great deal of rights. I believe these matters should be examined together, No. 49, which was recommended earlier this evening, on increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds, and on this subject, now under discussion, about the property and the inheritance of pension. Both of these cases, if checked at the top, show that the Icelandic pension system is completely bankrupt, and funds are not sufficient for it. This will only be done by bringing the power to the funds, to those paying the fee, to those who will later enjoy the fruits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u115	Madam President. There are big words here that the Icelandic Pension Fund is bankrupt, one of the strongest, at least Third of the strongest, that system in the world. Let it be between parts. But here is a proposal that, in fact, goes on to hide the financial and economic secretary's rights to provide a bill that will overthrow the basic concept behind the Icelandic pension fund system that is based on collective agreements made in 1969, which is to build up people's rights and guarantee them pensions after a career but at the same time developing a commitment between us so that there will be a time to intervene and provide assistance when something should come up. The pension system is divided into two parts. On the one hand, it is the insurance share, and that is what is suggested to be overthrown, and thus undermined the rights of employees. However, it is a specialism or special pension that should be made a principle. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: What is the result of his feeling that it has already taken away the most successful Icelandic earner of the insurance of the Icelandic pension system? And counting. A senator that it is likely that Icelandic employees will follow him in that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. To answer this simply, it is not taking alone or anyone else or anything. It's as simple as that. Those who pay in the pension fund - they're taking money from people's wages, they're reducing the income of people's income every month by obliging them to pay for a pension fund. That's what's being done. And who is in charge of these pension funds? Yes, there are unions and employers. That's what they're doing. Of course, each individual would be able to make his own money if he was obliged to do so. We have the special delivery system, too, and it's just going great. As shown in the report, pension rights should be granted to the protection of the Constitution's legal rights, but they can hardly be defined as property. They're paying off into funds that others are taking care of, and others are doing investments, and the people paying the fund have nothing to say about it, very little, hardly nothing. This is a matter of ensuring the ownership and inheritance of pension, and this has to do with democracy and transparency in the pension system, which is almost nothing. Those who agreed on this in 1969, 52 years ago, and the same system still exists. We live in a very different community. We have a financial system that is hardly comparable to Western countries. We have insurance here. Why? Because of the pension fund, to guarantee them 3% a year's yield. It's all about the whole system. It is much simpler for people to control it. It's simply not right to say that professional representatives are better off investing than people themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u117	Madam President. This place is so fucked up. A senator gives no answer to what I asked of him. They're suggesting to overthrow the insurance system that has been in the pension fund for the benefit of all the employees in Iceland. Then we're on the side with the special property funds, where the genetics are secured, etc. But your insurance policy is very important to you, and if you take a step back, I'm going to say it, okay? A senator, that there is one of the most serious maladies ever made by Icelandic employees. It is quite different from talking about how to increase transparency, increase democracy, and increase the impact of paymen on the management and fruitage of the pension fund, making knots so that Icelandic employees will be more or less paid without the collective insurance of pensions and the security that they offer when there's any problem, including disability. Don't mess it all up, okay? A senator, and try to deceive people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I would like to point out that this proposal for Congress, on the rights and genetics of a pension, includes the option that people can choose between paying mandatory pensions in funds that provide the relative rights process or paying special bills. It has a choice. People are supposed to be able to decide what to do with their money. That's what this is about, that there's a selection in the system. As shown in the report, some pension funds offer a ridiculous pension penalty, but they are in much less. As an example, the pension fund of traders pays 60% of the rights of a cashmate. It cannot resist the belief of claiming that this system is so sacred that it must not be modified for financial gain to a creditor. It does not measure up, and the fruitage of the pension fund gives no evidence that they are so good in their investments that they give the money they need to make. It is predictable in the future that the system will fail as the nation grows older and for other reasons. There are many examples, and it is not to say that this system is so sacred that it cannot be changed. It is well established that the present system is an example of special care in this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u119	A respectable president. I'm gonna pray. Óli Kárason Kállson to stay, not to leave the chamber right away because here we are discussing matters that have to do with such a major disagreement of the one here within these council walls. There are many differences. It is primarily economically, and it may also represent a different understanding of the laws given to us by the people in the country. And now the person here will readily admit that, like many of his generation, he felt that the high tax environment we have grown up in Iceland for decades would be to ensure that certain contributions were made at the end of the line, let's say, a job, a paid job. Let us, then, continue to make certain payments each month. Then, as I had understood, the other funds of pensions would come which we are obliged to pay in just like a sauna. If our savings are in some particular place, and the employer pays something for the savings every month related to our salary, I've never understood that, except that we must own our savings, now or the wife who cared for the unpaid job at home, most of the Icelandic community. When people of my generation came to realize that some changes in these developments had been implemented and interpreted as being different, one came to the other. From my team of peers, many have gone to Portugal. They're protesting with their feet. I am sorry for these sheep, for I am sorry for the sheep, for I am left behind by those same students and my friends who are angry in foreign lands about what they consider to be traitors. Perhaps it was not clear enough in advance, or the paint of the day, as if when banks in Iceland were allowed to mortgage our common property, which is the fish of the sea around the country. It was only a long time later that men realized what it really was, perhaps because they do not have the strength to be in the same room for discussion as they were at home now after they were available. That's why I say to a man like what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason: Shouldn't we join in in taking steps to calculate, not take to trift, but take to work out what terrible consequences might be the result if our ownership rights in our spades are made to ourselves unmistakably, so that we definitely have a spari pig, or our heir, our mate, or the baby, after we fall away? Is it really so that it is thought that the basics of the system in Iceland are just going to be all over it? I don't think at all. The primary issue of this 7,000 billion headquarters of the pension system could be debated because of the generations, which may be partly gone. But the real rights, the basics of the Constitution and of our community, the democratic community, must be such that what you put into your own savings is yours and nothing else, now or whatever happens to you. And the social security system, the insurance agency that guarantees you this $260,000 call a month or whatever it is, your collective service to our vast tax community for so many decades. They're overcrowded by a $2 60,000 bill. and then their pension pig when they don't get their pay check at every month's end? Certainly, there can be a roof on what humans, the best placed in the community, should be able to hold. But now we're still here on the same basic theme, we're thinking about the people on the enemy side of a knife or spoon, with an empty refrigerator in the middle of the month, struggling to live, let alone living with dignity. How pleasant it would be to hear the explanation that this is impossible and that the very foundation of the community's well - being is being constructed in the manner discussed here! I've never understood that other than that we have our contribution from a insurance agency. We've been working for it for so many decades, and then we've got this pension fund if we've been lucky enough to be head over such a job or to make a deposit. That may be a later matter for many who have lived a long time. But this is what I wanted to say. I'm one of the carriers of this bill, and I've never looked at it as different than it was to be a fundamental justice case. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u120	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of local payment on deposit in a pension fund. With me on the case, there's a problem. The members of Flock's people, Áshildur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Yearly Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The General concluded to hide the financial and economic secretary's law by presenting a bill before the end of 2022 that tax payment is done by deposit in a pension fund, not on the payment of pensions. The amount of money that the change will bring to the State funds will be assured to be spent in the interests of increased well - being. The proposal suggests that this body of Congress proposal was introduced earlier to the 150th legislature and the 151th legislature, and now for the third time, I am making a recommendation. The motion is now made unchanged. In recent years, the wealth of pensions has grown to some 6,240 billion dollars. at the end of July 2021 - 6,240 billion, no less. This is based on information on Iceland's Secret Bank and not on the media station. Insurance accounts are over 230 billion dollars. every year. Every year, we pay in the country more than 230 billion dollars. into this booth, into this pension system. In the year 2000, 22 years ago, the pension fund's holdings fell to 80% of the gross domestic product, but by 2020, the share was made into 194% of GDP based on the economics of pensions displayed on the Lands Association of Pension, Pension. All of this can be examined there and so much more. It's a concern, a respectable president, how much of the pensions are in Icelandic business life. Their governments are representatives of unions and trades, which, in turn, appoint executives to represent the funds of the companies involved in themselves. So there is the connection between the owners of the funds, the funds, and those who care for the financial resources of pensions little or nothing. The result is that a large proportion of Icelandic enterprises are owned by inactive persons who operate according to a legal requirement of fruitage rather than by their own funds. In recent years, pension funds have been criticized for investing in risky companies, paying superpaying executives, and supporting businesses that are totally drenched in by funds. But so what? The schoolmates have nothing to say about it. All they have to say is squeeze them out of the legalized money to fit into these pits. Paying taxes on payment on the pension fund as indicated by this proposal can help to prevent the growth of the pension fund from being abnormally large according to the size of the economy. There is a shortage of funds to address the needs of the Icelandic welfare system. Can't we all agree on that, Mr. Honorable President? We're still taxing poverty, not taxing poverty. I'm not going to tell you, because the people's party says, "We're never going to tax poverty. " We say, " Stop taxing poverty. ' Let us stop messing with those who may be remembered in the community. The health system is standing on the feet of bread. The health benefits of social security are inadequate, and the gap between the rich and the poor is increasing each year. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the income and use it in behalf of the people. The taxation of deposit in a pension fund instead of now is a complete painless operation, and it is the means of large increases in government funds, big increases, and at the same time enables it to support the welfare system without cutting public income. In accordance with local regulations, deposit in the Pension Fund and reimbursement of employers are not taxed. Instead, pension funds pay the tax paid to pensioners. Thus, the taxation of the funds making up the stock of pension money is postponed until it comes to their payment. As we know, we are now taken to a pension fund. As soon as we get paid, we're paid for an X crown in a pension fund, but it's not taxed, but it's all in there until the time comes when the funds are removed. Hopefully, people are getting older. Hopefully, they're removing money because of age, not because they're sick. Of course, it also happens that very many people get involved in accidents, very many get sick, and start taking them out of their pension fund. But that tax is taken from them. It is taken from that tax when the individual is actually at the point of having an increased need to view the local payment that has been paid in the past as part of the savings he receives since when he finally takes advantage of it. Instead, a government fund would likely be raised by some 70 billion dollars. More of a arrangement through the pension fund than he does today. Does it, of the more than 240 billion that we are paying in this fund every year, do we do so if we pay the standards right over there? That would greatly improve the interests of many. The people's party is fighting off. We're fighting the taxation of poverty. We're fighting that everyone has food, clothing, and shelter. And what better could it be than that we do it through the system we have, and should we have implicit and irresponsible, and without the involvement and involvement of the state of state, more than the word? It's really amazing how this bank tax is dropped for billions, how almost no hunting fees are paid to collect from our resources around the country, our marine resources. It's really funny. It's funny how a business company hardly knows its money and would need a lot of money counting machines to figure out how much they have if they sold all the assets they've invested in for our common resource. It is amazing how the government has had masked interest in money in the country and at the same time turned the blind eye to those in the community who are struggling. As is the case today, not only after the two - year - old Covid's pandemic but in the wars and disasters that we see in which the Russians have invaded Europe's independent states, Ukraine, when the world's economic situation is often broken down. Inflation has reached 6.2%, and poor people only become poorer. Why in the world did we not, more distinguished President, accept taxation right away when we pay for the pension money and bring it into the state fund up to 70 billion dollars. at the same time, which could prevent taxation of poverty and begin to cut down on these abhorrences, chain - related impairments that would last? Consider, for example, when Reykjavík's Business Association said that their birthday had been so good that it crossed the threshold that she had to get over so that a pensioner could be raised - indeed, raised, and much of it was fun. But what would have happened to the crowns that the funds received from their company? It was all picked up, more or less all severe in the form of impairment, chain-acting impairment of both the social system and the social security system. These systems support each other to squeeze and break every overlay that will filter in somewhere, so that the person who gets paid in 240,500,000,250,000 will be sure to get paid. in a month, a crown cannot be built and can't be built. These are the people, a respectable president, who is taxed full feet. A good independent said to me: "I don't know, Inga Sæland Land, that everyone wants to pay their taxes and contribute to the community. It is every man's pride to pay taxes. At the same time, do I say: " Is it the pride of a parent when the government's funds require tax pay from the person who doesn't have salt in his grass, and can hardly give her children properly to eat out the month? ' Is it the pride of the person who is put in that position? I say no, a respectable president. Feeling unwell at the top. I'm not going to have any further comments on this taxation on the deposit in the pension fund, because that's basically saying itself. We can use this funding to promote the health system, increase the numbers of living and nursing people, stop taxing poverty, cut down the cuts, and I don't know what or what. Why should we not be allowed to enjoy these fruits rather than further expand this pension fund so that after two, three years, not 6,240 billion in the funds, but perhaps 7,240 billion? When is it enough, Mr. Honorable President? When is it enough? Finally, I'd like to refer to this synopsis proposal. The Economic and Business Committee. I have no faith in anything else but that everyone will see the opportunity in how great this case is, this council proposal, if they would just take the time to read it, study it, and perhaps some of them would have been with us tonight to participate and know what it is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u121	A respectable president. I am a proud carrier and a supporters of this proposal to come up with an interpretation of local payment on deposit in a pension fund. In recent years, as noted earlier, the holding of pension funds has increased to a large extent and, as we noted, 6,240 million. K. at the end of July last year, according to the information of Iceland's Federal Bank. Inspire payments are over 230 billion a year. In the year 2000, the pension fund's holdings fell to 80% of the gross domestic product, more than 2020, in our meeting year, the ratio was 194%, according to the interest rates of pensions found on the Lands Association of Pension, Pension.is. This is an enormous increase from 80% of GDP in 2000 to 194% in 2020. In fact, the report shows that there is concern about how much the pension fund is in a commercial business. The link between the owners of the budget, funds, and the head of the pension fund is small and absent, and the result is that a large proportion of Icelandic companies are owned by passive partners who operate according to legal requirements but do not want funds. Here's a problem in Icelandic society or business life and company environment. The concern is how much the pension fund is and therefore, for this reason, it is only right that tax payment should be done in a pension fund, not on the payment of the pension industry. There is very solid evidence to support this, since the government funds were originally used and could therefore be used on their own grounds rather than trust in pension funds to raise the money. Since the pension fund has less money in investments, it is much better to take the tax in the first place. The argument that I've already crossed is that it would reduce the activity of things a little. The money would then be more useful to needed improvements in the Icelandic welfare system. Another important thing to remember here is that this does not mean a relative loss of the fruit of the pension fund, not at all. They have less in their hands than when paid out is tax freedom. It's quite normal that the pension fund that goes into investments has less money between hands and uses it, has already paid its taxes, and then uses the funds to invest, and has paid off without paying taxes. It is also important for state funds where there is an increased need for investment in the welfare and health systems and, for example, the need for investment. could use the money to handle the social security impairment system when it comes to microenergy and pensioners. So this is a very important matter, and this is the third case brought here tonight which attracts the pension fund and shows again how important it is that a complete review of this system be made, and it take into account the interests of the funds, the interests of state funds, the interests of commerce and the interests of the Icelandic financial system. Well, that's what it's all about. We have absolute, I don't say absolute monsters, but we have a system that is way too big in our little Icelandic society when it comes to investment every month and every year. That is why it is important to start winding down this system, and that would be well done by paying taxes during deposit and not payment on pension savings in the current system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-01-44.u122	A respectable president. A noble conniving world and a nation looking upon us, hopefully. I'd like to put a few words together. Here in a pita, one of the officials of the greater part came, scolding us in the Gang of the People for wanting to shut down the insurance system in the pension fund on the presum that it would collapse. Then we're talking about now that we're going to tax down payments, etc. I'm gonna put it in context, talk about both things at once. Let's just say that a person who has 500,000 bucks. in a month's salary, which is now not very much paid, pays at 75,000 dollars, considering that it is 15.5% that go to the pension fund at each month's conventions, 11.5% as a professional fee, and 4% from the employee. If the tax is paid for, which is one third, then 50,000 will be dropped by the person. a month in a pension fund. And just so we can figure out what these numbers are, let's just give the person a pension fund for 40 years, which is not abnormal. He starts paying for a pension fund about 25 years old and 65 years old, he's put in his savings fund for 40 years. After 40 years, about 3% of the interest in the person in his pension fund, after paying taxes, that's probably no tax, 82 million. That means in 15 years, he can have 455,000. in a month or so, even more, since he is growing on what he is doing at any given time. He may have paid for more than 40 years because those who start to pay 25 and don't take out their pension money until about 70 years have paid for 45 years, and that's why the amount is even higher. That was about 3% interest. Let's assume that the interest was 4% during this period. That's 131 million, making it 900,000. a month in pay for 15 years. If there were 5% interest during the period, it had 213 million and remember that it is interest and interest on top of what we're talking about. At the end of 40 years, he has 213 million worth of $500000. a month's pay, making it 1,200 thousand dollars. a month in pay for 15 years. Is this unrealistic? I don't think so, because no pension fund has received less than 5% of the year in the last 15 to520 years. I suppose you can't get less than 3%. If there is to be something left behind in this so-called social insurance fund, then it can be assumed that the individual would enjoy a 4% interest, and the difference between 4% and 5% would be 100 million, which the fund could have in this so-called insurance and the individual would still receive 900,000 bucks. per month. It would be inheritable, because this is the money we've saved in life and it's unfair that they disappear like dew before the sun, and nobody gets anything if the person falls from time to time.
