ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the House of Booths for Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson to be absent in the near future. A letter has also been received from Lilja Rannveig Sigurgeirsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, and Logi Einarsson that they cannot attend meetings at the next meeting. Today, therefore, at Armsman II takes up the list of the movers in Southvest. "Kristín Hermannsdóttir, but the 1st deputy of the lists has announced premonitions, 2nd Vice of the Church of Greece. "Iða Marsibil Jónsdóttir, but the 1st deputy has announced an instigator, 1st Lipper of Pirata's Art in Smoke. n., Linya Runn Rún Karim, and 1st Reserver on the Norwegian Union list. "Hilda Jana Gísladóttir. Linya Runn Rún Karim has taken her place before at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u2	The Kristín daughter of Hermannsdóttir, the Iða Marsibil's Jónsdóttir and Jana Gísladóttir have been investigated and agreed but have not taken their place before in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution has to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u3	Kristín Hermannsdóttir, Iða Marsibil Jónsdóttir, and Hilda Jana Gísladóttir have signed their vows to the Constitution and are welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u4	The General Work Programme expected a previous financial discussion to be on Tuesday, March 29, and Wednesday, March 30. Now it is clear that this will not work, but it is seen that the discussion will take place on Tuesday and Wednesday next week, April 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u5	The President has received a letter from the Food Minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 484, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 542, the Ministry's responsibility for violence and its consequences, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A letter has been received from a social and workforcer requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 543, the Ministry's responsibility for violence and its consequences, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and the question for covering. 583, of the charges made to the Department of Health for the State's Decisions of Human Insurance, of Áshil Hannah Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Wood, Food Minister, Social and Employment Ministers, University, Industrial and Neony Ministers, Minister of Justice and Ministers of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u7	Madam President. Governments in many Western lands now address the economic effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its action, in fact, to various levels. President Biden of the United States described at NATO that food shortages could be expected in the Western world, and finally, there is a debate about food security, a case that has been on our side of great minds. I hope now we get serious talk about it. How will the government respond in this regard, and what are some of the many effects of this situation? For example, I understand that most of the concrete iron that has been transferred to the country, the vast majority of it, came from the White Russia. It will take a bearing on the construction market and possibly on real estate prices in Iceland. I have already discussed the energy issues and the importance of the government's response to their production and search for more energy than also by reducing, even temporarily, charges on fuel. It's the highest. Prime Minister ready to make such a promise? In an interview with the Business newspaper, the Eldur of Ólafsson wondered if the State should buy raw goods to protect the country from the events in that area. He said that he assumed that the National Security Council and the government had a clear plan for the necessary raw. He just assumed, must have. My question to the highest. The prime minister is this: Do the National Security Council and the government have a plan to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u8	Madam President. This is an important matter. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson will record this, and it will require a short and long - term response. In regard to short-term reactions, there is work to define the necessary supplies in the country not only when it comes to food security but also when it comes to other factors; drugs, parts, such as winter. A senator mentioned, important for manufacturing, as well as oil. This evaluation is conducted regularly, but there are some areas where we are more sensitive to it than to others. For example, I can tell you that we can see only about 1% of the grain we consume. Of course, it is what we now see that this invasion can have a profound impact on the world's production of grain. From the available supply level, we do not necessarily expect a lack of that area until next year, 2020, and we have that information from international institutions in this field. This also raises questions about government long - term policy. The government that is now seated has arranged for us to promote domestic food production. Among what has already been done is to increase in support to garden farmers, for there we see to it that we are importing much more of the products we consume, unlike what happens to produce when it comes to dairy products and meat. Of course, we have short - term tools to ensure adequate supply in the country, but the long - term policy should be that we are increasingly self - sufficient when it comes to food production to ensure food security. It involves a lot of access, that I think, for Iceland, to look at more food production here in the country, not just for our own consumption but for our exports as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u9	Madam President. I'm happy with the policy as high as possible. While this is what the prime minister describes, the problem has often been that policy does not always follow measures, so I ask the highest degree. Minister: What action will the government take? Where does the National Security Council work to take action in this regard? And when filming, we will discuss the importance of food safety and increased food production in Iceland, which I truly agree with. Prime Minister, this does not come automatically. This calls for support, increased support to Icelandic agriculture, and elimination from the policies and measures that have been severed in recent years. It also requires action to form in the field of energy. This calls for the reduction of the enormous curses on energy supply in the country. But I also wondered if it's the highest. Prime Minister exists for at least asks the Icelandic state to buy raw goods to trust our position further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u10	Madam President. National Security Council has started work to define the criteria of the necessary resources in the country of all the factors mentioned above, whether they are food, medicine and medicine, oil, parts and so on. Therefore, hope for an emergency should be established as to which supplies are needed. The government has shown that it is ready to take various measures to cope with unexpected events, such as those present in Ukraine, to form in an additional way as we set up an added support for food prices as a result of rising prices in order to try to support domestic food production. I previously quoted for long - term dating and increased support to garden farmers who I believe are not allowed to relax even if we are resorting to short - term action. When it comes to a specific economic impact from this crisis as a result of depression. As for the rising oil prices, I feel that this is first of all an incentive to speed up energy exchange but I also believe that it is important that we meet these consequences with measures directed against certain groups, not necessarily flat measures that are evenly distributed, but just such as this objective of action. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u11	Madam President. Mckinseyr's new report shows us the reality of the health system and its needs over the next 20 years. The report confirms what health - care professionals, their users, and we in the management situation have been saying in recent years about the health - care crisis, but ministers have responded with claims that enough is done, that there is something wrong with a more ongoing system and that workers have to run faster. The key results of the McKinsey report are that the demand for health care will be expected to be increased by 1◯1.2% per year, mainly due to demographic changes. If substantial measures are not taken by land clinics and the health system as a whole, it is predicted that workforce will increase by approximately 36% and around the cost of 90%. The need for space at the land hospital alone is expected to increase by about 80% to 2040, corresponding to approximately 50% more space is expected to be available when the new Landskeeper opens in four years. We in the United States have called for more perspective and for the human resources and facilities of the system to be better reused so that the waste will be reduced. There must be more cooperation within the system so that projects are transferred from Hospitals to other health institutions. But now it is as if the government's claim to stay at clinics all over the country is the only thing that gives us a reduction in service to patients who, of course, end up on the floor of the Land Hospital. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister to what action he intends to take and is requested for serious answers, the highest. Minister, not long discussions about what has been done, since obviously what has been done has not been accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u12	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for giving me the opportunity to take this fine report for our discussion. She brings out a lot of important things like that. A senator crossed. This is a zero-point report, this is a field-of-view analysis that tells us what the situation is now. Like what? A senator rightly said that this is about A 2% increase in demand annually. If we do nothing, then the need for bed space will increase by half from the 740 swarms produced when we repair the therapeutic core. But why are we posting a report like this, like a scrawl analysis? Yes, to react. And what do we do? We need to meet the human needs. We have a national authority on education and design. We need to take the focus of the hospital. We need to put the first phase of the service more into the system, and I agree with that. A senator says that we need to improve our cooperation with other health - care providers. We need to maintain a schedule in the building of nurses, but we need to do better. We need to increase significantly, and we should have started much sooner than we have started increasing home nursing, increasing support to people at home, and risking the disease of older people. We are to help people to live a longer life as they want and to stop making those decisions at any age. It's very well put in this report, and I encourage everyone. Senators interested in studying these matters and health issues and what our challenges are for the future - because we all have to put together to make this work - to study this wonderful report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u13	Madam President. I think the highest. A health minister hasn't quite heard what I was saying. But the situation is that the government has standards for health care in all parts of the country, including Land Hospital. At the same time as the government demands that health institutions gather together, not controlling more staff and not maintaining the necessary services, but the government of the health system of the great estates that have been experienced in the past few years. You can't say: "We need to be, but we always do the opposite. V.E.G. Minister was chairman of the budget board. He knows about it with crowns and pennies. He knows what this means. When it is required to draw it together, it can only be answered by reducing the number of employees and the number of services. It's simply that there are agreements in progress, but the government is not ready to provide funding that comes, e.g. the actions of the nurses who fell in the husk contract domains. [[The president calls.]] This is not to be taken into account in these medical institutions. [[The president calls.]] I don't know how to get it. A minister sees the idea of running a basic service throughout the country with this continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u14	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator of these questions. They are very important to the financing and to the limited resource of human resources. I'm going to say the word. Senator. We need to consider what better work hours are like, for example. coming out. It's obvious there's nothing to go beyond shift groups in this context. There will be no postmortems for health institutions 2023 and 2024. It's very important. However, I would like to point out that, because we started discussing this report, it greatly highlights what we need to improve in our ministry. To the core role of the hospital, that means what? That the hospital can do what they're supposed to be doing and do it better and use all other human beings in the system. That's what this is about. [[The president calls.]] I can't go any further for now, but we'd have to take this discussion, and we'd just have to hold the report here at the Senate Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u15	President. V.E.G. The minister of wood spoke to Visa recently about why the government has yet another voyage to postpone the extremely important human rights issue, the possession of drug abuse doses. The minister said, with President's permission: ▪ It has been suggested that there must be more preventive measures and other measures in the field of health before we go to develop and chase Portugal, to which men have been pointing. The minister later repeated during the interview that there were no available resources without explaining what options are needed to stop punishing people for using drugs. These excuses are the highest. A minister helped me to see that they were quite different from the above excuse. A health minister and a member of the Supreme Court. A minister brought, which was that the staff he appointed simply needed more time to improve the definitions and regulations of the bill. Nowhere did he mention lack of treatment options. When Pirata's case of crime was canceled, including... Of all the candidate members, the year 2020, the party was claimed to support the crime crisis, but not now because the Pirata case was not difficult enough. So when a former health minister made such a similar statement as ours, it ran into a committee a year ago, and now we hear excuses in every direction as to why again and again, all of us seem to agree that it is harmful and has failed. Once again, one of the most vulnerable groups in the country will be waiting for justice. My question to the highest. A minister is simple: Is it not just best, is it not only honest to stop this premise and simply admit that this government will never take criminal drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman of the question. I think the answer to that question is, "No, that's, I don't think, you don't have to make those statements. " Now he's not a health minister and he's not an expert in this field. Nevertheless, I was asked about a reporter, so something has now been left behind in this world, i.e. The matter is on a schedule. They want to talk about it, not only in kitchen jars and workplaces but also in the media. And this was one of the many questions the reporter asked me. To tell you the truth, I studied the matter a while ago and have felt that there are many interesting things that happened in Portugal. A man associated with me wrote his final essay on this case up at the university and came to that conclusion, was very positive to the fact that crime - related problems - after talking to some people who were working in the hiding, including With experts working to find missing youths, the individual concluded that the resources available here were not enough, they were fewer, and they were not as good as offered in Portugal. The conclusion of this report up in the University of Iceland was that it wasn't time. I read this report, this article. I found her interesting, and there I answered with my best knowledge of the matter, being a health minister. On the other hand, I support the health minister 100 percent. He withdrew the issue because it was said that there was a lack of consultation. He says about this case that he wants to have it examined more, get more consultation, and that's a good thing. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I would have thought it a bit thin to answer the reporter like that, but it's fairly obvious that I support the health minister in those actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u17	A respectable president. Just to explain it to the highest. Minister, because he does not seem to have it quite clear, it is quite different when it comes to the time of the forced bill. Health Ministers, who are being reduced human rights, impair them, and then desecrate consumption doses, where human rights are being increased. It's not quite the same thing, except that, of course, since 2015 we've had this case on the agenda, have this case right here at the council, been under discussion that you need to stop punishing users for consumption. V.E.G. A minister has been in the government all this time apart from a few months. Where are all these therapies at the highest? An inside minister speaks of the importance of being there? Why hasn't it been signed up yet? I might reiterate for the highest. The strategy we now have is to punish young people. The options we now have are setting up a record for them. The options we now have recognize are the highest. Minister himself not to work, the forward party admits not to work. [[The president calls.]] What prevents us from punishing sick people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u18	A respectable president. I wasn't comparing the contents of two cases here, I was just talking about that if you think it's important to talk in agreement and say that it's important in one matter, then there must be another thing to do. That's what I was pointing at. I agree with that statement. A senator says that we have not been particularly successful in our current policies. That's why we're supposed to look for ways to do it better. Perhaps the answer to this loud plea is why. A senator simply said that although Pirats talked a lot about it, there was not enough work to be done. Maybe that's what we're doing right now, trying to do. I've been hearing Porta's council all these years calling for some quality practice and securing shapes and processes, so maybe we should just do it, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u19	Madam President. Privateisation by the bank, which the Icelandic taxpayers restored at high cost and sacrifices are in full effect. She's been critical a lot. What is noteworthy is that according to polls, the lower percentage of the Icelandic nation does not want to sell banks for private payers at all. Both the left green and the advance team have their policy to promote the formation of a community bank, and they're positive. It seems that a majority of the Icelanders have come to realize that personal banks are constantly going down and at high cost. As an example, in 1970s and in 2011, 147 of the world's banks were affected. That banks, and often many at once, get into trouble three to four times a year in any part of the world and have to search at the hands of the taxpayers can't be a good system, as Sir Mervyn King, former money banker of the United Kingdom, said, with permission: Or, in other words, we use today the worst version of a banking system that exists, so all our other systems will simply be better. Therefore, it should be obvious that a community bank is a major step toward decomposition in the present system. I'd love to hear an opinion. Prime Minister on the question of whether it is desirable for the Bank of America to be converted to a bank of society and whether it will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u20	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that it is our policy in our left green that the Landsban should remain in our realm. So there is no such scheme on the part of the government. However, it is our opinion that it is not necessarily necessary or convenient for the government to have as much of the financial system as it really is today, and that is why we have undergone an operation to sell a share in Iceland banking. Regarding the community bank concept, and because of it. A senator specifically asks about the National Bank on this matter, and for some part a bank in the state has certain obligations to society: When you think about this community bank model, as we have seen it developed in other countries e.g., it is often due to local interest of local people, as we simply know from the savings system as it was originally developed, where it has been established a financial agency established by the services of its environment. I would feel that we were desirable in some of the legal environments, which in some respects have become more strict because we have been implementing a very good and important European principle, but in some respects do not allow for these little ones in the financial system. This may be the challenge we face, i.e. How we can make sure that the smaller ones around us can flourish in a system that still has clear demands and strict rules so that we do not become involved in them. A senator named here, that we're seeing a bank go under and be damaged by his community. And I just want to remind you that there is, of course, a completely different law and order that we now live in, but we lived in 2008 at the time of the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u21	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers, it was good to hear that she feels the same way about me in these matters. But last week, a part of Iceland Bank was sold, and a great deal of criticism has appeared in the trade process, and I have met many people on the road that are furious and also very disappointed. Only after that will we know who is buying the bank that we had in need, with considerable sacrifice, after an unintelligible mismanagement of the two owners. Trust in banks is low, and there is a danger that the government will follow the same course if the process is not more beneficial. It was a big mistake in my opinion to sell as much a thing as you can see in a closed offer. When a secret is so nationally important, it is all you can do to worry. Many of us had hoped to the highest. The prime minister would become a minister of a new political era, but this privatization indicates that Iceland is still controlled by capital owners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u22	Madam President. Thank you. A senator back there. I'd like to remind you that part of Iceland's bank was sold here at - Well, when was it now? It was last year, wasn't it? About 35% share and in it took approximately A $20,000 show. So we've achieved the objective that this company is undoubtedly in a more distributed holding than any other company in Iceland. This item was now sold in a so - called bid, and I have hoped that the Bank Office will, during business renovation, publish information about who was buying it. Already, who bought the biggest things because Icelander himself has published information about it. Now the government's second - largest shareholder in the bank following the state has become the richest money fund. I agree with that. A senator in charge of these matters is supposed to be transparent. It is the role of the Agency, which is certainly in a length of time from the political authority to ensure that governments are not involved in this process. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this institution is to submit to the general guidelines on transparency, since these issues are of public interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u23	A respectable president. It is a joy to see that the Agency party take the initiative in the government to set the fishing fees on the agenda. The chairman and vice president of the party have spoken very clearly. They're going to raise hunting costs, and, a respectable president, the argument is also clear. It refers to excessive economic conditions and increasingly increasing the resources of the fishing industry in other branches. So this conversation is suggested by the media. It is also the government market, and the situation is that it is a better candidate for raising the fishing rate, as mentioned earlier in this symposium. The opposition to this, however, is in a familiar place. V.E.G. The secretary of finance was asked about this last week at the council of the United States Chairman, and listening to the answers was the most intriguing. He recited the general taxpayers of seafaring companies as if they deserved some special credit for paying taxes, such as other companies and the people in the country. Besides the delusion, it is not familiar with the fact that hunting costs are not conventional taxes but a price to catch our fish all. He also seemed overwhelmed and even overwhelmed by the problems of his class and the ministry, even though they are known for their extremely creative work and great intelligence when it comes to creating fences and failings in the system of older citizens and desperates, not to mention the many - step system of tax. More than that, it was interesting to hear him grumbling about the forwarding party's ideas about the word superabundant. That term seemed to him to be strange and impenetrable, impossible but to conclude that he totally rejected these fine ideas of the team of fellow workers. So I ask: Is the head of the advance party agreed that it is so complicated to push the idea that the country's people will get a higher share in the superintendent that it is? Is it possible, then, that the forward group will act on this national battle with the opposition, since the independence party will continue to be in dire need of protection against this fine case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u24	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's Sigmmer for quoting here so carefully in my speech at a party convention. In fact, since he had started discussing this chapter on fishing and fishing, he might have gone into what I also said and then explained in magazine interviews. But I welcome this general interest at the restoration of our case. What I have said, and shall explain again to what. A senator, I believe over the next ten years, the resource will bring in a amount of water, but the profits of that operation will grow considerably, as reported by Sveinn Agnarsson, et cetera. who appeared last to us. I believe it is normal that part of the increased interest will go to the owner of the resource, the nation. That's what I was doing in the mountains. On the other hand, I've explained this with the fishing fees, because of that. A senator says, and I've heard others say it, that I've been talking specifically about that they should raise, that it wasn't what I said. I think, for example. that the percentage there is a burdensome hair for an ordinary company. I've been talking for years about the fact that the fishing costs need to be divided, i.e. Also, in terms of public profits, not only in a fishing business but also in other potentially successful businesses. That's what I've been talking for. I heard a minister of finance, even though I did not listen to all this conversation at the council last week, trying to suggest that there are also other ways to go. I've been talking about it, I haven't been talking about raising the fish costs on all the workers because it can't be done. I want to stay in the variety. But there are truly companies in this sector that are more freer than many other things we allow in this system, the legislatator, to make them profit significantly when they do well, and it is natural that a larger part of it flows to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u25	A respectable president. It was interesting to hear a word of the highest order. The minister of wood and the head of the forward party because I think it must be the public understanding of people in the community that the forwarding party, especially by the word of the vice president of the Party, has been planning that it should be raised the price for getting our fish all out of the water. Now, however, there is some extra misunderstanding, that this needs to be done in some other way, and that it goes through the tax step. This is a direct application to the highest level. Secretary of finance said here at dawn. So I'm going to allow myself to repeat the question and maybe get a slightly better definition of that at the highest level. Minister: When it comes to the overreaching and increased government demand, since it does not come through the hunting fees, he cannot make it clear to us - because it is a great deal of talk that it is acceptable to rule over the seas in the land - how he intends to do this and not refer to the situation as it will be in ten years, but whether he is willing to work now with the government stand to reverse it and create the peace called after? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u26	A respectable president. Hv. A senator raises his voice here. That can be fine with chapters. I've tried it sometimes. However, his band has been talking about going to an auction and that is the way to get a larger share in the nation. That's not cool. Senator. This method has been tested in several places, all of which have been abandoned. So it's not quite easy. What I've been suggesting is that it's simply an additional income tax level to get more of the profit that comes from using the resource to the owner, who we are. It may also be thought that the reconciliation will include setting up a clear resource directive, which I have also spoken for, and the forward category for many years. So, I'm sure there are many things we have in common about our goals, but I think these two groups are quite different, so you can't come up here and raise your voice and say, "Just bring them on this road. ' [[The president calls.]] Because it's not the same way, not necessarily. [[The president calls.]] But I'm ready for the conversation. That's exactly what I said at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u27	A respectable president. The effects of Russian invasion in Ukraine are widespread. The world's food security is threatened, both at home and abroad. There's a lot of concern about the chain effect of the invasion. The situation was already bad because of a pandemic and is now being added to the trayful stream. Icelandic food production trusts in important exported resources, such as the food source, food application, and oil. The report provides security in Iceland from 2021 on, with the permission of a president: It is probably the type of disaster that is most likely to be able to quickly stop the import of food. The same report reviews the consequences of lack of food in this country. If everything goes wrong, then there is a cessation of production in egg, poultry, and pig culture as well as significant reduction in milk production and cattle and sheep culture. So the situation is gravely serious. The source of animal feed is grain. That's why I want to ask the highest. Food Minister: Is there a response plan to respond to current conditions, and how can we make sure that key measures are available for the next year's domestic food production?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This subject is clearly on a program in many parts of the world, reminding us that in times of war, society is suddenly not as safe as you are to get used to. But what has happened, if we talk about it directly, i.e. The food security in this country because of the Ukraine war, I think it's important that we put some factors in perspective. In Ukraine, governments now place restrictions on many types of food, e.g. sunflower oil, corn, wheat, and barley Of course, this has an effect, but Ukraine is a very large manufacturer of all of this in exporting. Today, during the past week, the Ukraine government added these limits to corn and sunflower oil, i.e. They appreciate it as such that their food security is assured. It's a change from week to week. In Ukraine there is now a sowing of spring crops, where farmers are sowing grains and sunflowers, despite the fact that there is war in the country and conditions that have not existed since World War II show how unusual the situation is. However, governments there believe that a drop in the area that is close to being settled can result in a drop of 30◯50%. We are dealing with people both east and west, and of course with the European Union and the European Economic Area, where information is transmitted and will continue. But I would like to make this point under this team that there is no evidence to suggest that the food security of the Icelanders or the local people will be disturbed, but there will be hiccups in the chain of manufacturing, and, of course, more likely, as war persists.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to reiterate my inquiry about the plan of action, whether there is any response plan other than consultation with other countries to address this situation. We are fortunate to have good conditions for cultivating grain in this land, and it is evident that such materials can be donated. Of course, being self - sufficient is important, and our goal is always to pursue sustainability. That's why I want to ask the highest. Food Minister: Are there actions on the drawing table that are about to increase and support domestic grain production?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u30	A respectable president. Of course, there are some factors that have been considered, to make it a temporary adjustment of the food label in import. The market members need to replace specific components for the use of sunflower oil, etc. I have personally encouraged farmers to start farming, I think it's extremely important, and I think we can do much better there. As noted earlier in the question period, in response to the highest degree. Prime Minister, it is part of the National Security Council's work to pay particular attention to supply, not only for food, but also for drugs and fuel. All of this is to consider, and this work has access to the Food Ministry. I still insist that although we are working on a national response program, this year there is no reason to believe that there is a serious problem here within the country, but it might be the next year if the war persists.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u31	A respectable president. It speaks of careful management, that the Piratars had not done enough careful work on a bill of criminal possession drug abuse. That's what I said. the manager of the wood just a few minutes ago during the unprepared query period. I think it's rather unnatural of the highest. Ministers to say this because of the incredible amount of discussion and work the case has been given since 2015 when it was first scheduled here. I just wanted to come up to represent the council that's been doing a lot of work on this and is always getting involved with the administrative part of the business and giving the weak excuse that it needs to be prepared better. They are few of the things that have been allowed to pass without any preparation. We are engaged in committees of the council, each day in over - and - over - fixation. But this case has been discussed since 2015, with very detailed analysis and work, and it is not fair to the council to say that the matter has not been prepared. [[The president calls.]] It's a simple premium.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u32	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. If it's Pirates to teach that criminal consumption dosages have not come true, then I'm the man in the moon. After all, it amazed many, when the Allied group scraped off for Christmas in the middle of the ultrasound wave and in the time of the hard Administrative Limits, without extending support options for the unions that grew out. It was not until February 1, that it was taken up until after the elected week, and thus the program and priorities were held, despite the fact that most of the parts were fully aware that it would take weeks to implement the project. It's March 28th. Directors of restaurants are still waiting for funding, which we agreed on on February 8 and it has not even been opened to applications for the general penance grant. They are not even applied yet. The government must have quick hands, but then we need to be here at the council and the President of the Generals to do everything in our power to prevent similar slowness, the same kind of delay in needed action because of rising prices and rising interest as a debt and a poor home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u33	A respectable president. I want to say the word with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and I'm going to be able to quote the words of the highest. Prime Minister, from now on, at about three o'clock, on permission of the president: ▪ I also believe that it is important that we face these consequences by action directed toward certain groups, not necessarily flat measures that will spread evenly on everyone, but just such a goal of action. This refers to operations for homes due to 7% of the land's inflation. As it happens, we in the United States have been talking about how to take two months and the difference between us and the highest. The prime minister is that he is ruling the land. This can really do, not just say. Where's the Senate case that's always being quoted? Why doesn't anything come into the council? These phrases have exactly no meaning if they do not have any actions. Why is it not possible to agree with matters that are prepared and available to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u34	Madam President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardósdótir to be careful about work at the moment. A health committee in the event of criminal abuse dose reduction was used for treatment. We got inurmulous guests, took a careful review of the reviews, adapted what had to be fixed. We took into account what the committees had to say, there were conflicting opinions, so the case was made from A to Z on the Committee. Of course, it is not true what was said in the case of the highest court. Minister of law that the case has not been handled well enough. But I come up here mostly to make a complaint that was held here at a meeting before the weekend. As a matter of fact, the Minister of Culture and Business Ministers of the Parliament at the Parliament's Hall complained that members of Congress, diplomats, and anticonsistency, are participating in a very normal discussion. [[The president calls.]] It is absolutely unacceptable that such a situation exists, that a minister is walking between and complaining that members of Congress are participating in a normal discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like a team president to keep this from happening again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u35	I don't know. The members of the council are scheduled for a session on the President's conference board, which otherwise has not been very complained until now, is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u36	A respectable president. Hv. Senators and people watching. I was told last night that there were 7,000 people who regularly watched the General TV, so we're popular. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm wondering about Pirata's bill that Þórhildur Sunna has been talking about here in the pont. I'd like to ask you a few questions. Technically, I'm an addict. I am an inactive alcoholic, and alcoholics are addicts, so to speak, I could use drugs. But my cheek is, 'Who is a junkie? Who will judge who is a junkie?' Okay. How big a dose of consumption is it, and how many doses can an addict be taken? Who's the one who counts who's a junkie? To whom exactly do those who present this bill consider themselves practical for the approval of the bill? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u37	I want less of it. Councilmen should address others'motives. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u38	Madam President. I kind of come up here in the same business as that. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, describing my experiences on Pirata's case of delinquency was employed on a welfare committee during the last term. It was worked out with such enthusiasm and carefulness that, I'm just going to say it out, now that I thought it was quite enough of the time that the committee and here at the councilroom. So if the Government Ministers are interested in delaying or stopping the case, I refer to their own case, because now it's not the Senate case that's on the agenda, it's the government case of delinquency, so I'm going to let myself sludge it, Madam President, excuse it, I think they'll have to be people to look elsewhere than at the World Health Committee, because there was no need for them to file on this case unless the possibility of too much time involved. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u39	Madam President. I'm sitting here at the back of the hall, so I'll be right back. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson went to something to beg for the first speeches of those who were expressing themselves on President's conference board, I couldn't hear what he said. So I wanted to direct it to the President to counsel the senator on how it would be best to express itself in this room, which is exactly from this ponta, something the government would do all too rarely these days. Then I watched him walk out of the hall, so it may be too late. He has expressed himself enough with prominence. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. A senator had been trying to point out the sleazy government through the crime bill and perhaps especially when reviewing how well the leadership of the welfare committee during the last term was holding up on the case. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson was leading the panel of members of the Parliament who acted in a decisive manner toward Halldóra Mogensen, the chairman of the committee, when she gave up the reserved good work in one case after another. I just want to just right these last seconds, which I no longer have to remind the president that pregnancy violation laws had not passed through the Allied Council of Iceland during the last term, except vegna Halldora Mangensen's leadership on the welfare committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has something to do with putting it here in a pit and saying it rather than muttering it out of his seat.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u40	The President reiterates that speaking in a discussion about the President's conference board is one minute, not a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u41	President. I thought it was a little interesting to see the highest. Using these statements about professional practice, I don't think he would know any professional practice, even if they hit him in the face. I'm sorry. It is sometimes extremely difficult to distinguish between the changes in the proposals that take into account everyone's viewpoints in a very tactful and broad way, which you would think would be a talkative method, and then when governments come into votes on the matter, complain about the very things that are being corrected, and then turn down both the issues and the changes. If there is to be talk of professional work, the management should look closer, at least during the last term. I'm turning this case down to the highest level. Minister of wood, hoping for a more perfunctory discussion to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u42	A respectable president. I've been in this chair many times, and I've called for measures to protect my homes, but nothing continues to blunder on them. Here, though, I am here because on Friday, members of Congress were again receiving an emergency call from a team of private and small companies for tourism. This is a group that has fallen between ships and docks in government operations and is now running out of control. They were to be able to apply for a power of resistance at the end of the month, but they were still not inflatable. I trust the IRS and everyone involved is doing their best. I would like to direct it to the President in part to the companies of this group who have surrendered in the past few weeks and months will be helped to regain their feet. A company that was in bad shape was quick to fall when Covid started, but the companies that have been able to resist the pressures of all this time, this year or more, must be well - fired, although they did not have the resources to endure a complete failure in their long term travel service. Therefore, I would like to ask the president to consider what would delay the volume of resistance that was due to be held at the last month's convention, as well as part of the development of their small companies for travel services that failed their last record to see if they can be restored. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No one should have to lose a home because of a condition like Covid certainly is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u43	Madam President. It was difficult last week here, especially at the end of the council, but I thought that people began to sit and talk, something that may not have been too much around here at the high Council. I just want to encourage the entire assembly to have a good conversation, to listen to professional comments, and to consider matters that are being done and to take matters that have come into the committee, which have been given by a very broad panel of members of Congress, for a objective discussion. We can work better together. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u44	Madam President. I come up here to say something. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir and others who have come up here to speak. Admittedly, it may take time to do things well, and there may be some things that can cause a person to delay. However, what has been held here at the Assembly Hall today and in the media has recently been held to the highest degree. Minister something I don't consider to be present, and it's that the council is blamed for both unwillingness and physical inactivity and the neglect of the government. I just want to say about the bill of drug crime that it's a case that's been well worked here at the council. If we're being accused of not being on the program, it's not the Senate at all. [[The president calls.]] It can be anyone else, and we may know exactly who it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u45	President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir of the council's careful tactics and words of the highest order. Minister of wood. If government ministers really don't believe that the process was a good thing to be done on Porta's bill on delinquency, despite the fact that other members have proved otherwise in their speeches. HCP to practice good practice yourself, e.g. by inviting consumer representatives, the most influential population in criminal possession of drugs. If the highest. The Minister intends to win this bill himself instead of letting Pirata's bill through, I sincerely hope he does it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u46	Madam President. I have seen a certain lack of knowledge as to what criminal abuse really means. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson I'd like to say we're happy to take the conversation with you. A senator explaining how this criminal bill works and what the right effect it has on etc. He is new here at the General Assembly and may have missed the extensive discussions over the matter during his final term. But that excuse has the highest. Well, Minister of Woods doesn't, and that's the highest excuse. The secretary of finance is not for confusing the terms of regulations, legalization and crime, for bringing in some panels that perhaps some treatment may be missing before this case can be established. It's all based on a lot of ignorance. I don't think it's the least of the officers of these classes who have said they've thought they might be taken into account by crime. What is the issue before they start talking in the media about things they obviously don't know. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u47	A respectable president. V.E.G. Prior to this, the prime minister said by permission of the president: ▪ I also believe that it is important that we face these consequences by action directed toward certain groups, not necessarily flat action that spreads evenly on everyone, but just such a goal of action. But where are these measures? They won't get hurt. There's nothing in the Constitution. There's no Congress in here. Nothing. It's just as much of a joke as it already is. An inside minister calls for an increased share of fishing profits to the public, then comes up here in a pit, and reveals that he doesn't mean anything by what he said at a convention meeting of the Agency. It's all in their mouths. They say one thing in the media, and then they say something quite different here in the conference hall. It's one of the news class, but it's another whole different group at the government table and here at the General. The same goes for the highest. Prime Minister and the cause she at times pretends to represent here at the council. [[The president calls.]] Where's the Senate? It's nothing. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing in the Constitution. There's nothing in here. There's nothing to tell.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u48	A respectable president. There was one more issue that I wanted to draw to the attention of the president in the previous discussion. It was the highest. Healthcare minister talking about a new report on the health system and was urging the council to consider the report. I would like to reiterate that request to the president. The report, as you have been able to look over it during this brief period of time since it was published, describes just what has been said in recent years. The situation has been exactly explained to the council, and it is confirmed in this report. In recent years, we have tried to cope with the problems that have been pointed out in financial programs and budgets, but nothing has been done. Finally, we have a report from an independent party that tells us exactly what the health system has been telling us members for years. Then I think it's a very good reason to discuss it seriously here at the council Hall. [[The president calls.]] So I encourage a respectable president to take this trial to the highest level. The health minister is serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u49	Madam President. I want to reiterate what I said here about the fact that there's really need to be a review of matters, they can be delayed for various reasons, and that opinion can take a long time, especially when it needs to be careful. On the other hand, a conflicting explanation has been given on the part of the government and the Supreme Court. Her minister on why this matter has simply not been cleared up long ago, since much work has been done. But I want to say the same thing, too. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll son of Jóhannsson when he cites an action that has been foretold and that is not enough. Then you wonder where the blame is, and you wonder if it's the best. Ministers likewise want to blame the council for their lack of activity. I just want to agree with it. A senator mentioned earlier about the forward party in particular. Both of these and other issues are clear that the advance party is one category in the media and a campaign campaign, while another group is in charge at this assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Suddenly, nothing of what was promised will happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u50	Madam President. It may only be hoped that at times we may wonder if a government will have a real bearing on our minds when it comes to the loss of drug abuse. We are here discussing the crime issue, but we also reviewed the year 2019 when we had the consumption room for a welfare committee discussion. Then, at the beginning of 2019, the Ministry of Health had not consulted with the Ministry of Justice. The matter crashed thoroughly into a welfare committee because the Ministry of Justice had weakened and might have tried to consult with the Ministry of Health before the matter came to the council, but it did not affect the development or arrival of the case. The natural thing didn't work out. Since it had to be interconnected between the welfare system and the justice system, the welfare committee agreed to bring the case back to the Father's House and ask the Ministry to do it properly. [[The president calls.]] It came about in the fall of a better job, and we managed to finish it, but it was not because of the great will of the management but because of the work the government put into it on a welfare committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u51	President. This is about the President's conference board, I promise. Now I'm a deputy at the council, and I'm new, and I don't really know exactly what the routine is, but with all due respect for the President of the Generalist, I think the bell might be quite relaxed sometimes when we're just over the deadline. It can get a little bad in your ears. But as I said, I'm just a backup man, and I don't know exactly what the routine is, whether the President is to hit a bell a few times as soon as we cross the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u52	President. In view of the fact that Mrs. President's excellent leeway for discussion, I wanted to come up here and pick up my glove for two years. Councilmen, on the one hand. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson and the other. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson spoke in a speech earlier, everything was right, as far as I'm next to it, and it was interesting to hear of it. paritaprevir Mrs. President, Ásmundur Friðriksson would have been on this case I had no idea. I want to thank you. That's for a senator. I believed that the Central Party had been almost alone in pointing to the fault of this preposterous case, which the government then adopted on its own. But I have a good reason. My colleagues in the government stand to be surprised and to come here and discuss specifically that the media say one thing and then do another? [[Up front.]] This is a category business model, Madam President. First and foremost, I'm glad that this class thinks it's wise to say what I'm assuming most platoon members want to say, of course, that it's a completely different case that hopefully doesn't come back in here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u53	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. In view of the circumstances that are sadly changing in the world today, the prime minister for taking this need for a discussion here on national food security. The focus points and questions in this discussion are five and will be considered. 1st What work is being done at National Security and other economic defenses in order to ensure national security? 2. Is there a need to start a special job that will identify and appreciate the response to rising food and products in this country due to the current situation? 3. Has a minister made plans to ensure cooperation between the Food Ministry, the Ministry of Business, and the Ministry of Economics to assess the impact of these circumstances on the nation? 4. In what ways will a minister assist farmers to cope with this unusual situation? 5. Does a minister need to increase domestic food production in any way in order to cope with the situation and will a minister take advantage of it? If we define the safety profile, the following definition exists, with permission of the president: ▪ Safety is there when all people always have real and economic access to adequate, safe, and nutritious food in order to meet their nutritional needs through free food choice to lead active and healthy lives. A U.S. Food Security report published in 2021, a truly brilliant report, and I encourage the whole body to read it, says the president: The natural food security of the Icelanders depends on four main leaders: to have resources for production, such as fish stocks and agricultural land that knowledge of production and manufacturing tools is present, that access to resources is assured for the manufacture meets the people's needs, e.g. oil, cream and food, that supplies are provided by the types of food that the nation needs, but that domestic food production cannot guarantee or produce at home will be increased. The most important point is the presence of resources for production, such as fish stocks and agricultural land. Certainly, we have the four - point box, and we are quite successful when this happens today, while following the invasion of Russia in Ukraine and in the light of the world today, the availability of food products may fail. One of these important factors is the appeal. It's incredibly important, for example. to produce grain and to maximise production. Energy consumption is high, but energy prices have also rose, and prices have doubled in one year. Now the prospect is high, and it aims to make the event more attractive. A link between price prices and food prices is usually left hand in hand. That is really the situation we are looking at today. There may also be a crop failure, such as. was now in China during the last year, where there was a great flood and there was much less production, and there was also much less production in the United States last year because of drought. Then the war will be added. The report on food security says, with permission of the president: ▪ All articles of food production in Iceland are linked with the fact that they are based on knowledge available in the country and production procedures that apply to national regulations. For these branches to survive, they must live with acceptable supplies. The import of goods, which provide the most efficient products, can result in the production of entire habitat. The branches depend on one another, if one of them falls off, may quickly flee from another.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u54	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ingi Pétursson for this important discussion, which is now the subject of the day, if defined, may be a time for inquiry, which I believe is actually very positive. You see, it's a big deal. Hv. A senator raised a few questions; first, what job would have taken place at the National Security Council. So I'm reviewing the Categorian, which covers the national security policy that was approved for 2016. I received a special discussion on the National Security Council at a meeting in November 2018 and then came to the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers and introduced preparation for new food policies and food safety factors. The surveillance report of the National Security Council published over the period 2019◯2020 shows that preparing for a food security policy, starting a food safety policy, has been introduced to the year 2030 as well as to the 2030. A report by the National Security Council on Health Assessment and National Security, published in February 2021, shows me that the main threat of food security is the import of food, such as food, food, and packaging, and oil supplies in case of fishing. A high proportion of food products are coming from the outside, and domestic food production depends on this import of resources, as I mentioned here. The National Security Council pointed out that it is important to promote sustainable development in food production and to make regular assessments of food supplies in order to ensure minimum supply targets in the country. Public Defense and Security Council policy also discusses the necessary supplies to secure the country's survival and is now working under the direction of the Ministry to define criteria for needed supplies to ensure the survival of the people in times of need. Then we have also decided to update the assessment of national security on the basis of the situation that has come up under the invasion of Russia in Ukraine. The Food Ministry is very close on the development of food and products following the invasion and has been in contact with food producers, suppliers and interests. However, the service group to whom I referred to earlier is working to shape suggestions on how to react to a plan or organization that is defined as what should be considered of the means of emergency and scope, and the obligation to obtain the necessary supply, and ways to ensure the necessary supply. It is not merely about food. It is also in the mountains, as shown in my case today, on drugs and medical supplies, fuel, and the necessary supply of spare items to ensure the safety of communications and electricity. It's such a bigger role. Hv. A senator mentioned the importance of our attending long - term policy in these matters, and here he gave a fine report that the Landing School worked on food security. I agree with the fact that this report is good and has been commissioned to work with a plan for food security for Iceland and that it should be available in April the second. So we're expecting policy based on this fine report. Hv. A senator now reviewed various parts of it, so I'm not going to repeat it. It is interesting, though, to see how much means we have on food production in those articles, where we are not enough of ourselves. I've been talking about vegetable culture, and we've been ingesting it. That's what I think is extremely important, even in the light of changed consumers, but 43% of the vegetables we consume are domestic product and there are very different species. Of course, we eat more domestic potatoes and quiets than e.g. In the case of a flower, it reminds me that more than 90% are imported. There we have a great deal of opportunity to do much better, except, of course, in the grain industry, about 1% of total consumption. However, when it comes to meat, eggs, and dairy products, livestock serves us for 90% plus, up to 99% when it comes to dairy products. However, production plants vary greatly in proportion to those subjects mentioned here, and the impact of the lack of one of these resources varies from branch to branch. For example, poultry and pigs are dependent on imported food. Such a lack would not affect the production of lamb. So we need to put ourselves in the background: How dependent are the articles imported, and what must we do to reduce that height, so that I put it this way? The same is really true of the fishing industry, which is dependent on the import of fuel, etc. I come to the specific details of the final talk, but I would like to reiterate my thanks for putting this important issue to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u55	Madam President. As reported in a report published in March 2009, our situation in Iceland is weaker than neighboring nations when it comes to food security. We depend on the regular import of food and have limited capacity for food production. In the autumn of 2008, the economic breakdown made it clear that the lack of currency can have serious effects. So to increase the national food security, it would be good to walk in the European Union and replace the Icelandic currency. In the collapse of the bank, e.g. only for supply of grain in the country for a few weeks. If the import had stopped and the trade was paralyzed, such as if the trade service had not worked, it would have been a direct threat to food safety. In contrast with what was in the collapse, the international media used in this country is now all owned by foreign citizens and thus not entirely falls under Icelandic jurisdiction. As a result, the European Economic System may pose a threat, and national security may be involved in ensuring national legislation. Both food supply and production depend on import, such as food, food, and packaging, and on how fish fishing would be provided if there was limited oil supply. The internal production would soon be reduced if there was a loss of access to international markets. It is obvious, therefore, that for a long time, we have to make arrangements and plans for emergency supplies within the country and in each part of the country. Food security could be threatened by wars, pandemics, natural disasters, or by human climate. It is essential to evaluate important areas due to food production and water safety and to consider the land use policies for food production with respect to land options and crops potential.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to, of course, at the beginning, thank you. a voter for starting this discussion and the highest. Prime Minister for the answers he brought here. I think this is the subject, and it is often difficult to get a discussion of food security on the program and the discussion of food production until the prices are gone. That is the very picture we will face in the months that follow. The war now, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, this past month, is only an additional step in the state that had been drawn here in the past few months and lost. Corn prices had increased, bound to energy prices, there is a shortage of resources like fertilizer. This is all a discussion we've taken to this hall and responded in a certain way. But there are other variables out there, like, just like. that China decided to ban the use of food residues for pigs, which increased the import of corn to China to 30 million tons of 5 million tons. 40% of all corn and wheat fields of U.S. farmers go for fuel production, and this is where energy prices are now growing. This is all a sign in the big picture that we must take seriously and look to our home. I want it to be directed to the highest. Prime Minister, as soon as I say I was pleased with her answers and the work being started, that at this time we need to consider improving our relationships and strengthening our business relationships to ensure that we are provided and prepared for the next few months and miss. I think we really don't have any time to lose that kind of time. I guess the work that has now started can do that to us. But first and last, I believe, a respectable president, we have to look around the agricultural environment here and strengthen it and encourage farmers not to make a profit in these critical times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u57	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter on the program and the prime minister for making a summary of what is being done. When it comes to food security, it is important to look at it from the complex systems it forms. This is not just the fact that food from abroad doesn't come here, but it's a much bigger case that has a lot of different systems that we need to monitor, and so are different stage shots we need to think about. The scene in which we now live, for example. Because of the war in Ukraine, the cost of fertilizer is up, the cost of gasoline and oil is blown up, and the price of grain and food is breaking up as well as in foreign foods. Most of these are taxed or taxed, which means that the product of these products is rising according to plans. So I ask: What would you say against temporarily reducing the effects of these customs, remuneration, and taxes? The state, of course, will lose nothing of doing that. But it is not enough just to watch the scene today. We also need to think about what happens if conditions become more serious, if war breaks out in Europe, now or if we do not have currency, as it was in 2008. But I'm going to learn more about it and how we will build up for it in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u58	A respectable president. It is vital that we talk about the safety of the nation from all angles, also from the standpoint of food security. We are an island in the sense that we are an independent nation surrounded by sea, but let us not forget that there is no island in the international field. All nations are dependent on others, and we are not enough of ourselves. Although we produced enough food to live under the nation's consumption, the production would still be dependent on foreign resources, equipment, and oil. Therefore, our interests in Iceland depend on the world's global freedom of business and peace. Icelandic agriculture and sea transport play an important role. We're producing the highest quality groceries. We are to continue to support the production of healthy and healthy commercial agricultural products, which most likely are in Icelandic vegetables. But seas and restrictions, e.g. in the form of tolls and leaves of competitive law, do nothing to keep our food safe. What they do best is to increase the food prices of all consumers to the poor. We are just as dependent on the import of manure, grain, and oil as we lay high tolls on foreign chickens, potatoes, etc. It is very important to improve the security of the people, and they need to be done. Power currents, e.g., can be effective. national production and aid farmers in the production of food for themselves. But I would like to warn of the voices that claim that business restraints make us safe. On the contrary, they reduce our ability to ensure adequate supply of food if there is a global shortage. It remains that our best food security tool is helping us to maintain world peace and to continue to cooperate with the countries that are moving to the same end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u59	Madam President. This is an enormously important debate and reason to thank the advert for bringing up the subject here, a matter that we in the Middle Ages have tried to draw attention to the past few years, which is clearly evident in our overall policy of agriculture, the importance of food safety and the solutions for securing it. Although there are occasional discussions with this important issue, especially with some sort of worldwide emergency in markets or now as a result of this terrible war in Ukraine, there is a lack of follow - up, failure of action. So I wondered, " Will this discussion lead to some real operation of the government to trust the national food security, since it has not been? ' As I have often described, I have been drawn up from many parts of the earth at the same time. If we are serious about providing food security in Iceland, there is an increase in support of Icelandic agriculture and evacuation, the burden of order that is very taxing for our agriculture competition with agricultural equipment elsewhere. Without real action and real support, we will not guarantee real security. I eagerly await, Madam President, to see if this will be just another discussion, another general debate, or whether the effects will be evident in the actual actions of the government. There is no need for that. The situation today is yet another reminder of what has long been ahead. But now it really calls for a response, and if they don't come now, when will they come?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u60	Madam President. Consider the events of the moment, as tragic as they are, the motivation that we may have needed to increase, not just food security, but our sense of security and security, since there are naturally many here in distress and anxiety about what is happening in the world. Of course, food security is just one aspect of the situation. We want to make sure we're all over the country. It hangs with the main living that the tourism has become in Iceland. We don't want to have an abandoned waste place where there's no farming. We know that the wholesome value we have here in this food box at the ends of the inhabited earth, as the land has sometimes been called, of course, is of immense value to us in the sea, in the air, and on the land. Perhaps that was the main reason why Ireland's monks took up residence here in the sixth, seventh century C.E. However, it has been said of motivation and wealth, and of the love of vision, and of all that. This is a welcome opportunity to do this, to promote food production, both in the most natural context of the farming, we have the fire that is going to be as valuable as the ever - torn fish farm in the ocean. There are many other opportunities to secure food security and to promote a sense of security with an Icelandic nation at an appropriate time. But for a long time: Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u61	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank an Aggressor, Pétursson Ingi, for this discussion of the national food security and the highest. Prime Minister for her answers earlier. The recent weeks following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a war in a land that has long been called the pantheon of Europe, have become a tangible change in all discussions of food security. It does not really need a symbolist to understand the meaning of the Ukrainian flag, since blue sky is situated over yellow fields. A report on food security in Iceland, released on February 11, 2021, speaks of four support in the security of our Icelanders. The first is the presence of natural resources, such as fish stocks and farms for breeding. It's just very important that we realize that underneath these teams, we have our strong fish stocks, and perhaps what remains threatening us there is a need for us to secure the use of existing crops. Another factor is that knowledge of the manufacture and manufacturing tools is available. There our agricultural schools come strong, making sure that knowledge is not lost and that it is maintained and sustained at any given time. However, it is the third team, Mrs. President, who is most concerned about access to resources that meet the people's needs, such as oil, fertilizer, and food. There is a significant need to respond, as it is clear that much of these resources are now at a reduced dose, such as the cream and the basic materials for fertilizer. In addition, DNA and grain and the materials needed in Icelandic agriculture are concerned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It is necessary to ensure the production of European farmers and to improve the management sector and the future sector of Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u62	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. It is needed, especially in view of a more serious situation in Ukraine and the impact of the war on global food security, on what had become a predictable problem. Food security is a lifelong task, and this is the issue of politics. Drains and other natural tears play a role and may trigger famine. Then it is our job to share the goods with the common people alike. Then, as part of man - made famine, not only because of climate change but also because of wars and wars, because of the insuficient ways of farming and the lack of government policy in many parts of the world when we speak of food security. Examples show a link between food safety and conflict, especially within the country. The most intimate example is the conflict we teach in the spring of Arabic, where grain prices for bread were growing among other factors in the movement of that conflict. Here I am not comparing the invasion of the Russian government in Ukraine with the protest against the conflict that took place during the spring Arabic but to the chain - effect of the invasion worldwide. It is a known size in the war effort to promote famine and thus put pressure on other countries of the world to hold hands and not get involved in the conflict. It's like the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier is Ukraine, and Russia is responsible for producing grains in the world as well as for other productions. The impact of the conflict will be unequivocally maintained here on land. We rely on the import of our food production. Therefore, it is important that governments step into the present situation and respond to the rising prices of manure and other resources needed for food production. More important to the future is increasing the share of domestic production on the resources needed for food production. It is part of a sustainable diet reducing the impact of external factors on the food production and food security of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u63	Madam President. Iceland has its food security under the fact that there is a free trade in countries and countries without pressure and monopolizement. It is a war in Europe, and under these conditions it is quite natural for us to wonder about food security because we are far from sustainable when it comes to food production. So we must rely on being able to move in various resources, including some. The best exports from Ukraine and Russia but also products that Europe needs in its production. We are also dependent on the fact that the price of prisoners does not go beyond control. We are dependent on the fact that the situation in this country is not that the public cannot afford the necessities, since it is simply that both increases in domestic products as well as increases in abroad's products, whether for consumption or for production, can threaten national food security. This is actually the case, but the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir's daughter has little interest in helping the homes of the country because of increasing prices and inflation. A respectable president. In times of inflation, it is time to lower customs so that the public can afford to feed themselves and their families. On the contrary, the policy of communication here is not a means of security but of doing all that can be done to ensure safe access to food for the public. This will require reducing the electricity costs for vegetable culture and other agricultural production. Agricultural systems for farmers and consumers need to be fixed long ago and simply do everything to increase national food security. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u64	Madam President. The global epidemic of Covid-19 and the present war in Ukraine has demonstrated the importance of domestic food production for national security. The internalisation of food is particularly important when a nation is as isolated as a nation for the import issue of food and Iceland. Therefore, there is good reason to engage in a large growth in the production of horticulture products and to strengthen all other food production. Access to inexpensive energy has played a major role in the construction of Iceland's garden. Electric prices therefore have a direct bearing on how much garden farmers can produce and on which to sell their products to consumers. Electricity is now marketed and therefore needs to be paid for market prices that swing for supply and demand. In order to help increase the production of horticulture products, the Icelandic state has, to a degree, lost the cost of gardening farmers in transporting electricity and distribution. We in the people's Gang would like to increase the support to garden farmers by further reducing the electrical price to them. In the next four years, we want all the costs of transport and distribution of electricity for the production of horticulture products. I'd like to remind you that a group of people has provided a bill for subsidies on electrical energy to farm farmers. The bill will be discussed at the moment. I would like to encourage the members of the board to highlight the payment of the case. As far as the importance of country and nation is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u65	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion and the answers of the prime minister, Ingi Pétursson. During the last week of Malmö Council of the Northern Council, there was a remarkable subject of how much we considered today and in a similar way. All of our neighboring countries are ensuring food and food security in their areas. The Ukraine war brought us sleepless. Danish farmers have canceled 7% of the number of grain productions to ensure a sufficient supply of grain in the country next year. Less production was to be a contribution to farmers'farms to a non-carbon agricultural industry and to the demands they had set out. Despite their climate goals, Dan's decision has come back. During the last week, the fear of neighboring nations, the fear of talking about specific measures to secure their own food security, was evident at the Northern Parliament. Iceland has to expand its infrastructure of infrastructure to meet the requirements for sustainable growth in food and energy. It should also be possible to examine large quantities of crops and other such products in the country. A respectable president. There must be a supply of grain that is acceptable to the nation if there is a place in international affairs that we must stand on our own. Today there are supplies of grain products from private companies in the country for three months. Energy exchange for agriculture and ships is key elements of national security. A respectable president. It takes to be an independent nation in a large oppressive country where farming is a part of the security demand we make for a nation of independent food and food.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u66	Madam President. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, it is important that we look at food security from a broader foundation, not only how we deal with higher prices but also when there are limits to the quality of our food. In 2008 Iceland was almost bankrupt. In fact, we can argue whether we weren't just bankrupt. A few days before a famous television talk, there were plans for the trade of fish for drugs, oil, and food. Yeah, this can happen in Iceland. It is hoped that the black stage will not be the case again, but it is important that we build planning and counter measures to make sure that we as a community can face conditions that are created, whether by nature or by man. It is important to discuss this, plan and counter measures now, but not 15 minutes in kaos.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson for starting this discussion. It's important. In this country, the debate on food security has largely been about foods itself, how we can become sufficient, regardless of the import of foreign food. In this discussion, I would like to mention two important points. On the one hand, such independence is about much more than just enough production within the country. It's about how we can drive all our production tools using domestic energy sources, that we can produce the tools that are needed in this country, and that other resources, such as fertilizer, feed, roll plastic and building materials, are produced on land as well. The other factor is that the existing agrienvironmental support system, with customs and seas, does not make domestic production more independent in this respect. It is not a realistic goal to make the Icelandic manufacture an independent import. It is also unwise when the cost of sacrifice is to reduce our business dealings with other countries. Transmissions are based on the production of peoples in their area of practicality and bringing in what is most practical for producing elsewhere. This approach results in an increase in prosperity and food prices for the families of this country. Though war has begun in Europe, moving to Iceland has not stopped. They also did not stop during the pandemic or during World War II. Experience shows that it takes a lot to ensure the security of the Icelanders by international trade. Therefore, we are to cut off business barriers and to promote the close cooperation of international countries along with the support of domestic production. In this way, we can ensure sufficient supply of food, not by isolation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u68	Madam President. It's a pleasure to hear the music in the highest. Prime Minister, the message will be highest. A minister brings us here to return to real action? There is indeed a need for that action, more than ever before. I'm not sure the government is aware of the scope of the problem we are facing. I encourage people to read Erna Bjarnadóttir's article at Science today, which reviews the actual effects of what is happening. This requires real action. But what has been the case? It is being forced into the Icelandic agriculture industry at the same time; by laying new spells on the article, by having them compete with foreign agriculture in a wrong way, by agreeing with bad toll agreements and so forth, instead of simply acknowledging that it is an enormously important source of food for our nation and that it is worth investing in and helping. This is not to be accomplished by contributing to the regular work being done on agriculture today. We will also see that instead of increasing food production, contractions are expected. I have often pointed out that the only industry that the government finances in some way, where a recession was expected compared to the financial program of this government, was agriculture. In all other lands, additional donations were expected. Only in agriculture was the expected contractions. This is also reflected in the migrating of land in ditches and in the destroying of agricultural land instead of increasing production. I'm the highest. The prime minister and the government all to learn the suggestions of the Central Party, about a major increase in food production and processing in Iceland, for there the solutions are found, how to do this, how to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u69	Madam President. First, I would like to thank you very much for the fine discussion that has taken place here and for special thanks to the prime minister for his fine talk. I'd like to come in here at the beginning to some of the things. Tolls have been discussed by members of the council. I just want to be encouraging. Councilmen to study the toll file and review with them what we are doing. When people realize that 87% of the food they have brought to this country is free of customs, I think that people are slowing down only in this discussion. That's not what makes us clean. What we might be facing now is that nods will come to our separate chain to our country. This is very important in the context of our thinking about it, making it our goal to have, my food, two - year supply of grain, oil, and cream, that there are only supplies of this, whether we have war or we have a pandemic or because of the weather. It is very important for our domestic product to protect this. That's extremely important. More important, we need to reevaluate the agricultural environment at home in order to help them meet these challenges. I just point out one small thing here in the rest, Madam President. We can greatly improve the growth of grain. We're now producing 6,500,000 tons, but the consumption is 150,000 tons just in animal feed. A respectable president. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u70	Madam President. Thanks to the people here who have expressed themselves, and I am very pleased to find this harmony here at the council on this important matter, which has actually been very important for a very long time but was first set on a program at the 2018 National Security Council, which was immediately scheduled. Then it was thinking of this long - term dating event, but I also reiterate what I said in my first talk that I immediately set out a group to define emergency supplies as soon as these terrible reports from Ukraine broke out. They work under the National Security Council and view these differences, not just the food. Hv. paritaprevir The Ingi Pétursson mentioned assistance to farmers, and I would like to remind you of the support that was paid out of the budget to meet the increase in prices. Similarly, I would like to remind you of the food security policy that is now scheduled for April, which is then in the long run. But the big thing about this is that here I feel like I'm going together with a security policy and also a parish, because of course, we have an incredible opportunity for domestic food production. Here, councilmen have discussed gardening, and I remind you of the additional support we have for garden farmers, a quarter increase in the support of garden farmers, and might be done better, as there is a tremendous need, I think, for an increased supply of domestic vegetables. There are parishes in the grain industry and in the innovation we are taking care of all over the country, especially with a new food reserve that has just been a force that has released completely amazing forces around the country from all kinds of innovations and productions in food production. So I think it's not only important matters that concern our safety and food security but also parishions, not only to domestic consumption, but also to export, and I celebrate the harmony I feel in this hall, at least by many whales. Councilmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u71	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress to complete the current inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u72	A respectable president. Since the introduction of this inquiry to early February, the inflation rate has continued to rise to 6.2% at this time in February and can be expected to be high in 7% of the Common Room's new numbers by tomorrow morning. The late phase of the Covid cohesion economically reverses the restoration of the world's economy and the pressures of the raw markets were subject to this. Similarly, there have been signs of pressure in an apartment market at home for months. A lot of people warned about this, but nobody in the government wanted to hear it. The delay in response to Covid resulted in a significant economic imbalance two years ago. Now the same situation seems to be up. War has broken out in Europe to exaggerate the GDP here. The only responses that have occurred in the highest range. The financial minister to date is a conversation with one bank that only two mortgages are out of debt. That answer worries me, a respectable president. If people are in financial trouble, the mortgage is the last you stop paying. If this is a measure of when to intervene, old numbers about people who are losing their houses, then something's wrong. Therefore, it is very good to get this discussion clearly into the council, and I look forward to receiving clear answers from the highest level. Minister on how the economy is being conducted in the Ministry of finance. First of all: Has there been a Ministry Action Programme on dealing with high economic costs and housing markets for Covid in light of clear signs of prices? Second, the Ministry is monitoring the effect of rapid growth changes on people's pay loads in sensitive positions and young people, and what diagnostic work is behind them precisely? Third, how will the government respond for a short time in order to ease the lives of victims of inflation? And finally: What measures are being taken in the government's load to expand housing? The last part of the program is certainly about the long - term strategy that has been discussed here during the council, but it will be curious to hear what work is going on in recent years at the Ministry of finance and how it will appear to us during these last weeks of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to start by answering what is involved in a plan of action, whether it was in the past, and how the government will react for a short time. These factors can be answered by referring to the recent use of economic policies. In the past two years, we have made our efforts to defend our employment, protect our living, the commercial resources of the public, to support the newcomers who have found the most important value in the pandemic, to ensure the demand, protection, and conditions of growth when the pandemic would end. The extent of funding and State responsibilities and partial improvement was considerable, taking into account the situation. It is the opinion of an independent person that he or she has succeeded. The domestic financial situation is strong today, and in 2020 the commercial power of all earners grew. The current economists suggest that this trend continued. Last year, the gift grew. Last year, the buypower of provisions was about a third of that of a decade ago. Then the Habitat biography study suggests that the proportion of homes that are hard to reach together was never lower than in 2021, with the divorce rate close to the historical minimum. It's not just a phone call to one bank that shows it. It's official figures, research on the standard of living in the country, which are evidence of this. In this case, rent prices have remained fairly constant despite a marked rise in real estate prices. This must be kept in mind. In recent years, inflation has increased somewhat, there is no question and is concern, and the price of housing has moved them forward. This trend is not confined to Iceland, as it is a result of the global economy getting better and faster out of the crisis than expected. In view of the co-European standards of inflation, in Europe the inflation rate is quite lower. The economic policy now aims to cope with increased inflation and reduce the risk that it will lead to economic instability, long characterised by the European economy. This year the financial support of the economy will thus be reduced, which is an essential step to stop the debt rise. Continued support now would result in a greater compromise of government funds, promoting inflation, and working against the interests of households and businesses. During the past few years, we have undergone a system change in order to reduce fluctuations and to enhance flexibility and development of highly resistant households. Recent changes in the income tax system have decreased the tax burden and their peripheral taxes, and as I have traced the cost of earnings, the increase in income - related households has been growing over the past few years. Plunger fees on loans have been removed and roofed on external fees, which are also not on loans with variable interest. The numbers of people to refinance loans under changed circumstances have grown dramatically. We can see that there is a high level of mobility at a loan market, and there has been an increase in interest on fixed interest. The mortgage debt is now more than one third lower, in proportion to the income of provisions, than it was ten years ago. In proportion to domestic product, the debt of the households is no lower in the North countries than in the United States, and for thirty years there has been no lower quality on the mortgage. In fact, there are excellent qualities for today's mortgages, the best for decades. It matters. Together, we have chosen to work against fluctuations in the economy through healthy overallization, rather than to attack specific actions every time inflation temporarily exceeds the State Bank's goals. Thus, like the pandemic, homes and businesses have the opportunity to act in advance and wisely in the economy on their own terms. Of course, the Ministry monitors the effects of growth changes on the payment loads of vulnerable and young people to the extent that data allow. There is also the monitoring of the development of debt and payment on the financial status committees. We are supporting the data of the National Bank on new loans that contain information on debt, credit rates, and types of loans from one month to the next, and these are data that primarily cover new loans. We need to focus on what is wise to do in order to achieve the long - term balance between the supply and the demand for a housing market, but recently the government ordered a team to improve the construction market and we have the expectation that in the coming weeks there will be suggestions from the staff. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u74	A respectable president. It was inevitable to cross the past just because it was claimed here that the government had not taken action on the basis of circumstances since then that had caused some enormous problems. But the problem is not showing up in biographies in Iceland today, on the contrary. Standards of living have grown each year, and commercial wealth has increased in the pandemic. This is the situation, home conditions have not been better, and the actual growth of the housing bar has not been as low in a long time. Of the state's debt, as of today. Senators have come in, more than one, I was not worried about her. I was just saying that it's right to use the terms of government with force, to take on the sanatorium when the situation in the economy calls for it. But once the economy has taken over, unemployment is gone, the economy is out of the economy again, and it's not just because we don't collect debts, that's exactly what it is. because of inflation, people are not promoting the inflation at the wrong time. That would be unwise. It would be desirable, but there is much to follow. Then it is expected that such raises will also be paid as in foreign lands, not as in Iceland, for interest rates. This needs to hold hands and, in part, sometimes I feel like we're talking about whether to come first. I think it would be wise for us to start with the collective agreements that match the situation in the economy, but don't force it through the exchange process, for example, and surely it won't be forced by merely bringing down less interest. The action considered is simply a transfer system, a child-replacement system, rent compensation, and such. It is a transfer system that has proved successful and successful, and we look for use if we see the problem in these delicate groups. As for the housing market, I'll just say at the end: I'm actually more concerned about those who are still outside the housing market than about those who have entered the housing market. [[The president calls.]] The wall on the housing market is always rising. It's become an independent bigger concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u75	A respectable president. During our district week, we visited the independent people in Reykjavík, including the U.S.A. An engineering and counseling company. Job drivers in that sector had enough complaints for us senators and city council members, including the U.S. They felt that they were running a training camp for government employees. In other words, it would be a ongoing problem in these workplaces that the State would take away that active force. When the official ad after college experts experienced, they jump to and fro to the warm and safe arms of the state, to a good or better salary, to a greater level of security, to abbreviated workweek, and to who can blame them. After these visits, I sent the highest. So the secretary of the budget is asking if he has information on the range of experts moving from the private sector to the public. It's a problem. This competition for workers is not less common in the rural areas than in the city of Reykjavík, where the management board has been expanded. recently decided to compete with privates for technicalised experts in digital transformation in the city. V.E.G. I don't suppose a minister is, and unfortunately not, states of the City Hall, but I would like to know if he will employ himself for the increase of projects and the cost of the government's service instead of man - made advisers. We know that the public staff service has been growing and increasing in public activity. According to Economics figures, the official third of the total pay force in the country was paid last year. The increase in pay paid persons in the public sector is sure to have some normal explanations, including in the health sector. It would be helpful to hear the highest viewpoint. Ministers on whether the development of workers in the public is normal and whether there is a change in policy, including, as I have mentioned, is expected in these issues, with an increased alibi.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u76	A respectable president. Here I'm going to make an understanding in the inquiry that with the government's public employment market, the main concern may be the government's employees, the part of the labour market that falls under my responsibility. The number of jobs in the state expected of university education in recent years has increased, in line with the increased demand for expertise. In addition to this trend, there has also been a reduction in the need for jobs that expect basic education or education in the extension phase. One factor in this development has been that it has been thought that the education and skills of some large - scale servants of the State have been needed at a university level. For example, a recent example of this is the education of nurses. Another factor is the influence of the population development, which has, for example, a population trend. includes a large increase in the activities of the high school system, as well as the university. In later years, there is an increasing weight of aging in the nation that calls for increased health care functions. The proportion of academicly educated personnel in the state increased from 56% to 64% from 2010 to 2021, according to government data. The increase in proportion includes an increase of 2,412 thousand years of work or a 24% increase. This trend is reflected, e.g. an increase in the number of functions within the medical system, with about 43% of the staff working. Over 30% between 2010 and 2021, the annual activities of university - education clinics in the country increased by 33% and 31% of nurses. I could continue to list these cases. Indiscriminate jobs in the state dropped from more than 7,800 to over 6,800, or from about 6,800. 44% of total total total to 36%, and in part, this trend was explained by the first 2011 transfer of 950 points from state to rural society in connection with the transport of the disabled, which was only about 20% of academic education. So these data need to be examined very well to see the overall picture, but these developments in the composition of workers were actually looking for the trends that have taken place in Iceland during the number of academics during the past decade or so. We do not have numbers to review how many academics have disappeared from the general markets to the institutions of the state, either temporarily or permanently, nor do we have figures of how many academics have left the state's institutions to the general market, so it is difficult to give a precise answer. Of course, we take seriously the indications we receive, as it seems to me. A senator has received this visit, that the public market has improved in terms of public employment and is taking place in public markets. I've always felt, very strong, that the general market would have to be responsible, and the State would have to be careful not to be the cause of a nation's professional development or financial development. On the other hand, it seems more convenient for some to live in the environment that the State offers, and we have a recent example of what that means. We just see what happened here in the pandemic. Where did the work get lost? We didn't resign from the government, but there were 20,000 people out of work. All our jobs were lost in the private sector and, in part, it is generally more career security, if we are experiencing economic hardship, in the public labour market than in the general labour market. There are other matters to consider law on rights and duties of the State and other matters that I'm not going to do. But I think we need to keep track of the indications of this and just the end of the line, I'm going to say that it would not be undesirable to say that we had one of these fairly uniform workforces in the future that primarily directs the flow of employment to a lucrative and improved standard of living, and thus there would be little need for the public to reveal things about what kind of professions people choose, such as specifically resisting the fact that they are going to work with the government that they have a university education. That may not be so much a man would want. In terms of the alibi, I think we need to be careful that the value of the tax system is not creating an abnormal impulse to take jobs and avoid having to support a valuable tax from buying a tax service. [[The president calls.]] But I do believe that there is a natural interaction between the discharges of projects and what the State has within the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is always a joy when members of the Independence Party allow themselves to speak in this way but far too rare. I agree with these ideas. Similarly, a senator is concerned about what is happening in this state and what the position of the private sector is toward the official in this regard. I welcome the highest words. The secretary of the budget for the implementation of projects, for it was a remarkable time to observe the policy of the whole last terms, especially in the health system as well as the year. A senator was talking about. So I think it would be a great deal of good to open the eyes of the government, and especially the Independence Party for this reality, that we are looking at this security and this issue of government, and it must not be that because of the weight on the part of the State, the enterprise will be very much under attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28-57.u78	A respectable president. Yes, there are many things to keep in mind when it comes to salaries. There are the pension rights in this relationship, and I have it on my Constitution to present a matter related to the biographies and previously presented to the Council, on the so-called special property that is intended to ensure one of the steps in order to level the market rate. But the public and public markets have had a shocking turn of action, and people look at the better outcome in public or public markets. At the present time, unions of public employees want to mean that they are greatly distressed. At the same time, however, the job driver's side feels that the terms are least worse in the public. We've been in this conversation for years. We've set up a worksheet, went to a statistical analysis, and it doesn't work or fire, so I'm just saying it just as it is, there's still a considerable amount in between. Why, though, is the public market important? I often feel that it is not clear to me at all during a general discussion, but this example was given to us that I mentioned before, unexpectedly, and sadly completely unsatisfied, to our hands, or to our arms, but where we found ourselves in a down cycle that mainly took a bite in the private sector. We'll see what happens in the economy. We'll see what happens in the public sector when valuable things stop in the general sector. Then taxes simply do not come in the Kingdom box, and we are suddenly confronted with the lack of 100 to 300 billion to carry out public service. Therefore, it must be ensured that it is an attractive, competitive environment in the general labour market.
