ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer today than what the Senate puts it to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u2	A vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u3	They want a vote, and after the Senate's work, they vote for a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u4	Mr. President. I was a little surprised when I saw a meeting program today and there I noticed the 13th program, the Jón Gunnarsson's bill of being mean to the trustees, who is something the government saw as a special reason to remind us that it puts first, as much as it would be willing to return to the bank. It is a bad bill that has been given too many times, and it is amazing that it is presented here as the government's top priority, that the government puts priority on reducing human rights protection to escape. Therefore, I would like to make this suggestion, Mr. President, because I do not expect us to get down to the 13th matter today, that if a president of the United States finds out that tomorrow's meeting schedule is a proposal for a change in the schedule so that the members of the board can show if they think this is a priority or not. I wish a vote would be asked of my proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u5	The President will consider that. We will take note of them no later than - well, perhaps at the following meeting. We need to evaluate when a vote is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u6	A respectable president. The emissions of carbon into agriculture in Iceland are estimated from two factors, one of which is carbon emissions from acidic soil and another resulting from other aspects of the storminary. Carbon emissions from advanced soil are estimated to be 100% higher than other components in the bogs, so heavy; so heavy that many people claim that the carbon track of Icelandic lamb is more than the imported lamb from Australia, which is, of course, a far different end, only to see that it cannot resist. Recently, a report based on research made in North America on carbon emissions from the busiest country was sent to the National College of Innunnán. The results of this study show that reports that have been promoted in Iceland for years, on emissions of carbon dioxide and other estimated greenhouse gases from the developing land, are far from standing. The report says that emissions considered below will be small according to earlier measures performed on prospective, uncivilized organic swamps. A respectable president. There is good reason to investigate these matters in this country, for several loud claims have flown over the long - term release of carbon dioxide from the most advanced land and the importance of restoring the wetlands that has been taken place in recent decades. The report says, with the permission of the president: To map as much as possible for long-term carbon emissions to be achieved in Iceland's most advanced agricultural land, efforts need to be made to organise it in a wide range of programs. It needs to be measured planning and expected from different soils and territories. It is very important that further and continuous monitoring takes place throughout the country. This is important, especially because the government's goals on climate are viewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u7	Mr. President. The government's share has been in the process of watching what they call the big movie in the Icelandic bank sale, that, less than a year, the state has received 108 billion for its sale. However, the people clearly agree with what they have always said in this context; they need to look at an even larger form, a picture that also takes into account moral responsibility, a government moral responsibility for success. The Continental Department claims that it is acceptable to the financial goals achieved, says less about its other goals, those in the interests of public interest, transparency, equality, trust. But perhaps these goals do not belong in the larger form of the government. The value of sales at 108 billion bucks. are funds that can be used for subsidies on the side of the state's budget, which the government has done nothing to work on since the start of the administrative business, so that it is not spoken of an investment that has been neglected in the history of this government. Unfortunately, the government has screwed up this project under the Independence Party project. The government ignored the moral part of the Bank Office with the predictable and natural result that the nation's trust is broken. Mr. President. The nation's trust is nothing. As a result, sales of the remaining section of the bank are owned by the state for a moment, thereby providing the 100 billion investments in infrastructure and subsidies that were planned for an additional debt. And what a costly mistake this is for an Icelandic society! The government will still answer whether the consequences of the failure will be less infrastructure, higher taxes, or something else. The lesson, however, is this: The independent class cannot be trusted to sell government property. It forgets the key elements that the restoration has always emphasized when it comes to selling state property: Salan needs to be in the interests of the public, not chosen. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u8	Mr. President. The forestry School of Smoke was an independent institution in 1939◯2004 until fusion at the Landing School of Innunciation. The unity was never properly achieved, and many of the problems of living together are being brought home when the work is divided between parts of the land and between schools. The country of Smoke is an important educational and experimental site, but teaching space, greenhouses and other facilities need a great deal of maintenance. The houses have been allowed to descend, and now a significant amount of money is needed to correct it and to make a budgeted and time - appointed plan for maintenance and construction. It is not only important for the town of Whos and Elfs to be built by smokers but it is a major factor in the operation if governments are serious about achieving the climate targets set for Iceland and International Releases. During the last term, a decision was made to move the Gardening School to Southland's Mountain School, but they forgot to move money to FFSa and make it possible for governments to take over the business. It was forgotten to prepare the transfer and close loose ends, and now it's all upset for the next school year. The teachers and representatives of a teaching office have been dismissed, and there are debates about who should do what they should do. After that, employees with resignations in hand and insure rights remain in uncertainty and broken promise of a minister. Experience and knowledge needed for the function, for students and for the gardening work disappear with the staff if immediate action is not taken. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir why such a mess could take place and how she was being promoted as a diploma to school, to staff, to students, and to the professions that need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. 8th yrs South, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, very much for the inquiry. I want to draw up some facts here. Yesterday, four teachers in the State's Gardening School were giving up jobs to smoke in Elfus. There, a calm 155 years of experience in gardening and forestry was thrown to them. A 69 - year experience at the Gardening School is worth no more than this. 120 students are not sure. How governments have allowed this important school to be allowed by governments is more than tears, and this important study becomes a perpendicular education system. How could this happen? A ski we can trace back to 1936. I live in close proximity to this school and gardening, and I have always spent my entire life in Whos making and being one of the main sectors in the South. I've tried so hard to understand and put myself in the state of gardening education in Iceland. I've been in touch with the head of the University of Agriculture, headmaster of the FSU, minister of education, university minister, various other ministers, teachers at school, employees of the school, local authorities in all the South and most not least students. All of the South American Parliament's members have taken a good look at the matter and have stuck to the school. As a sign of this, all the senators of the district outside the advance made a pact of independence from the school. It is vital that we look to the Gardening School as an automaton with a government service agreement. We must not allow Iceland's gardening to end. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u10	A respectable president. Power corrupts. This was one of the most important values my grandfather taught me, who spent about 30 years here at a council. Not only did he learn this lesson within the walls of those halls but he saw people in positions of authority around the world, people he knew and wrote about, changed from idealists to greedy dictators, who were unable to expand and secure their power. In the discussion of the spring conference board earlier, I quoted Johns Wooden's comments that it was a measure of morality for people to see how they acted when no one saw it. For us who work in the political world, the wording went on to suggest that it is a good measure of political morality to notice how they behave once they have gained power. Are they more important than dealing with injustice? Are they more important than dealing with racial prejudice? Are they the most important to them than to react to cousinism? Are they more important than dealing with wrongdoing? Yes, a respectable president, it is amazing how much of the politicians are relieved to replace all their complex values, moral and consciences as they come into contact with the smallest amount of power. We must not forget that those in these chairs of power do so in the power of silence, their silences, our tunes and graces as long as morals, equality, and equality are trampled on for the sake of power. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I challenge my colleagues here to stand up against the corruption of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u11	President must be less than a man. The speakers are supposed to be limited in speaking for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u12	Mr. President. The inhuman alienation system of the Icelandic government is not just a system. It affects individuals. That is why it is so important that we receive from time to time reports of how the system treats people, the people who are looking for help and help here. In the news today, we read about Dariu Novitskayu, who had to flee political persecution at Belarus. She then became involved in the practice of sexual abuse in this country. It's still under investigation. What will the Icelandic government do with Dariu? They're gonna get her out of the country. Where are we going to show it? To Poland, which was the first Schengen kingdom where Daria stepped on after fleeing Belarús. Do you think that Poland, with four million refugees from Ukraine, can provide Dariu with the help she deserves? You don't think Iceland has a better chance with that? The thing is, Daria is basically a textbook example of people who are repeatedly reassigned without an audience with the Icelandic government. Over the years the Icelandic government has been reimburseing people, particularly into the broken defense systems of Greece, Italy, and Hungary, contrary to what is best for the people, on the contrary, for the best of these countries. They do so at high cost, as was shown in the written reply of a justice minister earlier this week. It costs two million to take each fugitive out of the country by force. This two million - time government is here to violate people's human rights. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Rasism is a systematic phenomenon, and it appears everywhere. [[The president calls.]] It is expressed to individuals without any conscious decision to use it. [[The president calls.]] Resentment of shelterers into broken protective systems throughout Europe is one of the most clear manifestations of systemsism in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u13	A respectable president. At last, long-term contracts between the European Union and the Community of Health Services and Iceland's Medical Insurance on Nurse Services have reached long-term contracts. This is a three - year contract that accounts for a total of 130 billion. The agreements stipulate additional funds for nursing and improved services to the population. In addition, services should be extended to those who need most of the care by means of increased donations in the budget. The contract also guarantees extra funds to a small nursing facility. Then I am especially glad that the contract has a contract to help support the resources for younger people who need the services of nurses and those who have mental and addictive disorders. This is an important assignment, and it is a joy to have a close personal interest in this group. The agreements are with all 45 nurses who work around the country in agreement with Iceland's Medical Insurance and are satisfied. Along with the contracts, parties have agreed to sit down at the Health Department table to discuss the development of nursing operations by the staff for a review of the Food and Credit System for Nurses. A health minister has declared that he will use himself to set up a staff under the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the provision of nursing homes in general. With these long - awaited contracts, there has been a significant goal of stability and awareness in the management of nursing homes over the years. That's good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u14	A respectable president. Due to a misdirected discussion about a community bank here at the council these past few days, I contacted my friend Wolfram Morales yesterday, who is the director of the Sparkasse Bank in Germany. He told me: Sparkasse has 50 million Germans as customers. It's not just a cute little bank. The Sparkasse banks and the German collaborators have about 70 to 75% of the market in Germany. German private banks, with Deutsche Bank in the lead, have about 25% of the market share. So remarkable is the profits of Sparkasse and the cohesion banks greater than those of their own bank. This is clearly because they don't pay a bonus, and they're not eating gold, and they don't go around on private jets. They are simply more practical. Clearly, there is great competition in the German markets because of their banks. It is thus cheap to be a customer of a bank in Germany. Consider another example: In Britain, there are four private banks, the market manager. They control every price at the British BankExchange. There's no competition like Iceland. In Britain, therefore, banking services are more expensive than in Germany, because of lack of competition. The public in Iceland doesn't want to sell the banks, but in spite of that, the current government's policy is to the private resources of Iceland banking. From now on, we are left with a unique banking system, a banking system with a uniform tenant policy, and we have all our eggs in the same basket that is clearly fragile. [[The president calls.]] Diversity on the market creates stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u15	Mr. President. This morning's message from the Bank Office is, in effect, an open meeting: you all have to learn from this. People have simply failed to understand how open this closed invitation was. This statement will judge itself, but there is, of course, a lesson that can be learned from the bank sale. He is that this is what happens when we yield to the independents'handling of government funds and property funds. This is what happens when independence is directed. There are no rules or shifts in the process, and things are somehow changing. Still, rules based on few long - term investors lead to many short - term investors putting into their pocket the profits of letters that they were given by discounting. This is not the first such financial scandal that has to do with the nation's independent financial management and is not the last if the funds continue to continue. Mr. President. This is not the law of nature. You can think of a world without the control of independents or less everything, for there are two identifying marks of the rule of independence: there are waiting lists and discounts. For the common people, discounts for rich people, models for old people who need normal service after a long life, discounts for rich people who buy letters in Iceland banks, waives for older people according to normal health care services, discounts for wealthy people who run the big business. But this is not the law of nature, Mr. President. Independence does not necessarily have a denial of contributions to welfare. Other groups can come together for the government of the country, and there is really no basis for us to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u16	President. V.E.G. A health minister has answered two questions about the use of antipsychotics in the most vulnerable groups in the community. Results are striking. The use of antipsychotics in children has increased substantially since 2012 in all age groups. The percentage has increased from 12% to less than 25% of children. In Iceland, 1 out of every 4 children between 14 and 17 years of age are now taking one or more antipsychotic medicines. In Iceland alone, less than 19% of children between 10 and 13 years of age are on antipsychotic medication. Is it not of concern that the use of antipsychotics, some of which are addictive, has increased so much among children in recent years? In the 2017 report, the European Medicines Agency has shown that this method of administration is a consequence of not offering adequate resources in Iceland. Furthermore, even though the first treatment and the most effective measures for anxiety, for example, should always be inclusive, a mental - health service is not overreached. It is an neglect on the part of the government that does not put the appropriate measures for children in the first place despite being well aware of this frightening development. But what about the elderly? In answer to the highest. Health Ministers tell us that 70% of people in nursing homes are in one or more antipsychotic medications. The response, says the study, shows the importance of especially prescribing antipsychotics to elderly ones and building on an accurate mental examination. In 2018, researchers found that in the medical journal, 18% of the people in the nursing homes of the country used antipsychotic drugs to take regularly without mental diagnosis. Even so, the answer is the highest. Healthcare Minister, with the permission of a president: a specific review of the prescription for the elderly in nursing homes is not to be expected at this time. It's strange to be the highest. A minister does not want to review a prescription for the elderly in nursing homes. That my knowledge of medication should be reviewed at regular intervals, especially in view of the number of medicines that are not analysed. [[The president calls.]] The solutions appear to be medicinal products, medicinal products, and more medicinal products rather than measures, patches instead of complete needleing and long-term solutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it really a course we can accept?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u17	Mr. President. In the fall of 2020, the General Assembly agreed to a request to the State Reconnaissance that included taking up the tax on agricultural products. A significant increase in the import of many agricultural equipment has been observed in the past several months, talking about the exported amount of the same products to Iceland from several major business countries. Last February, a government review returned its report, and I'm aware that it was at least covered by a board of administrations and monitoring committees. It's even in it. in the opinion of the Government Accounts that the ability of tax reforms to deal with bigger and more complex issues has been reduced, which has prevented premeditated customs authorities from caring for their desired role. This is somewhat significant of one of the most important administrations in the country. Therefore, a reorganization believes that reorganization needs to be reorganized and to promote tax customs. Furthermore, the National Review of the Treaty directed to the tax that agrienvironment schemes would be done more extensively and that the tax project would be carried out. The Agency then felt that a reorganization of the tax and taxation department would require reorganization. Mr. President. The government is to enforce the law and to protect its equalitarians against them. It is also up to them to enforce treaties. If this environment exists in a way that is not present, such changes need to be made formally, legislation, or other governmental directives. Government reviews also made it critical in the way the tax responded to comments from stakeholders. This is also what I think needs to be taken seriously by the management system. In the end, I intend to direct written inquiries to the minister of finance on this matter because all stones need to be rolled around.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u18	President. At this morning's hearing and seeing black in white that the Bank Office's role was to implement the financial minister's decisions in sales at Iceland Bank. The government made a decision on the sale and implementation of banks in public, the Bank Office carried out. The biggest problem with this export was that she served not the interests of the public who owned the bank, but the interests of the few. At a minister's conference on economic matters, where the prime minister, financial minister, and business minister are assembled, the idea of a closed invitation was presented without any rules of interest in handling the sale. This morning's meeting also showed that the hall was in complete blind flight. Bank and financial secretary claims to have no idea who the buyers were. They just appeared from heaven, a list of all kinds of people, and funny little amounts of money. The list just fell into the arms of a financial minister. But the arts look like real witnesses because close cooperation with the secretary of finance and the bank office did not provide any guidelines, no rules, no conditions. Therefore, the government now constantly speaks of an arm - long decision, but the Bankisar's memo reports a great deal of communication with the Ministry of finance from the introduction of the sale in January to March's end. The Ministry's representatives were at the meetings of the Banka County when it was decided to engage in an invitation, on meetings until a subscription was closed. On the night of the auction, the Bank Office and the Ministry were in close cooperation, on the day of sales itself. There was no arm length, there was at least The shortest hands in the world. Hence, the independent party now speaks of the need to look at the big picture. But 83% of the nation sees the big picture. The government has fallen because people see and understand the big picture. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u19	A respectable president. It is good to ask ourselves from time to time what is required of us. It has been emphasized today that we are here in public service, and I'm fairly certain of that, after making an informal survey among the brothers and sisters at the council, most agree that most of them agree on our dramatic and incredibly simple key objective in the Gang of the people: the people first, so much the rest. What is the meaning of that statement? That, including, is what it means. That we may not suffer here in great distress, in great poverty, and in great anguish thousands, and tens of thousands of our countrymen. It is the priority of all of us to correct it. With all due respect to what I read on this afternoon's program - there's a number of things about the EEA contract, the induction, protection and energy focus, the Marine School of Accidents, the Free Jobs and Farms Convention in the EEA, loss of licenses, European long-term investment funds and other things. I would have liked to see more time spent in the basic purpose of all of us, common to each other. I challenge all those sitting here on the front row, of independence, of the Left Green, of the Archipelago, of the Central Party, and of all the members of the council, that we may have the privilege of returning the pies until later to put the key points, the most important things in the community, to the program of this council before the end of the council. Then let us use the summer to settle for the next assembly, and may it be the gift and the good and the unity of a council, if God promises.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u20	Mr. President. There is reason to draw the attention of the General Assembly now in the leading of rural elections that it can be viewed as different from the so - called transport problem of the capital area in Reykjavík, especially by the mayor's section. In fact, it was clear that as soon as this agreement was made, the current secretary of transportation, and so the government, all of them had been deceived by the mayor of Reykjavík. It was so early in the day that the suspect was found correct, at least two presidents of the Governing Body of Reykjavík have publicly declared that there is no intention of fulfilling the part of the agreement that the government used to justify the whole agreement, especially 50 billion dollars. the first payment to fulfill the campaign for the United States of New York City. Nevertheless, it is clear that despite the 50 billion dollars, this city line of business is in complete uncertainty. contributes to the implementation. But it adds that the mayor of Reykjavík or more of it has repeatedly stated that it does not stand to meet the overall agreement, probably only part of it. And now we see in a campaign policy, including the obvious and, of course, of the Union in Reykjavík, that by elections, they intend to confirm, confirm that the agreement will not be passed. But what will the government do? It will likely only continue to pay the ransom, even though the solution is not provided.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u21	A respectable president. This morning's meeting with the Bank Office was illuminating in many ways. But still there is no question whether, throughout this process, healthy business practices have been performed, whether or not the rules have been broken somewhere along the way. Of course, when we trust the bank for property sale, such as Iceland Bank accounts, it is very important that we experience the trust that it is possible. It's obvious that it hasn't worked out. The source of information would have had to be much more detailed and better for all of us. The SEC is looking at the behavior of the five national sales managers hired by the Bank Management Board to work on the invitation to Iceland Bank. It is, in fact, there. to see if there are any conflicting interests, whether the employees of some sales counselors themselves have participated in the auction or in any of them that are close to them. These are big questions we need to know. But we also need to recognize that we are expected to reevaluate the law, and it is already a matter of reevaluation of the International Assembly to the State's ownership of financial assets. This morning, I was concerned that the Bank Office could not get information about investors who made offers and even had committed themselves to the purchases. This too raises questions as to whether the law needs to be changed. At least we need to keep this in mind, in my opinion. I am also thinking about this meeting, especially regarding the selection of oers because in the EU Regulation there are two investors required, i.e. A- and B-concerned investors and, in view of all the findings, may be asked whether it would be wise to have only those who fell under the A-investment which would have been less prophets. It could have affected prices, I'm not wondering, but I think it would have been more convenient. On the budget board, we continue to look for information on the subject and on how everyone is involved. On Friday, the secretary of finance will appear before the committee for answers, and then, when the decision of the State Reconnaissance and SEC is established, it is not likely that the committee will take the case back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u22	President. We're about to vote for the prolongation of a meeting tonight, which is such as good and blessed by itself except for the strange events that are happening tonight; two of the board groups, hear you, are having a big social event. [[For example, consider this: It's very strange.]] It's strange, especially at the time when members of the council should be attending a meeting they're asking for to stand late at night. Isn't that weird? I would think so. That's, I know, a meeting out here on the Eastfield Saturday at two o'clock where no member of the board shows up, maybe you can have it at the time. [[Up front.]] I would suggest that, at least, instead of having a meeting tonight. If the board members want to have a meeting tonight, they can skip their social meetings and just move them over on Saturday at two o'clock, when they're not going to have a conference here in the Eastfield anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u23	A respectable president. I've never heard such confusion; like that you can't have a meeting when it's a political social meeting. [[Up front.]] It's just that I'm at the Pirates' place where nobody shows up when the senators don't make it. It is different with other political parties, where many are involved in reelections and people have active social functions. It is not a meeting, even if the district attorney is at work. Sometimes members of Parliament can also share in such activities. I have to say that, topv. President, there's no need to worry about social meetings in political organizations for tonight's conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u24	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance comes up as a smart old man. I'm glad he's fine. But it is a matter of growth that the second body of directors, who have already announced a social meeting tonight, announces that the entire body will meet with the head of the party, who will explain the outcome. The secretary of finance sold public property to his father in subservation. The other party has a social meeting, where the chairman of its party and other members of Congress intend to attend. But here at the Council, members of the Parliament are expected to attend meetings when they are held according to the council. It's not a choice. We're supposed to be here when we're meeting together. We have a meeting to attend, which is why this is being brought to the attention. It's very normal that the government groups have to have a crisis meeting with their people, end up crazy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But why not celebrate some meeting if they're not going to be here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u25	President. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir did quite well over this in his talk here before me. Surprisingly, when there are large meetings, subversive meetings in which senators and presidents are announced - understandable, the government has fallen. Understandably, people need to meet and converse with their grass roots. But if people aren't going to show up, if the members of the board aren't coming to a meeting, they're not going to work, I don't understand why they're giving us a longer conference. This sums up the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u26	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with what. Vala Helgadóttir. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I didn't understand the highest. The secretary of finance is different from the fact that there will be a meeting of members of the council at these social meetings tonight and they will be attending the Assembly Hall. On the other hand, I would like to point out exactly what has been said here, which is that there is no free attendance at a council meeting on the part of the council. It's an obligation to attend under the rule of the General Assembly. The program is facing issues that we in our memory have already described tremendous opposition, and we want to talk to the greater part of it. It is absolutely unacceptable to intend to leave us here, the smaller part, alone to fight and be ashamed of something that the greater part may not even be talking to us. So I can't see that there is a basis for a longer conference here today to discuss a matter that we've made quite clear that will not be allowed to go through in an easy way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u27	A respectable president. That is truly interesting what has been presented here. The members of Parliament who have come up here and spoke for obligatory duties and spoke of their failure to attend meetings - are these members of the council who at all times are at all times in any assembly? It's good to know. I don't know what you're talking about. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir sits here all the time glued to her seat during a meeting. However, if she makes a promise to us, it will be interesting to observe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u28	Mr. President. It is unusual that there is much work to be done for members of the council and that we need to divide it between ourselves during our long conferences, to do subversive work, and to talk to people in our community all over town during the most unlikely hours of the day. However, there is much to be done here today during the remaining days of this assembly week. I personally feel that it is no problem to do both my job as a senator and to care for my associates in the company. We exchange our actions on what committees we sit on and what subjects are on the schedule in this room. So I feel the monopoly that we're going to have a meeting tonight, and I think it's gonna be just fun and I'm sure we're gonna have a really good discussion here tonight. So I'll vote for it by having an extended assembly meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to take my heart to the company of my fellow group, the Steinunn Árnadóttir, and it pleases me a lot, and I gladly vote with a long meeting. There have been quite interesting discussions and conversations in the past night, and like the other night, we, of course, will be participating in the conversations we have to participate in, of course, in the left green. What I want to point out, however, in this context that may have been overlooked by someone here, is that there are, of course, rural elections coming in, and there are things to discuss in the backland. I trust this is done in all political movements, and that is one of the things we are going to discuss tonight, e.g.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u30	Mr. President. Seems to me there's a pretty big time to get ready for country elections. We're taking a six-month vacation from a council meeting. [[Up front.]] However, the Supreme Court is correct. Secretary of the budget that meetings can be held even if there are intervening meetings in a town. What interests me now is that the entire council of the left green with counsellors and chairman is at a meeting tonight, when I would have thought that were particularly dear to them and that they wanted to get their views there, which is 595th. I think it is only natural that at the time when most people can participate in the discussion, they have excessive and conflicting views. Yes, Mr. President, it looks like it's an awful lot of time to prepare for your country elections. We're taking a six-month vacation from council meetings. However, the Supreme Court is absolutely right. Secretary of the budget that meetings can be held even if there are intervening meetings in a town.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u31	Mr. President. Whether the members of the administrations are in a house or not may not make any difference, little is spoken in politics on a daily basis, so the situation is not the most necessary. But what is the need for a longer conference? It was just a nice walk in last night's discussion. We made it through a few things, and the President is no more stressful than the next few days, so he's going to take two, two and a half hours tomorrow to report the Environment Minister on the energy report that we took a very special discussion about two months ago. I'm sorry, Mr President, but what time is it missing? What aspects of the program are so urgent that we must find out how to discuss them tonight? Can a president tell us about this? [[Up front.]] Or could he, in order to address the concerns of us who are with the human rights of fleeing people, and to show a good desire to take that matter off the program? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to agree to a long meeting if the president would take it off the program, thus promising that it would not be discussed today. [[The president calls.]] Is the President ready to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u32	A respectable president. Of course, I support a long conference. Although there are social meetings with the political parties all over the country, it is only natural for us to be able to work at the council at the same time. It's a forwarding society operating in most of the rural areas, and it would be difficult if there was a meeting at all times. On the other hand, I do not know that there are many cases waiting to be done. The last meeting of the Presidency Committee this morning discussed the importance of the time for reporters to be told. The more we come to the fore for a intermission case that is now ahead of the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u33	A respectable president. I support a long conference. I like to be here, especially at night. I'm going to describe my joy with that, if that's my suggestion, that we get to the 14th on the program tonight. So, there's something new. It hasn't happened in quite a while that things have been moving a lot. It happened last night, indeed, the only thing that got a little complicated, which is very satisfying because there are a lot of things I believe that we agree that the need to go through; the job rights of foreigners, we're here to sue in mourning licenses and other things I believe that governments and government members alike are willing to discuss. So there's a lot going on here today, and I'm going to see now that our team is going to be like this here at the Senate Hall that we're going to make it into the controversial issue of No. 14th But there is a discussion about it as well as other matters under it. They're good and they need to be called. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u34	A respectable president. I believe there will be an extended conference. But I've got to admit, I've become a little abbot now. Now, the leading members of the nation have taken up here one by one and advertised social meetings in the Constitution. I wish that the next time an advance keeps a social meeting in a town, he'll be advertised here for ten minutes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] How much is the minute in the media? Just, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u35	A respectable president. Is it all about us, whether we'll be at work, who shows up, and how often, and who talks the most? Is this not about the society that we are elected to lead? About the issues? Working for the people who chose us? There are a lot of subjects waiting on the program. It was kind of dependent on the president for his plans to do a program tomorrow with a green energy book. I think that's just one of the biggest security issues, the economy and the environment that are being discussed here in society. Although we'd take one, two days to do it, I don't think it would be too much in the time of day. Let's talk about the issues and the important things, not playing this sandbox about whether we can go to work or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u36	Mr. President. Only after that. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said there's nothing wrong with discussing energy here in the conference hall. However, if time is some luxury plan today that we need to extend a meeting to get more of it, we may be able to rethink the plans to save two and a half hours tomorrow of a valuable meeting period in discussing a report that has been discussed in the conference room once. Let's talk about it again, let's just do it when there's time. Otherwise, I just want to point out a word. The vice president of a council of the Left Green, who described his pleasure with it if we got into the foreign language today and then said that if we got into the controversial issue of No. 14, as well as other matters - they are good and need to be called. They're good, they need to get to a committee. That's what people have become. This is how people are helped to deal with disgusting cases in the name of a government team that should be long dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u37	A respectable president. I have to say, I feel that this is the case where members of Congress come up and talk about gross cases, good business, bad business -- aren't all the issues we have to discuss at the council and are being suggested and involved in the lives of the people of the country? I feel like I can just stay here, that's our job. Of course we can just disappear here. I'm not worried about that, not a few. All we have to do is our duties here as senators. We're supposed to take it seriously, and we're supposed to watch the speech here in a punk. And then I'd like to point out that I really don't have much cooperation vision here, but it's certainly growing in Congress, so that hopefully it'll just continue over the years and decades to get more cooperation. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u38	Mr. President. The duration of a council meeting. Yes, I vote by allowing us to have a longer conference, but I would like to state that if this is the case, I am both kind and obliged to do so. 16 will be here on the program, and I will be able to do all the work out of the left movement's social gatherings, knowing that this is a full understanding of our grass roots. Actually, I don't have much faith in the fact that the program will flow so smoothly today, but it won't be my responsibility to attend a meeting. As vice president who spends a long time listening to my fine conduct in this hall, there are now not always a crowded class, no government or government opposition, because the nature of the matter as we are doing other jobs, and we all know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u39	Forethought is to make dinner break between hours. 1830 and 1930 this evening for a meeting foretold by the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u40	President. What has been discussed frequently in this platform and also in the President's conference administration are the words of the Commission in which he is accusing the government's opposition to distrust the National Review when we say that the matter is established on the grounds of a financial minister. From the secretary of finance came a request for this assessment as follows: ▪ In accordance with state accountant legislation and a review of state accounts, the state-examiner has included a national accountant's opinion. the role of monitoring the implementation of contracts made with private partners and monitoring the activities and effectiveness of the Member State. This is essential to the secretary of finance. That's where he's pointing out what he thinks he's doing. This is what we make a comment to. It's not all the trade process, it's just this part. This is the key to our point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u41	Mr. President. I'm gonna say it again one more time I've said it here before. A government accountant has taken up the demand and must advise to make assessments, therefore on certain law columns, the operation of certain institutions, etc. I think that it is a principle for a state accountant to grant that request, but it is always prerogative that the opinion, the review is based on the state accountant's opinion and that he thinks it is wise. This is not done after some prescription of a minister or Ministry. To say otherwise is not merely misleading; it is a direct delusion designed to throw dust into the eyes of the common people. [[The president calls.]] A national accountant is and becomes independent in all his work, and it is the role of this institution to protect that independence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u42	A respectable president. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says it's unusual for the Minister and Ministry to request a state reexamination. Then it is not unusual for a minister to request that he begin an investigation of the Ministry's work. It is known that the Minister's Accounting is requested by the Minister to initiate a inspection of the Ministry's Subcommittee. Take, for example, the highest. Minister of Justice wishes to examine U.S. Marshals' cars. Is it on the table, Minister? No. Iceland Banker, is she at the table minister? Yeah. Watched people at the highest. Minister with that process all night and night? Yeah. Is the arrival of a minister bound to the law on sale at a share in Iceland Bank? Yeah. Does he need to confirm the process from beginning to end at all levels, select sales managers, method, and who will be allowed to buy? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yeah. At what price? [[The president calls.]] Yeah. He's asking for an investigation on his job. It's amazing. A senator did not realize the difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u43	President. It is only natural that independence cannot be understood. I'm saying this is the problem the Minister is pointing to, this is the problem he thinks is in this, i.e. implementing contracts made with private people, not with which access to the case was made. Just as he's pointed out the problem with the governor's rental, etc., he's pointing out something. This is a minister's assessment, of what he's pointing out. I have full faith that Government Accounting will do its job. We're pointing out that the secretary of finance says this is the problem. He certainly does not look at his own potential inadequacy and failure. He doesn't point out that. He does not say: Please check the sales from A to O, for all sources. If it was a minister's idea of putting up with him, I wouldn't have anything to do with this, not at all. [[The president calls.]] But there he points to making deals with private people. It's there with these sales agents and counselors and possibly with the Bank Office, etc., not with the Minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have full faith that a government reexamination will do this in its own uniquely brilliant manner. [[The president calls.]] But I'll make a note of these conditions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u44	President. I'd like to remember if there's no clothes on the weapons in this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir In conversation yesterday or yesterday, Bergþór Ólafsson proposed that the president examine an example that would suggest a similar investigation that would not have passed through the council, if I recall correctly. So I'm referring to a president as to whether he or she's been examined in that way. A senator suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u45	A respectable president. I'm sure it'll be a lot of fun with a public accountant when he starts to revise this bank sales. Wine bottles, fireworks, chocolate boxes, we need to see, don't we? Lunch and dinner. This must be a very difficult task, and maybe fun, perhaps a dinner or a fireworks or a box of chocolates. How, though, would he consider that there were 200 people who bought at this last invitation and the average cost of $3.3 million per person if everything is fully paid? Take a look at this number. One phone call, one e-mail, 3.3 million. At the same time, there are people out there who don't have food. Food is rising and rising. But what is the government doing for the people? No, it's not the people first. They're the rich first, and the others can eat what's out of the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to point out that according to an announcement received from a state accountant the other day, his investigation will be 2 mgr. Section 8. the law on a state accountant who is a taxpayer, and it's about that a government accountant can collect a fee for certain observations that are under attack. I would find it interesting to hear from those who speak the most about this aspect of the matter and to express the depth of satisfaction that a government inspection is taking a look at it and that the initiative is being taken in this way from a financial minister. I would be rather upset to hear an explanation about this and to see if the members of Congress know how this payment is going to be done. Similarly, the bill's report on a state accountant's application in comments on this particular requirement suggests that a discussion with the Presidency Committee on these observations is expected. I'd like to ask the highest. The general president of the Council for which this consultation is being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u47	The president may inform me that I have not been contacted by a prime committee on account of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u48	Mr. President. Let's just talk clearly here, let's just talk about what this case is about. The majority have talked a lot about a public accountant being trusted, and he's great, and we all agree on that. The majority have not at any point explained why they do not want it to be made up of the Allied Research Committee. That's never been explained. There's never been a lack of logic. If it had been agreed to, if it had only been attacked at the outset, we wouldn't be standing here. Then we wouldn't be arguing about it. Then the nation's trust could not be at the minimum of what it is right now. But why doesn't the government want the General Research Committee? Because the results of the General Assembly committee could put this government at risk. It is unlikely that a government accountant's investigation will. Let's just be clear on the subject. Let's be honest here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u49	President. I just wanted to take a break from the discussions about Iceland Bank and talk about today's program and take advantage of the opportunity because there are both presidents and the Supreme Officers in this room. Minister of Justice. Today's program is a matter that is not to be taken into account that the government situation has described great doubts and opposition to the 14th issue of international protection. I just have to say, I think it's really bad that for a week that's short, because we're trying to deal with certain issues that are even dates, they're putting such a bill on the program. It will only cause nothing to move until that matter has been canceled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u50	Dates are at the front of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u51	Mr. President. Requesting max. The secretary of finance was that the State's Accounting would review whether or not the law and good government had been implemented in sales at the Bank of Iceland. That's it. The letter by a State Accounter shows that he quotes from Article 1. law of a state accountant, that a state accountant is independent, subject to no one in his work, and will personally determine how he plays his role in the law. Talking then here as if they've done in recent days, as if a state accountant is making an assessment on some grounds of a financial minister, of course, is a trivial saying and should be turned off by men. [[The president calls.]] I wish you would, highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u52	Mr. President. I'm not going to say a lot. I hear people need a lot of meetings today. But because of him. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson here spoke of a trivial presentation, and I would like to express how sorry I am about the fact that council members, in their defense against the normal requirement that this committee be assigned to go into the stitches on this matter, should be reassigned to members of the Parliament, including me probable members of the NTSB, to mistrust, to speak badly, to speak badly of, to show the disrespect of the ideal institution, to the Government's opinion. If this is a rationalization that the Council thinks is right and good, I understand why people can't sell banks to make fun of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u53	A respectable president. I just don't know that a few senators claimed to have mistrusted the State Accounting. On the other hand, we wondered what authority the State Accounts are for this matter and investigate it. I can say, however, that I don't trust the F.O.S.A. completely. Its history is a blood drive from before collapse, and nothing has improved since that. So I don't completely doubt it, and I'm not going to hide it. It's about trust, it's about rebuilding trust. And to avoid all these discussions and everything that has taken place in these last days simply to get conclusions that everyone trusts, a board of research committees with vast authority to take over this matter. This is not to say that the Government Accounting has the same authority as such a research committee would have. I'm just waiting for a lawsuit like this because if anyone's trying to confuse the public, it's the people who have a lawsuit like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u54	Mr. President. It's kind of amazing to be following this discussion around here. I've come up here to remind me of a talk I gave here yesterday, and I've encouraged senators to find inside the Cathedral page if they weren't in the hall, which is amazing, according to earlier words, or if they simply didn't hear my words. But I'll just take a quote. I'm going to refer to law No. 68/2011, for study committees: ▪ The distribution of the research committee is a means to be used only if alone is shown that the standard of research methods cannot be used. It's not conclusive that it can't be done. We haven't said there's not gonna be a board of inquiry. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] We're clearing out other options first. You can't say that clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u55	A respectable president. First, I'd like to be happy to know that there has been an approved proposal on the length of a meeting earlier. I think it's important, especially in the light of the way this discussion begins here at the council today, a familiar situation in the past few weeks, and quite clear that we need to make the most of our time. I encourage a president to have a meeting as long as necessary to set up these matters. It's getting rough around here, but it's nice to have something done here. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson earlier that if the program they are going to take up is held here, someone in the opposition, nothing will be moved. That's what this is about. This is all the respect for democracy among these minority groups or members of the minority who think and speak so. Here is a suggestion that this matter should not be addressed. This is the case with the rest of it. Most members of the council support this matter, and it is important that it be scheduled, a respectable president, and I encourage it to be planned first at a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u56	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir I'm sorry, my Skúladóttir Jódís Sahili has left the hall, so her second words cannot be refuted from yesterday, and I expect her to listen only to an ancient man. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. Only in terms of that as a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said about 1st Gr. Act of state accountants, but Óli Björn Kárason has also left the hall. That's all there is to look at at, like, 17. which is about the fact that the Commission and monitoring committee may request the establishment of the State Re-Election and State Review Report and that the regulations also apply if nine members request a report or investigation. There is nothing in the law of Government Accounting that allows Ministers to insist, nothing. A public review will take place on the initiative, which means that the management and monitoring committee is to do so, or if nine members of the Parliament want a national review to go to an investigation. Let us just keep that law in its place. A senator read up here is just one of the laws on Government Accounting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u57	A respectable president. The requirement for forming the General Research Committee is very grammatically required. In 1st. a law on research committees says, by permission of the President: In order to investigate the issues of an important matter that concerns the public, the General Assembly will appoint a research committee for the Generals. The bank at Iceland Bank is a very important subject. It sells government property for 52.6 billion dollars. and it truly has to do with the public. It shows surveys. 83% of the population is unhappy with this sale. I was at a hearing with the legal committee this morning and I'm just saying right now. I've never been in anything like this before. It seems that the government banking agency has not put aside how this sale should be performed in any way. [[The president calls.]] The only document we've received was a document from law firm White & Case in London and they don't seem to have checked one factor and they know what, disagreement with the sales advisors, should go to court in London, not Icelandic courts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u58	Mr. President. I'm going to call back because the members of the greater part might explain to us in some reasonable way why they can't appoint the World Council investigation Committee. Then I'd like to correct what was said in the case of the day. paritaprevir That's why Jódís Skúladóttir here said that the more part had not rejected it. That's not true. We have already offered the greater part to complete a government accountant's study provided the NTSB can be given the initiative of the smaller part. It was refused. It is clear, then, that we have presented very clear and very reasonable evidence that there will be a committee of inquiry. We've explained why a committee has to be appointed, and it's about authority. I have to say the same thing I've been told to say here, that I'm sorry I'm talking about the fact that we're saying that we're saying we're having a mistrust in the Government Accounting. It's never been done. [[The president calls.]] No one here has. Nor is it that all research clearances in the world must somehow be cleared before a research committee is appointed. [[The president calls.]] This was not done when a research committee was formed after a crash. That's not necessary this time. There's a premium, there's delays. [[The president calls.]] I demand that the more part come up here and explain why they won't see the General Commission on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u59	A respectable president. As I reviewed earlier, the Government Accounting Committee's review is based on reimbursement warrants, and according to the legal accounts of that source, it is expected to agree with the Presidency Committee, to the highest level. The president of the Generalis has now confirmed that it has not been taken place. Now it may be possible that some institutions, etc., have developed some sort of practice, that Ministers wish for administration to handle certain factors, at certain institutions etc., but I think that everyone must see that it is simply not reassuring and not a good thing about the person who himself had custody of these bank sales - that there is some sort of investigation really on the grounds that he himself wishes. The government accountant's law is very clear about the source of the authority to take the initiative in such an examination. [[The president calls.]] It's from the council. That channel is much more stable than the one around which a person may have developed a habit. [[The president calls.]] So it is not only about what is right in the law but also about trust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u60	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm beginning to be really worried about the council's activities, which are repeated here, yes, certainly a serious subject on the program at the end of the meeting with the President who has been regularly scheduled for the council and at open meetings of legal committees and elsewhere. So this case has been received, and this discussion has taken place - while the President's conference board is abused to address issues that delay other important issues on the program, many of which are waiting and taking much interest in society. Then it's just reported here, as long as some matter of the government doesn't want to talk about materially here - if the alien language is such a bad thing, why don't we just discuss it here materially, just next on the program, and let us know what's so bad about this matter, what we can make up, and give people time to make time to make comments about it, have some discussion in the Senate committee? [[The president calls.]] No, then the government's purpose is to take the power into its own hands, which it does not have according to elections, and to make sure that the matter is not taken up once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u61	A respectable president. I can't say that I was any closer after listening to a panel meeting with the Bank Office this morning. All that was said on the bank business was in no way able to explain matters. This refers to a review of the law as to whether the law was broken and whether it was a good administrative procedure. I think they're just gonna get away with this, that there's nothing wrong with the law. Let us not forget that there are thousands of people in the community who lost everything on these banks. They had nothing left for the conduct of a bank, and it is only natural that in the community there is a suspicion of such a sale at a bank right now. [[The president calls.]] It's just been a bit illegal. We can see that there are people at the table who were involved in putting the community on the head. [[The president calls.]] We owe these people that we are on their side and support them in the struggle to carry out justice here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u62	President. I come up to answer a little bit. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who came here earlier, declared that she had every desire to go on that basis to set up an investigational committee when the current studies of a government accountant and the FESI have ended. I'm going to let her enjoy the doubt, and I'm going to assume that she has a whole heart to say it, and it comes from her heart that she wants to do it. But I feel that it is important that we realize that it is not in control alone. What is actually asking us to do in the opposition is somehow to rely on the greater proportion of things, which have a great interest in defending their government, their minister, will decide to set up a research committee. It's all there is; all of this: the whole study, State Accounting, UNEP, all of this study, in the hands of most of it. This is the major part that has taken up the decision which way we will go in this study, and that is the larger part that will decide if there is a need for a research committee, and everyone will see. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This doesn't make any sense. There is no difference in taking no account of the government's situation in this matter and that the whole investigation and decisions on it are the basis of the greater part. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u63	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear thatGuðbrandur Einarsson This morning our meeting in the budget has been found without merit, and it is also too boring to hear the reason. Ármannsson " I don't think anything came out of that meeting, " he says. I have to disagree. I found this morning's budget hearing very helpful, and I want to encourage people out there who want to learn about the bank sale to listen to the meeting and read Bank County report. It is important to remember in this that, of course, the big issue is to protect the interests of the State, to take care of the bank property and money. So it was a real pleasure to hear that they sold out more money, more money came into the Kingdom box than they had originally planned. That's not what I'm saying I'm okay with everything that came out there. There's just something that we need to take a closer look at, what the F.O.S.A. is looking at. That's why it's so important that the State Department completes its research and at the same time that it's done by Government Review and we get all of this on the table. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are to ask questions and get the answers, but we must also appreciate the meetings and answers we receive and take into account the background. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u64	President. I'm here to say the word with what. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir, asks, "What are the reasons why we don't want to appoint the World Council Control Committee? " As we sit here, we'd like to argue. The people want to argue. I wondered: " How will the government rebuild the trust, trust of the nation, and confidence of the government, the trust of the council? In view of their new polls, is it not a concern for the government to regain the trust that they have apparently lost? And I wondered, " What am I doing without a committee of inquiry, showing that everything was done well or that everything was taken care of? ' I just don't quite understand why.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u65	A respectable president. Here comes a member of the governor of the United States, expressing a firm support and confidence in a government accountant at the same time, and there is some way in which a particular investigation was carried out. And because of what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson here points to a paper on Public Reexamination, and I would like to point out that it is quite clear according to the same law that a state accountant is completely independent and independent of his work and that he has nothing, exactly nothing to do with the manner of a particular investigation. Also, I would like to mention that it seems to have left the Senate Hall only in the council members. I'm just hoping it's not a social meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u66	A respectable president. A great deal of this is called upon by the arguments and arguments of the rulers for not calling a special research committee. I don't know any better than it's been published. That's what they've been talking about for a few weeks. The minister of finance immediately mentioned the reasons for the Passover. One of the reasons is, and I mentioned it here in a pontta yesterday, that the State Accounting can and has begun an independent assessment of the case. A government accountant is independent, subjecting no one to his work, and he has considerable and more authority to call for all the data he wishes. Hv. paritaprevir S.H., Einarsson, says that there was probably no law broken. What, then, is being called after if no law has been broken? [[The president calls.]] He's talking about code break. Then let's discuss a code of ethics, and if we're going to investigate it, we need health care professionals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u67	A respectable president. The question here is: Do we trust a government accountant? I must say, yes, there's nothing else that can be done in itself, but I feel very sorry for him. This must be a terrible situation that has already put him in. Therefore, we should rather have a research committee because a government accountant is appointed by the government and he seeks to remain a state accountant and secretary of finance is sending to him questions he is to answer for the government. I'm just saying for my part that it must be scary to be in this position. I'm thinking, what happens if he's against the government? Does he not continue to receive advice? More here at the council can determine whether or not he will stay. Therefore, it would be much closer to appoint a committee of research and to take a government accountant out of this picture, allowing him to be in an application procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u68	A respectable president. I do not comment on the progress of the members of the budget board this morning, which was very impressive. On the other hand, if you don't mind my answers, I'm not going anywhere. What we're talking about here -- when I'm talking about a break. At one time, when banks were sold, they sold the bank to themselves. They loaned each other to buy this bank. What is it when people make and talk about some great image and then sneak their friends along? Isn't that a violation of the law? Who Is Responsible? Is it the stockbroker in town, or is it Bank Office, or is it the Minister? Who Is Responsible? We hear a minister say, "The banking office is responsible, and I'm just going to shut it down. " But the Bank Board says the prize man is responsible. No one will shoulder responsibility. Can political projects be replaced and then just say, "It wasn't me, it was the other one?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u69	President. Just about this meeting this morning. I thought he was really good, like cot. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. You see, there is also an answer that is unable to answer or to have no answers, so it is illuminated to itself. But I think I can promise a president that I don't have to be a meeting at the Generals, even if there's a social meeting in the Central Party, I think it's in my eye, so I'm going to go for a reason there. Then I'm going to direct it to the President, just so informal, that there's a very important soccer game tonight. Twenty-nine, at least I do. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson and the environment, energy and climate minister - we're at least supporters of the second football team there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u70	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department on Council Reconfirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 383/2021 of the change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 383/2021 of December 10, 2021 of the change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention and to the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2019/878 in terms of persons who are familiar with this decision, financial institutions, mixed financial institutions, employment, monitoring measures and resources and measures to protect their own money. The committee discussed the matter and arranged for visitors to meet with them, as the committee noted. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. According to this, the U.S. State Department proposes that the synonym be accepted. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. Chairman Bjarni Jónsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. The honour of Gísli Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u71	Madam President. It was a pleasure to agree with the State Department's opinions, where I sit as an officer. This is especially because there is still another requirement for financial services from the European Union. It is intended, as most other regulations for financial services from the European Union, to set up the broken rule that led to the collapse 14 years ago, regulations aimed at ensuring the benefit and rights of consumers, and to stop the illegal and moral unscrupulous behaviour of investors. Yeah, sometimes something good comes from the European Union. Here, for example. They've been setting up more stable and efficient regulations around so-called holding companies. It is a term used to describe private parts that have the goal of keeping people's possessions in mind. Why, though, does it matter to have a rule around property companies? Yes, let's take a recent example. Except for the pension fund, business, and investment companies, most of the people who made an offer in Iceland bank were just a few years ago. What have these EU regulations done for us in this regard? Consider some examples. The procedure takes e.g. Around who are the real owners of such associates. The rules also define what professional investors are, and the European Union's financial rules also set up rules related to how to handle bribes or payments related to terrorism. Let's get a little deeper into this. Real owners. Why does it matter who real owners are? Yes, one reason might be to make it harder to cheat on taxes, that we can see who is really behind the particular holding society. Another reason may be to ensure a particular distribution of power. We're on land, for example. with rules that tell how high the proportion of one individual can have in fishing vehicles or in the quatane over the head. Knowing who are the real owners of the often formed complex can help you to see how true distribution is. Then there is the third reason why we can see who are actually being paid through private parts and thus handle things like payoffs and terrorist funding. Part of the rules that come with this through the European Union is just that we can easily identify who are the real owners of our partners, simply by going into the national tax manager's web, type the name of the relevant holding partner, and see who owns part of it and who owns it. Very easy, though, something I've tried to do several times when I see the names of the other tenants. Enough about real owners for now. Aesthetists, this is a term that has been widely discussed in these last days and weeks. The basic idea behind the definition of professional investors is to differentiate between whether a person is investing as a public consumer or a person with a deeper understanding of the risks involved in investments. It is important to realize that the definition of the investor is not valid. There are two differences. In fact, whether you're a professional investor is a law definition. It is pleasant to compare market and financing laws, which were updated last June, with EU regulations, from 2014 to 2017, that is exactly what the European Union's definitions are, just as we are working to establish from this Parliament-sense proposal to the Act here in Iceland. The law on financing says, with the permission of a president: Investments: A customer with experience, knowledge, and expertise to make his own decisions about investments, and an assessment of the risks involved. The law then lists which people are considered as professional investors, and with the permission of a president, I'm just going to take the big points. There are people who have employment permits on financial markets, e.g. Stock companies, it's big companies that meet certain conditions for the balance or size of an account. Interestingly, governments are also defined as professional investors and depositors. Even the World Bank is defined as professional investors. Other institutions - they're probably talking about parties like a pension fund and stuff like that. Then come the final members that have been approved as professional investors. 54. g. The law. 54th. says, by permission of the president, that there is a way to be defined as such, but at least the person needs to meet at least. two of the following conditions: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. He had significant trades at the appropriate market for the next four quarters, on average at least ten times per quarter. 2. The value of financing and the individual investor combined over 500,000 euro, relative to the official reference rate as it is recorded at one time. 3. Investments received, or served, for at least one year, a financial position requiring knowledge of a planned business or service. Then we'll know what it is to be a professional investor. That definition is exactly what we get from the European Union through this rule. Let's go over to the third piece I mentioned, the rules of payoffs and terrorist funding. All of us can discern what it is to be a terrorist and to finance it. Let's hope we don't have to deal with it here. The rules of bribes relate to making sure that people who have a strong political connection, what is called, by President's permission, are often referred to as PEP, and we can all be very a peppy over it, since we are all defined as such. The protocol that the European Union has brought to us in this regard is to make sure that it cannot be easy to get money to politicians, e.g. which are somehow getting money under the table. This means that all of our transactions that are defined under this, i.e. All our transactions, which are piping, or who are politicians, are mandatory. Business arrangements cannot be carried out unless it is flammable that the relevant business is linked to an event reported. It is important to realize that this rule is not just for me or for one thing. The members of this room also apply to my children, children - in - law, and parents. My mother bought a house the other day. She had to flaunt it. So she was horrified that she was buying a house as a member of a politician. This is true whether buying houses, shares, or buying or selling electrical coins. If I put in more than that, I think it's about 20,000 bucks. In bank bills, it needs to be flaunted. That's the rules, watching bribes, not taking place. That is true, as I also said, when companies are bought with stocks. A respectable president. These rules and regulations enable us to do the following when we, for example, are in a position to do the following. Let's choose to sell shares. First, it allows us to define an invitation to that part of the estate in such a way that only professional investors can participate. Remember again, we can thank the EU rule as we agree on it. Number two: Once offered in such invitations, it allows us to identify who is really behind the traditions that made the proposals. That was, for example, used, according to a meeting this morning, by the Bank Office, in order to stipulate them and those who made them offer by who was behind the strange names of owners. Third, this enables us to make sure that when someone making the offer is closely connected with a politician, or PEP, it is easy to flaunt. A respectable president. It is important to have a rule, so when we engage in the same major operation as selling much in one of the three banks of the country, it is done in the right way. A rule that ensures that investors can be chosen as required but also that they can also choose investors that are suitable according to the credit, the definition that we would like to have for investors. We'd like to, for example. are you getting any investors or long-term investors? We have, for example. heard that people were excluded from the invitation to Iceland Bank because, once they had been examined behind them, they were defined as triggers. You can also use the exact same thing when you see who's sitting in the back there to see if the two of them, for example. Sit on a crime investigation or use the feds to find those who are close to politicians. We can thank you for this principle and other rule coming from the European Union stopping us from messing up government sales, i.e. if we apply the good rules that the European Union has prepared for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u72	A respectable president. I don't think you can help but rejoice that there are laws on real owners and harden some rules involving terrorist activity and financial addiction that are bribes or money laundering or something like that. But I have often had the impression of collapse when this began to be stressed that all warfare is basically directed toward ordinary people, and it suffers a great deal on ordinary people who are just buying homes, living their normal lives, not making a lot of money. There's a lot of demands. The law, along with those who have an unfavourable purpose, such as houses and other such, are often parties who have very strict rules, and I often feel that the emphasis is in the wrong place. I needed, for example. To sign me as the real owner of the household's Habitat Association, which is, in fact, a completely ridiculous example. I'm not the owner of this organization. I'll never be. But this had to be done. It's an organization that has little money, and there's an organization other than this. But at the same time, e.g. Banks in private will not give up real owners. We still don't know who the real owners of Arion's banks are. That's not clear. They are exempt from this rule, but it's really where it's important to know. Hv. paritaprevir Looks like Gísli Rafn Ólafsson studied this bill well. [[The president calls.]] I don't see for myself that this is gonna change here, but maybe he can answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u73	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is a little interesting to realize that the principle around the real owners never demanded that houses be registered, who were their owners, nor their free partnerships. The reason they needed to be recorded was that those enrolled in the tax company file were required to give up the real owners. The truth is, the only way to get a registered social or community ID, you can't open a bank account unless you have a social security number, was to file your partner to the tax, and that registration ended in a company file, even if it wasn't a company account. This was often due to what the computer system said, we were using the same computer systems as houses and businesses. I agree completely with what. Senator that the fact that the real owners of banks should not be registered is an absolute time error. But it's at least By means of this directive, the holding enterprises, which are the tools of the higher resources, are being seized to hide what they are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u74	Madam President. I don't object to this bill, it's not like that. I'm just often thinking about all the obstacles, as I say, ordinary employees, ordinary people, normal families, and all the rings they have to jump through in order to own a normal business that's just part of a daily life. I sometimes feel that these powers are in the wrong direction, as we can see, for example. in a recent sales of Iceland Bank, where the Bank Department did not believe that they had the authority to find out how this would be financed and even not always know who was offering. That's what's serious and that's where it really needs to come in, from big business. But in return, it seems that there's an enormous amount of power going in, like a wag. A senator mentioned, some 20,000 bucks. 20,000 bucks. is not a lot of money today, and if you can buy someone for 20,000 bucks, well, let's just say it so that they sell their consciences very cheap. This is what I wanted to come to, that since it really matters, as in the owners of a bank, there is an exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u75	Madam President. I agree completely with what. Senator. It is also interesting to think of why this bill is being rushed here. Why is it the date issue you need to finish? Yes, it is because the United States has been admonished by relevant monitoring institutions in EFTA and the European Union for not implementing this directive rapidly enough. That's where we might find a wall. It is well known that there is a slight delay in the introduction and scope of Regulation that will be adapted to the Icelandic environment and will be involved in this process. As we sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee, we always get an overview of what is being worked on. Of course, that is so that governments each time put first the issues they want to go on. It can naturally mean that we do not have too complicated rules for those who have an endless amount of money and not prioritize to do so, but it is not prioritised by rules that weigh the public down. I'd like to talk a little more about it, and I'd like to go back to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u76	Madam President. This is where we're making rules on holding companies. In fact, it is interesting in this legislation that many of the definitions of what needs to be fixed and where to follow things are often in the sizes unknown to the Icelandic market. Here, for example. Talk about financial companies that are part of a complex with at least 40 billion euro assets in the European Economic Area. I don't know that any of the Icelandic banks are of this size. However, it is important, like the otter. paritaprevir Ásthildur Thorsdóttir's Lóa - Þórsdóttir pointed out that we have rules and regulations that deal with the things we saw, unfortunately, have been abused in the collapse. It is always that when we change the rules and free them, it seems that people make use of them to make money, often at the expense of consumers. It's important in rules like this, I mentioned, for example. under the rules for professional investors or what is in English in the EU Regulation, called ◯profesional clientes◯, to be so separate because when you are offering a share in companies it's very easy to fool people. There are old stories from over 20 years ago when Icelandic genetics were selling stock before they went public. There was a great deal of business with that stock, and if I remember correctly, the thing had come up to $60◯70, was then recorded in a market around 18 or 20, and ended in it, before it was taken and made a private company, that the object had come down for dollars. You see, selling individuals back then was very easy: Here's the next great company in Iceland, and it's worth so much. By setting up conditions such as professional investments, consumers can be protected from the fact that some salesmen are fodging on them without having enough understanding of what is being taught about them. It is very important that we work well at such things. There are few movies that we have taken care of in some cases that were simply calling people and selling them something that really didn't exist. It's just as bad, so can you sell people something that is true, but do they have enough understanding of whether the value is practical or whether the cost of what is being offered is realistic or not? That's always the question. The difference is, when you're going to such an open invitation to the public, you need to bring much more information and much more data to the public in a form that he understands to make. When working with a professional investor, you can include smaller advertisements because you expect them to be able to read those descriptions of the knowledge they have. Thus, consumer protection in financial services is something that has often been discussed, only during the weeks or months that I've been serving on the State Department, but we get all these European protocols a few times because they first come as a concierge proposal and such as prime launchers, etc. If I recall correctly, more than half of the people who have been involved in the financial sector. But it would be nice to consider it a little, perhaps some who lack literature material or projects in economics or commerce or legal matters and consider, for example, the subject of research. What the hell is that? Is there more of the regulations related to professional investments and financial institutions or consumers and consumer protection? It would be interesting to see such things because, like cot. A senator pointed out that at times we feel that there are too many rules to be set for us as consumers. Well, maybe financial companies think they're overcrowded about them, but some of them like the payment rules, called P something 2. I don't quite remember, I don't have it written down, open the fact that a so-called financial company can use banks and banks have to give them access to their systems. Part of it comes from a rule of order from the European Union. The rules are not necessarily about consumer protection. This is also to ensure competition and other factors that certainly do not come from this country, since we have only three banks, and very similar fees and services, as well as other items that they are giving. And it will be interesting to see how this will develop in the next few years as the market opens with a more powerful rulework.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u77	A respectable president. Now we've come to a case that I'm interested in, consumer protection. The rules aimed at financial companies and professional investors seem very often to be transferred to consumers; however, consumer protection is the same as none. That's exactly why I've talked about the distrust I've had in the SEC because there's no surveillance and the banks can really act like they want to do to consumers. It's seen many things. One of the things to mention in this relationship, since we're talking about professional investors and that it's not being drawn into consumers something that only professional investors should have skills to evaluate - do you know that's done every day in Iceland in securable loans? Valuable loans are complex deduction loans that are meant to be only between professional investors and between professional investors and state. Therefore, they are not available in the world, at least in the Western world, there are two countries where they are allowed, in Namibia, Africa, and I don't think they're allowed in Israel, but no one uses them. They're never available for consumers. But this is what we do every day. It's not enough, but it's just as it is now, and I'm going to get closer to it in my second answer, be directing consumers, because of the Federal Bank regulations, in the securable loans today, in the 7◯8% of inflation that is bent on two-digit inflation. It's a violation against consumers if anything is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u78	President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Yes, I can agree that some of the financial gains sold to consumers in this country are not sufficiently transparent. I heard a wrong story, I heard from a foreign investor who bought Icelandic bonds; he thought the interest was fine, so he bought it. So when he got this paid, he never understood that the Icelandic state was always paying 3, 4 or 5% more than it was. In other words, even the professional investor, this is a foreign investor, did not realize what insurance was. It's a little more complicated than we think. Since the start of my parents'living, prices have probably been in use, and Iceland and we don't know anything about it, but that's exactly what this is, it's selling us loans that raise and lower, and the inflation goes up and down, so it's twice as fast. And why are the inflation rising? Yes, because inside the inflation is the cost of housing. It is, therefore, this sort of circle that simply causes people to have less and less, or at least not more in their house as they should have done. I can come in later, answer to pension savings, e.g. special property savings. There's a big problem that we're informed about how these funds are invested.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u79	A respectable president. It's, for example. So now, in the condition of inflation and all, that all the arrangements made by the National Bank focus on ordinary people, they focus on the housing of people who are not at the market, who are not responsible, who are not to blame for this additional inflation. All this does is transfer the homes' funds directly to the bank treasury. There's nothing else that's happening there. And even Because of the insurance policy, this control device doesn't work as it should because a large proportion of the households don't feel this control device, so it needs to increase more than the rest of the population, and, as I say, it's just a circle nonsense. Another thing that the latening bank did was that he put on that rule on December 1 of the past, as some kind of national emissary scheme, that people were to be owed only 35% of provisional funds. It means that even if people pass credits and goods over them, they just come: No, you can't buy this apartment at the most favorable loans there are, no matter what anyone says, cheating loans. But they say, and I personally know where these things are, and I know where it happened, but you're on it, you're under the bounds, if you take credit. Seven percent inflation. It's reckless. It's a crime against consumers. Where is the protection against this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good answer and a good tip. I can truly agree. You see, it lacks a lot of transparency; a transparency when it comes to borrowing, a transparency when it comes to the approval of the other and those places in the financial system, and a transparency in the way of investing our pension. I know there is another European Union principle on the way through the council, a case that has been approved by the State Department, which deals with the so-called payment accounts. Now I had to look up what was a bill, but it's simply the bank account of individuals you can do, e.g. used to pay bills by, as if the name should have told me. But one of the important things is to make it easier for you to change banks and move service between banks, and also that you can easily get this service if you move abroad without perhaps having to have a unique social security number in Iceland. But there is also one short line that matters to consumers, and that will be the payment for all the financial services provided. When I learned about banks and bank accounts 150 years ago, or when I was young, I was always told that banks were driven by differences in growth and growth. So one day, they also decided to pay us all kinds of services, specialations, and today is so that we are actually paying five or six or ten times what people abroad pay for exactly the same service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u81	Madam President. I recommend a greater part of the Commission's APC for a bill to correct a legal adjustment of the law on the affairs of immigrants (the Resident's Relation of Protective Affairs, Artists Council). The bill suggests changes in the law on the affairs of immigrants, No. 116/2012, including to hide a wider role because of the concerted welcome of refugees by hiding the Agency to provide professional guidance and counselling in connection with the reception of refugees in various ways. The bill is designed to equal the services of refugees, whether they come to a country by their own means, by government or by family unity. The bill was presented to the Council of 150 and 151. It is that the main policy is unchanged from previous Parliaments with the exception of changes in terms of the committee opinion and the adjustment of a greater part of the General Assembly at the 151th legislation, as well as other minor changes. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. It is mentioned in the front section of the committee. Following the Commission's discussion of the matter, the more part wants to make several decisions specifically. Advisorys were generally positive to the bill, supporting its goals and progress. During the previous councils, Persian protection made comments to the proposed basics, including based on the blurred role of the Multi-Creation Centre and the lack of assessment of the effects on personal protection as part of the general impact assessment in connection with the approved bill. According to the Federal Protection Agency's review of the current bill, the Agency considers that the Agency has met up with the Agency's comments sufficiently and does not comment on the bill. The Committee received comments from the National Institutes of Development that disabled people who come to the country as refugees are particularly vulnerable to the collection and processing of personal information. The organization calls attention to the importance of ensuring informed consent prior to the development or sharing of such information about disabled refugees. Then they point out that this group is often particularly vulnerable because of their limited language and position as refugees in new circumstances, as well as because of disability and/or any impairment that must be taken into account. The majority agree with the comments of Developmental Help and emphasizes the importance of consultation with people who have expertise in the affairs of disabled people, their circumstances, their needs, and their rights. At that time, the importance of a process taken into account and guaranteeing the rights of disabled immigrants who often need support other than refugees in general. The majority of welfare committees suggest changes in the definition of individuals with protection. The review of the National Institute of Iceland shows that it may be more clear to better specify the text of the bill to which groups to take. The social and workforce's memo points out that the implementation of the case was emphasized by the order of the convention audience and therefore accepts the Ministry under the information provided by the National Institute of Iceland. The majority agree with the information provided by the Foreign Institute and therefore suggests that the b-joints a-joints will be clearly identified by Article 2. The bill refers to individuals who have received international protection because of family ties with a fugitive or a stateless person. 45. g. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016. Also suggests that the extra part will be explained in the E- teams a-joints 2.g. The bill that refers to a stateless person at the time. Thirty-nine. the law of foreigners. According to the above, a greater proportion of welfare committees are responsible for the approval of the bill by the changes made. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Hafsteinsdóttir Mersteinsdottir, Hafny Hafsteinsdóttir Mersteinsdotir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Óli Kárason Káðsson. Madam President. Here I am measuring for the Commission's involvement in important matters in order to ensure continuous and equal service to individuals with protection regardless of whether people come here on their own or are offered by the State of the United States. The purpose is always to improve the ministry and to ensure it in the best possible way. Thus, a multicultural site is provided to provide professional guidance and counselling with the goal that individuals who come here can get as soon as possible to get into the community, to study, or to work market, and to have access to services such as health care and transportation. As a result, unions and protective individuals all depend on the commitment of a multiculture by law of instruments needed to ensure that the process is professional and efficient. In order for the process to be as good as possible, the Agency is provided with sources and guaranteed by law for the processing of personal information. The principles of the law on personal protection presented in Article 8. This is a personal protection law, but I would like to reiterate the importance of those who are disabled in a more sensitive position and are well - known to go further into the collection and processing of personal information about disabled people than are cheated on indiscriminately. Finally, I want to say that I am especially grateful to be in the history of this case. A welcome to refugees from Ukraine has the highest. A social and workforce minister has established a standard welcome station for all candidates for protection where police, Foreign Institutes, health care, multi-ethnic and employment agencies are all in one place. That's how work is to be done, and that's why more things go wrong. This is the opinion of the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u82	President. Thank you. A senator reviews the matter and the opinion of the committee. I'm mainly here to ask an authority for a closer review of the impact analysis that will be discussed in the assessment of the impact of the bill. There's two things I'm staying at. The cost is on the one hand. I feel that 40.8 million for three standards and a variety of monotonous expenses are some tight pants for such an assignment. I wondered if an authority would like to give some opinion about it, so I'll use now a good case. However, on the basis of the processing of personal information, I have to say it rings a number of warning bells. I'd like to hear more on the committee about it, if she sees any further illuminating that there's some reference to the People's Location itself, if I get it right. I would like to get a little more on how far - reaching it is to be a source of authority. I'm often overwhelmed by the fact that you can't even order theater tickets unless you give a social security number. I think we have to learn to restrain ourselves in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I can get this together, I'm gonna get started at the cost. It's just food that's been taken care of, and the result was this. It could be discovered as to whether it was over-calculation or undercalculation. The Agency exists, of course. There is knowledge, man - made, and it is supposed to be expanded. And then we'll just have to find out. Hv. A senator asked for a collection of personal information. Of course, we always have to be careful, and to do so, we introduced new protection laws a few years ago that have changed our community. Not that, before they were introduced, we were required to be very careful and look out for the personal information, but what happened with the legislation was that a guilty law came in. I just reiterate that in this case there is a warrant for the collection and processing of personal information necessary. In effect, the Agency is assigned to bring together individuals with protection and welcome groups. In order for this mating to be the most suitable option and for the individual and country society, it is the best way to get together so that there are some information about position, age, health, and other factors. However, it is important that all of us be referred to the same principles as those of personal protection. So I don't think we're going on some dangerous path. I think you're right. I just reiterate about special sensitive groups, such as disabled, queer people or others, that they are not going beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u84	President. Thank you. A senator and an executive for the answer, this review of personal protection. She said that there can be a history of health information there. That's where you're, like, totally infested with people. I don't have to list it for Congress. I just want to follow this question about the cost. Is this cost estimate of the possibility of a number of refugees, or are there those who would agree with this - is based on numbers that were in recent years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u85	Mr. President. Thanks again for the question. Senator. At the expense of this work, it is obvious that there is a tremendous increase in this group, and we need to react. Of course, I think we're taking into account some forecasts and figures, talking with the Foreign Institute and others about where we're headed compared with the past few years. But I just reiterate that, of course, it has to be found whether it was over- or underestimated. It's always taken care of by plan. At first, we can do no better, but we may have to step in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the history of this important bill. I don't think it's important for all of us who have any interference with refugees, whether they've been here or abroad, that it's important to keep close personal attention on these matters. It has also been a pleasure to see how society has really come together in the past few weeks, and it has helped to cope with the large oppressors that came into a number of refugees because of the war in Ukraine. This is certainly true, too, that although there is a war in Ukraine and from there alone nearly 1,000 people have come out of it now, they continue to move in another area. Now, in particular, the State has declared that those who come from Ukraine get asylum for some years. But there are still people who have to go through the formal process of applying for asylum. It was very good to know that on the bill it speaks of the need for the trustees to have access to necessary health services, employment opportunities, and if you recall correctly referring to them. A senator has access to buses and such. That's when I wanted to ask. The senator how we see in this room all the good things I think are connected to a bill that is later here today, where it is said with the permission of a president: An alien who has received the ultimate proof of his application for international protection continues to enjoy rights and to a maximum of 30 days. [[The president calls.]] If we show anyone a asylum and he doesn't leave the country in 30 days, we're taking all this away. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, I'm here on a certain subject, but why. A senator asks about a subject on the program later today. To deal with this, it may be related in that they are not only dealing with foreigners but also with their status, and we will likely have a word about the situation he is referring to later in the council, as he is referring to this disfellowshipping. Of course, that bill is here for treatment, it is not a final product, and it will pass through the council. I hope we have a good conversation. It has been provided a bill before and more frequently, and it has changed dramatically. Because of what? A senator asks about my position is clear to me. The bill has changed for the better, very much. I still see a certain problem, but I hope that we can make peace with each other and always out of humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u88	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir for the answer. Hv. A senator concluded the answer of humanity, and that's exactly what I hope for the entire assembly, when they watch the bill that's on this afternoon, whenever it becomes, because it's important that we're not throwing people on the street, especially after we've received it as well as they're being suggested here. Now we can expect here to come - it's already double - three, four, five times, even ten times the number we've been accustomed to. It's gonna cost money. I've missed a little bit that I haven't already asked for extra money from the General to do so. At the same time, there has also been a case, in response to the minister to the question. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir, asking about the cost of moving candidates for international protection from the country, that's where we are spending well over 300 million in moving people out of the country. I wanted to hear it. A senator how she felt that we could fund this increased number, as well as whether we could be using some of the money we're using today to move people out of the country that might become good citizens here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u89	Mr. President. We're still here to discuss a certain matter, but the question is why. A senator may turn in a different direction. I can answer that the funds needed in this matter - this is well-finished within the bounds of the 29 language field, so that it is taken into consideration. As regards funding in the changing world in which we face a vast increase in population loss for various reasons, Ukraine is the war that strikes everyone and adds immensely, alone in the world, in the form of war, natural disasters, climate change, and so on. So we look forward to an enormous increase in the number of refugees, so we must respond. I believe the Icelandic government was doing its best. I have strong faith in our highest. Social and workforce minister, as if he has shown in the short time he has sat, is doing well in this category. It's expensive to send people out of the country. This is a discussion we will have here on a different matter. I wish you would, just like what you're doing. A senator, that we could help and receive everyone. But we cannot, and we need to find a common way of doing some kind of regular work that defines how we can do the best for most. But we must also face the fact that some individuals, and a great many, will not be able to settle here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u90	Mr. President. Surprisingly, this case is a coverup to the government's priority list for several reasons. Obviously because of the situation that exists where we Icelanders are going to need, and of course, they want to receive a large number of refugees from Ukraine because of the war there. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice declared that soon after the war began, we were badly equipped to take on a large number because the system did not work, it would have been blocked, there would have been too many applications that would not be necessary and too long to process. It is surprising, then, that the government will produce a bill that will inevitably have the effect of putting Iceland on the map even more so than is now the criminal gangs that specialize in smuggling people from abroad. As representatives of the European Union have said, a significant proportion of those who have visited Europe in recent years have been exposed to such gangs by trusters. A number of countries, in Europe, are now striving to respond by reducing the impulse to use such routes. This is going in the opposite direction, on the contrary to what is being done in other parts of the North, creating incentives to come here on the roads of such groups rather than go through the safe formal system. The other thing, Mr. President, is that this matter should be made up in the second. before the government has relied on him to make a second case of those who take refuge in 1st. Here. It is impossible to think of a clue as to the situation between the political parties these days. The case I refer to here, which has been mentioned earlier in this discussion, was brought by the Justice Minister of the Independence Party, Sigríður Andersen, a few years ago - has changed since then, was moved by another minister and then by the third, but the government has not stressed it or missed it. This issue is designed to improve effectiveness in dealing with the vast issues received by the inmates. That case is set aside and replaced with the second. for a case that has the opposite effect, promoting not a safe, legal way, but taking risks, even life - threatening risks, and even paying all the resources to criminals for smuggling in Europe and then coming from one European country to Iceland. This must indicate, Mr. President, that the Independence Party in these days lacked confidence. In fact, they gave up the highest. The prime minister of the Independence Party is expelled from the government, the one who first proposed the bill I referred to, but did not even trust to start the 1st. ... beforethecasewe're talking about now is over. On the contrary, the issue we now discuss is not a failure to enable us to help refugees. This case, as I mentioned above, goes contrary to what other countries are trying to do to make assistance with refugees more efficient. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who said it was about doing the position of all equals, whether they came here on their own, paying someone to get to Europe, and then possibly to Iceland, or being invited to Iceland as a greeting; that they get the same service, that they have the right to do the same service - and that it's a very large amount of service. We wanted to welcome the refugees we invite to our country, but it doesn't matter how people come in, that they have the right to do the same service. At the same time, the prime minister of Danmerk, a leader of such countries, has declared that it is the objective of Denmark's government that no one comes to Denmark to seek refuge, men do it elsewhere, go legal ways. Why do the prime minister of Danmerk, the chairman of an equal, say this? Is the chairman of Denmark's compare with refugees, fugitives? No, the chairman of such scientists in Denmark views the facts and how these cases have actually developed and see that Denmark, as the prime minister says, cannot be published as a destination in criminal sales brochures. It must not encourage us to send people on their way, even on a life - threatening journey, on the behalf of Denmark; that we must want to direct people on the way to the United Nations and other avenues available to invite people to the country and choose those who have the right to live in a home rather than to work through it in the country. The prime minister of Denmark has been explicit on this, powered by attacks, outbacks, but still have the support of their own party and most other classes in Denmark. In that country, people realize that the present situation is no longer working, and it does not help those who need help most. The number of shelters in Iceland before the Ukraine war began to be six times higher than in Denmark and Norway. This did not happen automatically. This happened because of the message that the Norwegian government sent away, Danish, Norwegian, and Finnish, especially, and because of the message received from Iceland, since information is quickly spread in this world, this technological world of community media. In 2015, I think I did, I met a Finnish minister who told me that Finnar had not known where he was from when a sudden encounter between 50,000 and 60,000 Iraq arrived. They examined what had happened. In fact, a change in a rule that the Finnish members considered to be a minor change in order on how to respond to refuge attendance in that country had led to the decision to transport a current that had previously been in Belgium and to advertise it. This service, in case of a service to be called, is advertised on Facebook and on other community networks and on street corners around the world. And people watch. They watch out for what is the most profitable way to send people and sell them because of expectations, to sell people's expectations that a certain place offers the great service of the individual being justified in paying up to everything, even the entire family's belongings, even going further and in debt, in order to buy access to what the government in a designated country offers. By helping such groups sell Iceland as their destination, they are not doing anyone's favor, except perhaps these agents. This knows the Danish government. Not only do they know this, they're expounding this in the course of the Soci order of the Soci order and the policy of the government. Denmark cannot become a market for men who are willing to take everything they have and risk their lives. Clearly, then, we here in Iceland need to look at evolution elsewhere in the North countries and also toward the development of the world. This is a huge deal. The world's refugees will likely be the largest subject for the next few years, even decades. However, because of the magnitude of this issue, we need to respond with logic, fact, and reason so that we can do the most good. But that has not always been the response. This has not often been the case when this group of subjects is discussed. In 2015, when the refugee stream soared, especially for the war in Syria but also for other reasons, I suggested in the government, and was agreed that we would make big support to refugees. But I stressed that the overall picture would be taken, that we would welcome people at home and do it well, but we wouldn't forget to help the countries in our neighborhood. Lebanon is a land that went through 20 years of civil war, is, in fact, bankrupt in a land that has suffered disaster but has taken the lead in providing and hosting millions of refugees. In the Western world, there was limited interest in helping Lebanon by providing the Libians with the strength they needed in order to perform this service, despite the fact that ten times as many people could have been helped by the same amount in Lebanon as they were in Western lands. Why did this happen? That is because people did not look at the bigger picture, and all too many put it about themselves, the demonstration of helping rather than the real results of their assistance. It would not be as visible if it were a distance, to form in Lebanon. Even now, the scope of the problem is what it is, we cannot approach it on the basis of virtual politics. We need to look for solutions based on reason, moisture, and facts. This bill is totally missing. There was a why. Skúladóttir It's a lot of money, but it's gonna be worth 30 million now, if I remember correctly, and count it a bit. A senator that had all been taken into account, although perhaps the large number of refugees might change something there. The cost shown on the bill is all about pay paid for three employees. There is no real effect on the bill and the cost it will bring. When this has become a rule, that no matter how you come to Iceland, whether you wait in a refugee camp in Lebanon or anywhere else at the United Nations - you have the right to get to Iceland, you are applying for something, especially for help or for the city of criminals to smuggle you in a life-threatening mission to Europe, no matter how you come, you have the same service - it will be more than anything else that would put Iceland on the map and lead to an enormous increase in applying, including the number of applications. unregistered applications. To whom does it come primarily? Icelandic taxpayers are affected, but that is not a major concern. This affects the most people who need help. Such an arrangement means that we cannot help them as we would like to. That is why it is so serious that it is recommended here that it makes it harder for us to help people who are in most dire situations and to create a most questionable impulse for very questionable parties. Added to this the fact that humans have not made every effort to calculate the cost, so it is part of virtual politics, not a part of politics involved in reasoning and content. The fact that this happens at the same time as governments in other parts of the North are going the opposite direction will continue to increase this effect. Iceland will then be a better destination than any other North country. Iceland will be further advertised on these Facebook pages or other media used to sell dreams and expectations that are beyond human reach. Iceland must be no more than Denmark allows it to be used for such purposes. Our goal must be to do the most good for as many as possible who need help. The problem is, to some extent, that the United Nations Convention on Refugees, since 1951, if I recall correctly, failed to care for how the world has changed, transportation, and so forth. He was designed to deal with conditions that are much like what we now see in Ukraine, where a large group of people have to flee because of war in neighboring countries and they need to be able to accept this vast crowd, at least temporarily. This arrangement was not designed to deal with today's activities, unfortunately, as I explained earlier, it has become much too dominant in this area where most of the trusters are looking primarily for changed living values. But the same ones are then taking space from those who have primarily the right. We see that refugees from Ukraine are primarily women and children and older people, but in Britain, where refugees who have even been sheltered flee from France because they believe that it is better to do so, the vast majority of young men are far greater. During the last week, British government response was made by a contract with Rwandan African nations to send in these hospices to the country until their applications were processed. Some might think it's cruel, but this is an idea that came from the Danish economists who began a conversation with Rwanda about such welcome stations and, in fact, other countries think. The purpose is not to send as many people to Rwanda and have them wait there. The purpose is to prevent the presence of the urge to travel by criminals, to direct people on the legal safe way, and so do we.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for speaking up to this important part of the program. I may need a lot more than two minutes plus one to answer anything I believe should be answered in a speech at any time. Senator. I will continue to say yes in my talk afterward, encouraging him to be here in the hall and to have a further conversation with me later tonight. What I want to ask you is why. The senator at this point is concerned as much as ever. A senator mentioned in connection with the fact that instead of looking for a criminal organization and spending on it, people should choose the legal and formalities - so I just use a direct quote from the head. Senator: passing through the secure formal system. Today, according to European, international law, European legislation and national legislation, a fugitive who comes to the land has the right to protection. That means if you come to Europe and you're a fugitive, you're entitled to protect yourself. But you can't come here. There is no legal way for refugees to come to Europe and apply for asylum - none. The safe formal system that lays down. Thus, there can be only one member of the United Nations, and there is another system that is a United Nations refugee camp where certain people are plucked out and sent out as a package for something in the world. It does not control where it goes. If they say no, they will have to wait for even years for their next chance. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of what a well - established system he is referring to, whom he considers to be the best way to provide protection to refugees in Europe, who have the greatest need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u92	Mr. President. That's the right thing to say. A senator that I am not at all referring to the United Nations organization. Actually, I don't think it's appropriate to talk about refugees being sent out like a bummer. In many countries, refugees of the United Nations and their cases are being received and received in different lands, such as Iceland. We have received a considerable number of refugees through the United Nations Refugee Fund, and we want to do so well. Hv. A senator introduces just a very interesting point, a moral point that I had planned to discuss in a talk later on. It is the fact that refugees often pay in many times to make 10,000 euros for going on a life - threatening journey through Africa, on a boat in the Mediterranean, etc. Then they ask: Why? If the person can pay 10,000 bucks, why doesn't he just pay for a plane ticket? This is because European countries do not welcome refugees who come directly by flight. And why is that? The European countries, Germany and Sweden including, know that they would not be able to handle it if they opened their visas or if there was no need for visas for anyone who wanted to make a flight to these countries. That is why these people are put in danger, put on a hungry funeral, and perhaps with flowers at the main station in Munich when they arrive there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now, for a long time, Europe has been holding back the vast majority of people who are looking here, even for very dangerous ways, returning them, sending them on like blunders and snarling across Europe before being sent out of Europe. Europe has even agreed to a state where human rights violations and extreme violence and just really disgusting things are going on to get people back there. In spite of this, the number of people who are city citizens for the life - threatening way, for their lives and members, and for what they are at risk, is increasing to get here. Counts 'em out. A senator said that sending people away, who have worked hard, and even suffered terrible losses and loss from having gone that way, obviously only in need, is a humanable way to close the European border? [[The president calls.]] How in the world does he think? A senator that prevents people from choosing these paths when there are no other options? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u94	Mr. President. I'll be clear about that to begin with that I think there must be other ways to be available, safer ways. I don't think it's right next door. A senator was referred to as the majority of those applying for asylum in Europe. This has been tried at times, but often it seems difficult. Again, I refer to the example of Britain and the refugees who have even had a home in France but who prefer to be lucky in Britain. It has been extremely difficult, almost impossible, for the British government to send them back to France, let alone anything else. That's why the British now take this welcome station. By simply opening up and receiving equal services, no matter how they come, they are developing a very dangerous impulse, and they are advertising criminal activity more than we should, and indeed more than the Danish government thinks they are supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u95	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill to change the law on the affairs of immigrants, whose main concern is the interaction between the Multi-Creation Centre and the local community, about the welcome of the individuals who have already been protected in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir This third year, Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, gave a talk in a series of order that focused primarily on the affairs of foreigners that these laws are not really about, the people who are looking here. But I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the bill we're discussing here, pointing to him the significance of this bill for community relations and multicultural centres and, in fact, advice from a country community to a reception of 850 Ukrainians who have already arrived and could and, unfortunately, will most likely increase over the next few days. What is the significance of this bill, as discussed here on the subject of communication?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u96	Mr. President. I'm surprised that at a convention of candidates, there is still talk points in the day's discussion of this matter that proved completely meaningless, and after the reviewer of the case, he did. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, took care of the facts. For some reason, though, you do not want to know what this really is all about. Here was the talk of the highest. Social Ministry and argued that those who disagreed did not want immigrants to learn Icelandic. It just wasn't about it in this case, it didn't have any effect on it. This issue is about setting the basis for the same service, including payment, regardless of how it comes to the country. Then there are three jobs to enforce this. Hv. One member of the United States wondered if they could be useful in welcoming the large number of refugees from Ukraine. No doubt these three workers can do something good in this, but we need much more than three to help the intense current that has come from Ukraine and will continue. It is not enough to put an old issue in new clothes from the meeting sessions and use the forced force in Ukraine to justify the matter. This situation and the vast number of Europeans, including Iceland, call for special responses on the part of the government, special responses, and substantial financial contributions, but not to try to justify an old case that never worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer but insists that this bill is one aid in improving communication between state and country members to the reception of those who are being protected after the protection has been given, whether people come here as so - called communication workers or come on their own roads as people from Ukraine are now doing. Of course, for the role of Polyversity to pair immigrants and rural communities, it is relevant that in a rural society that greets immigrants, there is the service that will be suitable for the immigrants, employment that is appropriate, etc. Once again, I'd like to ask what. Senator how the bill measures the services of the Multi-Sambourn site in rural areas that receive immigrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u98	Mr. President. I certainly have no objection to adding the services of the Multihuman Park to rural society. This has become a very bad habit, especially in this government during this last term, to throw into the bills of all kinds of things. So when people criticize the main point, the main purpose, the main effect, is: But wait, do you object to what's also on the bill? This is completely off-limits, Mr. President. This matter is to lay the groundwork for a fundamental policy change in Iceland to stand out among the northern countries at least Going back to showing whether you are opposed to a multicultural site has a better position to help rural society - of course, I'm not opposed, but it can be done in any way other than to attack the fundamental policy change that criminal gangs will use in advertising to make Iceland a destination in the same way that the Danish government is particularly trying to prevent right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u99	Mr. President. I come up here and I listened to a talk. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. I'd like to say first, because I'd like to ask him a question, that lately there's been a very strong appeal in the community to strengthen and strengthen and support more fully the services of immigrants in this community, the ones that come here, regardless of the reason. That, in fact, lies ahead of us. changes in the trades and projects within the Iceland Management Board by moving this field to the Department of Social Affairs. Of course, the bill we discuss is part of strengthening and strengthening this service. The reasons why people come here were a good use of the speaker. It may be a war, a climate change that we see every day, every news lesson, a sign of significant global impact, of natural disasters, or other causes. It gives me the impression that there is such a rich will in the community at home, here in Iceland, to show these different circumstances of people, who do not share our ideals here at home, understanding, warmth and compassion. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator may have wondered if a comment such as the one he has received here may lead to fear and division in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u100	Mr. President. It was nice to get an answer because it showed up the imaginary politics I was talking about here. Here we go. A senator, speaking about humanity and the danger of not using the right phrases but discussing the real contents of the matter that is being handled here, might be harboring a grudge. It's impossible, Mr. President, to approach a situation like this. We need to be able to talk about real content. I am absolutely convinced that it is the right thing to do. A senator said that the majority of Icelanders would like to contribute a great deal to helping people who are suffering for various reasons. But just as we have to make decisions about how money is spent, we also need to make good in this category, if we are serious about doing the most good and helping that most people who really need help, discussing the contents, allowing us to talk about how we're doing the best we can, and also allow ourselves to criticize, allow us to point out the possibility of being doing things that in general make it harder for us to help as many Icelanders as possible to do. You can't approach this huge group of paintings, even this largest group of modern times, by saying, "Don't you all agree with humanity? Will you criticize a matter of humanity? It's not humanitarian unless you really look for ways to get the most human spirit, helping as many as possible who need help most.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I am not entirely sure, though, that I have received the answer to my question. All right, well, I thought I recognized our common understanding that here is society changing pretty fast, including In view of the world situation; war, climate change, natural disasters, so I count it back. It is a new reality and a new reality for quite a number of people as we, and I said it here before, quarreling not with, understand perhaps not well enough. Hv. A senator points out that with this legislation there is a fundamental policy change and that we stand out as different from the North countries. Maybe. It is time for me to ask why. In view of the fast changes of our times, in view of the urgency of our times, did we simply try to stand out and react more quickly?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u102	Mr. President. That's at least It is not good for us to stand out as the one North countries that does not look at the facts but continues to approach this on the basis of some measure. The fact is that the number of refugees in the world is enormous, and unfortunately, they will only increase for many reasons, despite the fact that in general the world, with this vast exception in Ukraine and Syria, or that in recent years, as well as in most decades and even centuries before. But changes, e.g. Easier transport and such, has meant that there are far more people who can go through a longer road to success and who cannot help but understand the people they do. But that also means "woe. " A senator asked about Iceland's special status, that we will simply have to choose how we will do the most good. We can't say that we're welcoming anyone who wants to get into a better standard, wants to come here. No, it's about setting priorities to do the most good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u103	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to correct the change in import law, changes to the reception of individuals with international protection. That may be what leads to my main interest, and I'm going to focus primarily on here. In 2009, when I became a volunteer for the Red Cross in Iceland, I began to give legal advice on international protection in Iceland, sometimes also known as the trustees whom I myself have always been called, although very nice words have indeed been spent in a very small way in my discussion. Since 2009, it has been said that people who come here on their own, as it were, who apply for protection and receive protection have not had access to the same service as the situation and support of those who come here at the invitation of the Icelandic government through the United Nations Refugee Organization, which in everyday terms is called the boring name of hostpowerers. Since 2009 the issue has been under way that these individuals need to be balanced. Then and until recently, the situation was that individuals who came here themselves, applied for and received protection received a deposit and were invited to have a good life. If they were lucky, they may have discovered the secret list and wandered into a restaurant and found a job, but the support was not on many fish itself. Of course, this has been developing all this time and has the Red Cross, such as. provide a great deal of help and support for many years from volunteers to help people get on their way to Iceland and find their way. Of course, it is a tremendous challenge that involves entering a new community, much less when you come into a community where you don't know anyone, don't speak the language, don't really know anything, actually just land here. It was in 2009 that I understand the best information we had at the Red Cross, which for the first time came to Iceland by a smuggler, directly to Iceland. Until then, people were on their way to the United States or to Canada and were stranded here because they were stopped at Schengen's outer border at the Chefavour Airport on their way out of the country. They stopped there and had no choice but to apply for protection. In 2009, the first issue was where we thought we had clear information that people were coming to this country. That in itself is very interesting. Yet, they had no idea at the beginning of the journey. They had to flee the Iran in a hurry, requiring assistance from criminals. Why did they need the help of criminals? They needed the help of criminals because, as I mentioned in my answer to a talk. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson earlier, no legal way for refugees to come to Iceland for protection. There's no legal way. These individuals were protected here. They told their story, they were so lucky they didn't get into the Dublins' net, and they got an audience, and they finally got protection. Then they got a visa, just, please, here's the bus shop. Years later, I was very happy when I met them by chance, since they were here to interpret to my new clients, speaking fluent English, the words of Icelandic citizens. It warms your heart. It's a little watch out. What I'm calling attention to here is that it's been 13 years since then, and it's now starting to be shaped by some kind of system that similarly supports refugees, no matter how they find their way to the country. Of course, it is something that has been called after all this time. The bill we're discussing here is certainly an important part of it, and I support the bill, and that's a big improvement. This may be primarily a matter of legalizing the role of a multicultural facility in this service. In that sense, this is very positive. In fact, I don't think much of the bill to check. The only thing that worries me, calls alarm bells, is the rules of the bill on handing out personal information and government access that the personal information available to other governments and other members of Iceland. Despite the fact that Persian protection has been blessed by this, it is clear that the government's sources, there's a multicultural status, to obtain much more information, and I can't better see than that there is simply a duty to inform people that there is a tendency to obtain enormously sensitive personal information on this rather than to get consent. I'd always feel better that people would have to accept that. I'm not sure that people always realize what's being said to them, especially when there's a lot of information. It can be difficult to grasp much information in situations that are often given protection when they are finally given protection. You see, it comes as a surprise to many people that being a fugitive for many years, living under a tremendously dangerous situation, in what may be called in English, excuse me, President, ◯Surf treatment of Moses, is to get an answer, some sort of conclusion that probably means the end of your suffering to a large extent, that's a shock. It is a shock in the whole sense of that word. That's an enormous amount of variation. It causes a person to respond emotionally, often making it difficult for him to think clearly. Even so, people are being made aware of this and may often expect representatives of the National Institute of Iceland to announce the decision to a great deal of joy and other things, but the lack of response is very common. It is very common for people to be simply frozen. That says okay, I get it. Here's the information, and then the information flow comes about the next step. I'll give you a bunch of papers and papers. I need you to fill this out. The lawyer will help you with this. People don't know what's going on. That takes part, it doesn't take another part, and it's just perfectly normal. To inform people in this position that the Multicultural Network can obtain all the most sensitive personal information about you from whoever they can think of in Iceland -- that may not be quite so extensive but as good as - I'm not sure that they will fully understand and hope that in action people will be sure to realize what is taking place there. It is not to say that people have any advantage in protesting this intelligence, and how much of the government's intelligence is very important and essential and of good things! This, however, is what may ring a warning bell reading this bill. I would have liked to see that approval was required. But with the blessing of Pernon, I do not necessarily see reason to make a suggestion for a change in this regard. What is missing too, what in my opinion has not yet been able to take seriously enough to set clear policy and clear laws and processes, is about social adaptation. This is certainly an important step, and I believe that a multicultural site will do good things by caring for this role, but it still lacks a tremendous amount of vital factors in helping people to become part of Icelandic society. It may be the least - I've had a word about it at the highest. Social and workforce ministers before in this room - in connection with access to people of Icelandic, Icelandic, and Icelandic education. This bioavailability has been restricted. There have been some comments about the offer, regarding the quality of this teaching and other aspects of it. What is lacking is the need for governments to take decisive action and to finance it. Icelandic education is expensive. In fact, people have to take them entirely on their own terms, which are positive in most respects, but much of it is done during work hours. Indeed, it is always during work hours because some work during the day and others are working at night. What may really matter is that there is no real motivation, there is no real pressure, and there is no follow-up by learning English. This is an important and big factor. It's not just that we don't have to speak English to the bus driver. It's about people having real access to society. If we approach a conversation that takes place in a language that we do not understand, we certainly cannot participate in it. It is self - evident, though, that the obviousness of that statement may not be reflected in government procedures. The other thing that has never been properly available in Iceland - I know that there are some projects that are very new from the needle at the Labour Office and other sources about teaching and helping people, teach them about Icelandic society. Then I'm not just talking about what the national anthem is, what the flag looks like and what language is spoken, but how we deal with it in Icelandic society when we find an apartment. I need to find an apartment. How do we do this? Now I've rented out an apartment and all kinds of housing several times over my life. I may get e-mails from one person who is a long description of her circumstances, her financial circumstances, almost like a job application, and that is truly fascinating. Then comes the mail, which says 'I will take this groupment', to be granted president's permission: I'm going to get this apartment. Indeed, it is something that may not appeal to many landlords, simply because it is not the kind of thing that buys on the island. It sounds like details, but it's not even details. That is a fundamental way in which we can acquire the basic necessities of life that we need. Indeed, people learn it in a difficult way, so to speak, eventually. All of this eventually works out, but failure to support it can result in excessive suffering. Of course, it can also cause people not to learn it. It involves shutting out, leading to perimeters, and it has certain consequences that are of no benefit to anyone. Finding an apartment is one thing, finding a job -- how do we find ourselves a job in Iceland? Do we try to talk with someone we know? Is there someplace we can go and ask for a job? Do we come around? What is needed to apply? These things are extremely important, how we talk to each other. The other element is underestimated, i.e. How does finding a mate, finding love work out? How do we find love in Iceland? Do we walk up to that handsome person who stands on Hlemmi and ask her if she wants to marry us? In some communities, this is the case. It's not like that in our society, but how on earth do people know that? These are things that are extremely important to all potential people to succeed in becoming part of society. This is something that has been neglected. I think it was neglected in many ways because of a lack of appreciation for its importance, but also because governments may not consider this to be their job or trust in this role. This is what I think is the most important thing to keep in mind about the changes and what we're talking about, the service we're talking about here. Social support is not just about helping you find an apartment and apply for rent, it's about finding a door into the community. Perhaps they are projects that have been the most successful in this regard as guides, friends, and family projects that have been on the Red Cross for a few years where friendships are created. We know you can't get into any community without real friendships. We know this for ourselves, Icelanders, who have lived in our communities, very much like ours. However, it can be difficult to get in there unless you develop or become completely involved in society. For this reason, I would like to draw special attention to the fact that it was a good review of this bill from ASI. I'm going to get a copy of it, since it's only very well spoken by the United Nations, with the permission of a president: Despite the rapid progress of the bill, it must go further to enable refugees to adapt to Icelandic society and become full workers in the workforce. Total government policy must be met in the affairs of immigrants and refugees for the future. Such a course has never been properly developed, and it's interesting. There you will need to look at all the areas of the community of immigrants and refugees and to serve them in their daily lives, including those of the United States. The health system and the education system. Special attention should be paid to the inclusion of refugees in the labour market and to ensure that they are access to appropriate employment. It is desirable to look to the other northern countries who have a much wider and global welcome system for refugees than Iceland. What is also made of a comment in this very good statement by the European Union of Iceland regarding statistics and research in the welfare of refugees in Iceland. There's not much research. It is difficult to get statistical information on this, e.g. Where do people get their income? In fact, these statistics and other vital factors are the ability to determine the problem and find a permanent solution. Since then, there is always a problem that has been underestimated and very neglected, and I actually don't quite understand why that problem is as persistent as it really is, and it has to do with the language, translation, and interpretation. In many laws there is a requirement for access to interpreters, interpretations, translation, and other factors, but this is neglected in very many areas. In modern society, we have access to good interpretation services by telephone. I personally had a law firm for a very short time before I sat at a council and at the Red Cross, we had a contract with interpretation services in Britain. In fact, I think the company is primarily in the United States, but the branch we had a business with was in Britain. It worked, so I called a phone number and could obtain an interpreter in 70 languages in less than 30 seconds. This is something that any government has adopted. It's possible. It's no big deal. In fact, it requires that the person on this side of the line speak and understand English that I don't think is a big problem in our community. I'm running out of time, amazing but true, since I'm only at the first point of three pages of the points I have here. I'm going to stop for a while. That's what I think is extremely important to look into. I'm the highest. Social and employment minister to keep this in mind, do not underestimate these factors. I welcome this bill and this trend and may it continue in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. In the early part of her talk, a senator made it clear that she had doubts about the personal protection and information flows based on the sources given there. Hv. A member in particular stated that he considered the matter to be a great improvement in his view that he did not want to make comments on this particular point or to make adjustments. Watch your step. A senator considered just how he would view this better? Of course, in terms of personal protection, we have a very clear position on Pirata. In this regard, why is it justified, as it were, to yield to this group? I also ask if the only way to look at this is in the way that we normally do it is to change the course of Pirata, or whether it was the only thing that we're going to discuss today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. No, I don't think I've been declaring any change in Pirata, but with these comments I may be a little trying to follow it along. What's really important in the management of personal information is technical aspects of the problem. When I was reviewing the report and other data related to this case, I seemed to be quite conscious of those factors. What I'm most concerned about is not necessarily the law of law. It's that governments really realize what it means to provide personal information about individuals. In my job at the Red Cross, I found that often I could get personal information that I had a law against, simply by introducing myself as a representative of the Red Cross. It is a tendency in our community to trust, in many respects very good, and to assume that people are not asking for something they are not entitled to. Fortunately, this is changing only with a general attitude. I agree very strongly with what. A senator's concern is that we do not think of this group differently than that of other members of the community, but there is a strong tendency to do so. There is a strong tendency to think that all other rules apply to non - Icelandic people or to non - English people. A man sees a lot of factors, and fighting it is his life's work, i.e. to take seriously the rights of people, including the right to personal protection. The reason I didn't think it was right to make formal adjustments in this is because Personal Protection doesn't make a comment to the presentation as it eventually became in the bill. Personal protection is based on a very strict personal protection legislation, and I may rest assured that there will be effective monitoring of the law and that there can be some means to resolve if not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'll see here the state review of the Federal Protection Agency from the last council, the assessment of the effects of personal protection. The review of this review, when the case was last submitted, states that evaluation of the impact of the bill on personal protection was not to be made as part of the general impact assessment in connection with its approval and refer to the EU Regulation. Go on, with President's permission: ▪Peronuvre believes that such an assessment is necessary on the part of the Lawgiver, including the comments the Agency has made on the bill. The priorities of the evaluation and the results of the assessment were likely to be presented in law data. Now I have to admit that I have not studied this case so far, but I know why. A senator is well - versed in these matters. Does this project seem to have taken place, this evaluation, since the matter was proposed a year ago? Of course, I should have asked an executive part of the committee, but I missed that opportunity, so I raised this question right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. It seems that this food has not yet been performed. Again, a Persian protection stresss the fact that such food is done. It's certainly supposed to be in the early stages, doing the bill, as it always is done by the law, so I imagine that this is a common comment on the part of Perone Protection. On the other hand, personal protection does not make comments to the bill as in advance. I trust this will be followed, and we will be very careful about these matters. A senator was aware of the situation here. This is a natural concern of the heart. Still, I'm less worried about these laws as they are than about what they're doing. Even if the law was in harmony with all our strict personal laws, which appear to be Persian protection, however, there is always this danger that governments underestimate the importance of keeping confidential about anything that concerns individuals personally. I think it's possible that it's part of a general conscious awakening that's happening and it needs to happen. I repeat, this is certainly something that is being observed. There are people who will carefully monitor how this service will be carried out, how the rights of people in this position will be maintained, and so on. I'm really worried about this. [[The president calls.]] But these concerns gave no reason to make any suggestions for formal changes in this bill. This may primarily be what I was saying in my speech earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u108	Madam President. In this first talk, my talk to the 2nd. This case, I would like to enter its cost to a considerable extent and a secondary impact. However, I would like to start by making specific comments, such as why. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristinasdóttir Gunnarsdóttir told me just before, that the assessment of the effect of the bill on personal protection has not yet been performed. I want to make comments that the situation is that way now that we're in 2nd. ... aboutthiscase. The case took place some years ago and had been a whole year in the Ministry since it was submitted to the last assembly. The comments I read earlier, from the Persian Protection of the bill, were submitted last year. These are reviews from February 18, 2020. Actually, it's the last assembly, not the last assembly, as I said earlier, so I corrected it. A review of the Federal Protection of February 18, 2020, states: ▪ It cannot be seen that assessment of the effect of the bill on personal protection was part of the general impact profile associated with its approval, dr. However, 10 mg. Thirty-five. Regulation (EU) 2016/679.7 Go on says: ▪Personal protection believes that such food needs to be done on the part of the Lawgiver, including the comments the Agency has made on the bill. The priorities of the evaluation and the results of the evaluation would need to be published in the documentation. That's kind of more reason than I thought earlier to make a comment about the fact that this evaluation has not yet been won, i.e. looking forward to the date of this comment from the 150th legislature, dated February 18, 2020. Thus, the seminary has had over two years in order to carry out the evaluations that were criticized by the Persian guardians that have not occurred at the beginning of 2020. What kind of assemblywork is this, and a way of living by a minister in these matters? I know that Pirata's members are concerned about these matters, and of course I believe that they will be followed after this assessment. I must, however, criticize the minister of the seminary who gives the bill. The introduction of a report says, with permission of the president: It's the Social Services Department's telecommunications programme. - Whatever it is today. It's called the Department of Social Services, but I hope it's learned eventually. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - The bill remains largely unchanged from previous councils. Materially, in the introduction of a piece of paper with the bill, as it is currently known, the bill remains largely unchanged from previous councils. No other comment can be made that this is the case when such clear comments are made from Perone Protection in February 2020, i.e. that the Ministry didn't have enough space for two years to run this evaluation. This is what I would like to say at the beginning of this particular point. That caused me to think about it when it came to it. Pirat's senator did not believe that making adjustments was a matter of personal protection in the bill. So I noticed that this point is in this way and that it would be interesting to get an explanation, though late in the butt, as a result of Persian protection not making a single comment on this particular point today. Perhaps in the second speech, I will discuss how the Persian protection forms its review and comments in the review of this assembly. Now I'd like to review what I was actually going to start here today, but it's about to start the cost assessment and the cost of this bill. In Article 6 of the bill's report, as already indicated, by the permission of a president: With the bill, the operation of the Multicultural Network will be enhanced. The Agency accepts new projects and varied services because of the protection of individuals. It is expected that the new projects of the Multicultural Network will require three additional status values as well as a work-related cost of about 40.8 billion each year. K. as well as the cost of single - trade money to $1 billion. K. The wealth of the Kingdom Fund is fully financed within the framework of the language field 29◯ This may be the right cost assessment, with regard to these 40.8 million, when you look at the status values that are being added and the desks, chairs, and computers that need to be bought, that is not a complex account problem. But what I now criticized, and critical of the case at the previous council and the council, is that no attempt is made to evaluate the secondary effects of the law. What do I mean by that? Yes, I mean, I think the legislation, as it says on this matter, is in a way that is very likely to be a very high possibility that so-called unfounded applications for protection in Iceland are highly useful. We know a case abroad, and we're looking at it at home for the fact that there are six or eight times more applications in Iceland, and I can't remember which is, than applications in Denmark and Norway. Something explains it, I doubt it's the weather. There must be something that makes you think of hundreds of percent more applications than in the countries that are anything like us. The answers I've been given so far are that it's that it's this mystery structure that we've already got here at home. I am concerned that by means of the government's plan to reconcile a reception, no matter what the individual comes to the country and receives protection, Iceland will be at the front of the brochures of those who exploit people in these materials. I see here in the hall that not all of the members here agree with me about that food, but we may already discuss it. However, there is something that makes it as much relative between the number of applications here as in Norway and Denmark, so I continue with that example. There are a lot more people in Iceland than there are for filming -- I may not say so, I just can't remember the number enough to claim about Sweden, but it reminds me that we are proportionately above Sweden in these matters. But I'm afraid to say it unless I recall it specifically. Then we are left with the question, What is the cause? And is it not likely that this will help to reduce our ability to communicate effectively with those we are accepting and trusting to receive? I agree with what you're saying. The majority opinion here, earlier today, was. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir. She said, in effect, and the senator corrects me if I am wrong, that we cannot receive everyone. It's just the situation, and I think there's a realistic assessment. We're supposed to welcome the receivers, support them in order to adapt to the Icelandic community, but I think that if we go into jail too much, it'll be a harm to everyone who comes here. I think it's safe to say that the examples we see recently in our neighboring countries are - I'll let me say that and hope there won't be a bad record here - in many ways, for a warning. I've had some problems with the adaptation program in many places, and I'm not referring to reeducation adjustments in some places, not at all, but to the fact that in many places it has been difficult to make the inmates, the new people, adapt to the community in which they put themselves. This has shaped our attitude in the Middle Order. We're supposed to be nice to the people we're inviting here to us and the people we take, but we're not supposed to go in more than we can handle. Hv. paritaprevir The Gísli Rafn Ólafsson spoke of it in an antiquity - I recall that he is the second person to me in the rosary so that we have a possible phrase - that we could be watching ten times in the number of applications compared to those years with the effect of the war in Ukraine. Of course, it is a serious situation, but it seems to me that most of those who are fleeing from war catastrophe in Ukraine are thinking of returning to their own territory, i.e. that there is a temporary problem. I hope so, but we do not imagine how the wars will develop. We are all hoping that this will be a temporary situation and that the unfortunate people will be fleeing from the conflict that takes place there will be an opportunity to return to their first home. In this context, I allow myself to assert, not being able to make a major difference in the way we can welcome those who escape the conflict in Ukraine. I think we need to, away from this matter, look at it as a special project. I sense it a little, so this case has been put in crown clothes. As has often been done for the past two years, efforts have been made to infiltrate matters on the grounds of being a crown, a pandemic, so that they can receive rapid treatment throughout the council. This struck me in this way when I was suddenly disturbed this week that this particular case - which has been settled for some time, it was recommended a long time ago, and the prepared state of the committee's opinion has been in place for some time, and no one is exasperating it - now all of a sudden fall in the sense of major impact on the well - being of refugees from Ukraine. I don't think it's good to try to put it that way. We're supposed to try to figure out if the garner, like me and others, is getting a lot bigger and more concerned about this approach. Then I'll come back at this cost. It is absolutely crazy that no attempt was made to assess the secondary costs of the bill and the effects it brings on me and others. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs has become the belief that the cost assessment of this case is primarily a factor in shutting down the desks and the desks costing them, we are in serious trouble as to the cost of prime assessment in general. The resulting effects can be more than a hundred times, and then I am talking not only about this but also about issues related to government operations. Such cases may be made to mean that the cost of office service is an entirely secondary factor in the overall picture. If we refuse to evaluate such matters, we are also in that position, and we have to face it, senators, to increase the likelihood of getting involved in this discussion for the future, if we are just going to make it known what this will do for us. If I'm a little critical. Perhaps a historian considered the greater part of the committee to me that the total cost had to be clearly established. It was in the face of what we were doing. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir at the beginning of the discussion. Today, the cost of the seminary is considerable. I think it might be possible to protect the money spent in such a way that more success is achieved. It would be possible to be more effective here at home to assist the people who come here by means of legal and organized means to adapt to the community and also by assisting in the faraway areas, as I know that the next member of the council will be on the rosary, please. The Gísli of Rafn Ólafsson... has quite a bit of knowledge and experience. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator can absolutely confirm that each million people are more effective than in Iceland. In view of this, we should be very open to support in a more decisive way that a certain portion of this process takes place closer to the home of the refugees and where the money is more available than here in one of the most expensive lands in the world. I miss that big picture not even on the bill or on the committee. I think that this evaluation of potential secondary effects is basically of the opinion of a financier or the financial office. Then it's only documented, and they can either explain it or hit their chest after two to three years, saying, "We're gonna make a real mess of it, or we're gonna make it right." But I think that, in any case, it's absolutely minimal that we senators call it an overall estimate. Another is unwise, in regard to the treatment of the government, the treatment of the legal group, and the treatment of the people who come here for protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Not much of it came as a surprise. Hv. A senator mentioned it relatively early in his talk that he was concerned that this increased service, or equal service, would be the subject of unfounded applications in this country, would have been a contributing factor. I'd like to start by putting a question mark to the statistics for what it was. A senator refers to a very few people already, as in the case of Iceland, not many people are needed to reflect on their statistics a little. If there are two, then it only takes two to double and four to triple the number. On the other hand, I would like to agree with the senator about that, at least it's hardly the weather. Hardly the weather people are seeking when they come here. That's for sure. Explains why people go to Iceland and not to anyone else. I have to start by calling attention to the fact that they're nothing but guesswork. This has not been investigated. There's been no assessment of why people go to Iceland. In my opinion, the attack on the U.S. National Institutes is completely out of the blue, based on their view of refugees in general. However, I am interested in this question, such as why. A senator and therefore, in my job with refugees to 13 years of age, would like to ask people, "Why did you pick Iceland? In the very few cases mentioned, it is usually in cases where people are looking for health care that they cannot have anywhere else. This is where people's children are. Why, who would not go to the end of the world to look for the necessary life - saving ministry for his child? There's not a lot of cases. The most common explanation is: I heard in Iceland being respected for human rights. So I may not exactly have a question for the senator, but I would like to direct him to the highest level. The government has derided that it is human rights to drag people to this country. [[The president calls.]] So I guess I can do it. A senator likes to jump onto the wagon with left greens in the race to the bottom by attacking the widespread decrease in the human rights of refugees to scare people away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Because like a dog. paritaprevir In his earlier talk, Jódís Skúladóttir said: "We can't help everyone. " [[The president calls.]] In other words, human rights are not for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I'd like to say that I agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Juddi's Jódís, Juddi's Skúladóttir, came in and out of his speech. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter remembered the words I could not remember, in effect, that we cannot receive them all, we can't help it. I think that's the situation we're facing. That is why we should try to do this as well as make use of the resources we make of this group as possible. I think it will be best done differently than with the approach here drawn up. About the statistics and the numbers as much as ever. A senator came in, I don't think it's taken out of the air. These are just numbers from the Foreign Institute, so I think they're pretty well-founded. The evaluation of the reasons for coming here may well be inexpensive, and there is indeed a real reason to dive. Of course, we should have done so a long time ago. I think that wherever people are involved in this discussion, information is better than memory, so I just agree that we should try to improve our knowledge of these factors. However, statistics are well reviewed on the number of applications in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u111	Madam President. I think the statistics from the Foreign Institute are, as it were, absolutely reliable. What I meant was, it's little significant where low numbers are involved, and then it doubles with very small numbers. Hv. A senator speaks of his wanting to do better and to do better with fewer individuals if I understand correctly. Hv. A senator does not want to take the course proposed in the laws that are being changed, that of equal service to people, no matter how they come about. So I want to ask you why. A senator: How does he want to do better? Does he want to do better by cutting off service to refugees? Because the ministry is what attracts people, according to theories. A senator if I understand him correctly, which, in fact, I don't think is the case at all. Then it must do better - should it not be increasing the ministry? But if we are not going to be attracted to it, that must mean that we impair our ministry. Based on my experience, the reason people go to Iceland is because here they feel human rights are respected. How do we do better without adding to Iceland's attraction for people in need?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u112	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is merely missing the time line, in what order things happen as I am putting it up. There is no suggestion to impair service by resisting this change, that is, a suggestion that certain groups of people who come here will not be added. Thus, no decline is proposed. Rather, it is being suggested that the law, the current law of these matters, be followed. Just to be clear, the approach I recommend here is not to add to the groups that come here on a different basis than under the hat of the saying that not everyone else who comes here on a different basis will be added to that service party, as it were. This means that there is no shortage of service to anyone. The suggestion to follow the laws they are, includes, that I think, reduces the stress of the system as it is installed right now. In this way we will be more effective for those whom we render service, by providing funds for them, to support adjustment to Icelandic society and actually do so, if I can put it so cynically, the system can manage its assigned tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u113	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his entrance, Bergþór son of Ólason is involved in this vital discussion. I just wanted to come up here and talk about the cost because he's just over it. It was not in my background, but it is important that we realize that when the cost is measured, it is for the Ukraine invasion. Two employees and a total of 24 million expenses in this bill were mentioned in previous primary plant, and the cost is 40.8 million. I think it's important to realize that I'm not saying that we're just shooting at a number and then seeing what happens, but that we've just become a fundamental change in the world scene while things were working out. There has been some response, but we must, of course, also follow the world's trend, whether something can happen that reduces the tide of refugees, or whether it will increase even more. We can never know the exact date of the day, whether it is refugee or any other means in which the State spends his money. We must always take the position, and this is the best situation, as it looks today, in view of the latest facts since an invasion of Ukraine. At least I wanted to get it in. It would be interesting to hear if anything happened. A senator has some other view of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u114	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's Jódís Skúladóttir for the counter-sponsored. First, I agree that it is harder to evaluate this party than many others. But the government is now doing a pretty bad job. The class that should be possibly the easiest to evaluate is the evolution of a number of elderly people in society. It has now worked out as has been done to the Icelandic government for a long time. You may need a little more practice on the slide board, the ones holding on to it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is merely mistaken for my criticism. My criticism does not focus on the 22.7 million figures committed in the last year or 40.8 million today in the bill. I can best believe that it's only on the top of a dollar and that it doesn't make any comments. My criticism is that the possibility of a secondary effect, in English by the permission of a president, would be somehow translated: an increased appeal to application in this country compared to other areas. It is critical that there is no assessment in connection with the case that my compromises. It's 22.7 billion. K. or 40.8 in the big picture, it just doesn't matter. That's not the big number. This number is just a fraction of the cost of the system today. I'm concerned that there will be an increasing attendance on these changed rules if the result is to drive the case through in this way. Just to be perfectly clear, my criticism is not in this figure set out in the bill. Rather, it is the criticism of the fact that that that number is a major factor in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u115	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. Now I have to disagree -- well, what should I say, my sister's party, according to Pirata's opinion here at the council. I have to disagree with this ideologies that we're here to advertise some sale product that's going to do a tremendous blow job. I can't quite grasp that thought, and I haven't seen anything to support this ideologies. We're harmonizing a service that's being performed. We're just fixing it for people. It doesn't matter if you come in this way or the other one, everyone has the right to do the same service. Another thing that I find embarrassing in this discussion is that when it comes to making sure that there's only a few people here who want to accept some kind of service, it's not thought that this service we're giving is to ensure that in the best way these people get into school, to work, to learn the language, to learn the language, to get into the community, and to be a good community member of society that makes valuables in the community, a labour market, comes into our community, makes money. It's a little crazy just to watch that every single person who goes through this process has come here as some kind of social calamity and will be there forever. It's just not right. Much of it goes back to its home when circumstances permit. The rest and most people here will be useful members of society that create diversity and value in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u116	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Yes, as with so many members of the council, we agree on quite a number of things. Whether we're members of the Central Party are sisters of the Left Green or of any other class, there are different days between the two of us. Some of us agree one day on Europe's issues, others on how to hone the resources of our country and so on. Although this is not the case in the media, it is quite often a conflict of viewpoints, although there are different categories of people depending on the issue. [[Up front.]] To this end, of course, we are not advertising these matters of the ministry available. It is known, of course, that there are others and that I did not want to be called in any sibling relationship with such parties in any context on any date of the year. It is a discussion we know, and it is known how criminal gangs will benefit from the plight of people. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk earlier today, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson mentioned it specifically, although I do not have time to recall the example now, an example from Finland, where the Finnish minister considered the effect of a slight change in them, since, suddenly, a trollop, not at all, came. The head of the Middle Party, in the opinion of The Finds, holds a hole of tens of thousands of additional candidates because of the slight changes made that would have been the major impact on them because they were the members that none of us would like to be in touch with who saw a better bisce in that day than the day before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u117	Madam President. I'm celebrating this bill. They're equalizing the services we perform to the people we bring here, regardless of whether they're coming here as eaters or candidates for international protection. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason earlier this evening has been the blessed privilege of working with relief workers associated with refugees around the world and has thus gained the experience of seeing the conditions people are fleeing, the bad conditions that exist in many countries where refugees are fleeing. I have also experienced the circumstances experienced by refugees, whether in refugee camps such as those found in many parts of the world, or between refugee camps, and along the way to countries where people would like to apply for international protection. The experience of having experienced all of this has given me a great deal more insight into why it is important for us to welcome people back. We must not, so we begin to sort people into different groups and show certain kinds of human kindness because of where they come from or even how their colors are and then treat others differently. I would also like to try to correct a little conflicting discussion with you. Councilmen who've been here before from the Central Party. It is said that we need to welcome back those who come through the formal United Nations organization. The formal organization of the United Nations is such that we receive amazing numbers of people each year. In fact, during the 60 - year period in 1956,2016, we received only 549 persons as food - power workers. Happily, then, only the increase has been seen. In 2017, we took 47, 52 in 2018, and 2019 were 74. I could not find any numbers for 2020, probably because the world was in Covid and few people came, but if the numbers I found in 2021 were correct, they were 57 people. Where did these people come from? Yes, these people came from Hungary, Yugoslavia, Vietnam, Poland, Krajina region, located between Serbia and Croatia, Coovo, Colombia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Cameroon, and Syria. From there, we've received a host of people. The plan was to welcome a lot more people last year than did Covid, and the question is how many people we accept this year as good - for - nothing people. Of those who arrived last year, it was stated that 22 who arrived in December 2021 in the government's special campaign to receive refugees from Afghanistan, after the Taliban took over there, who had a direct connection with Iceland. Why don't people just go through the United Nations armada? You see, there are only 27 countries in the world who receive refugees through the United Nations and actually only 25 of those who have a formal agreement today. At the same time for my last year, before Ukraine, there were 84 million refugees in the world. I've been to a refugee camp, for example. The Dadaab refugee camp in northern Kenya, where nearly half a million people live, many of those who have lived there since 1991, have fled war in Somalia and other neighboring countries. From there alone, only hundreds of people pass through the enteric system each year. People have been living there for decades, hoping to get somewhere else. So when we talk about getting more eaters, but if you don't have any trustees, it's worth keeping in mind. And what kind of service is it now that we are giving these people who are coming here, which we are talking about giving protection also to people who are seeking protection? Yeah, it's some kind of forwardation in the first year. Yet, there is a requirement for a job market to be effective. If they are parents, they will be helped with such things as preschool, school meals, vacation homes, and even sports and leisure activities, which last only 93/411 months. They get bus cards, they get help from Icelandic education, they get rent help, but only for two months at the average price. And the phone and Internet, yes, it's paid for one month for each family. Up to 100,000 bucks. payable for each person for health care and medicine. And if that fugitive needs glasses, he gets $30,000. There are a little more things, psychological help, and more. This is all we're talking about serving as a service, and if giving this service isn't just human beings, I don't know what humanity is. For an individual, according to the Ministry that made comments last year at Congress, the cost for each individual in the enterprising system is about 5.8 million, if the person is single or married without children, it's about 4.3 million a person, and if families come with children, it's about 3.3 million each person. This is based on the fact that some 10◯25 people are coming in as long as the number of eaters, a common number of people. So there are not some huge amount of money that is behind giving humanitarian assistance. It also seems like a pretty common excuse to be opposed to welcoming people that there must be an army of people coming here because we are going to perform a human service to them when they come here. The service that has been performed has increased, being greater, but the truth is that refugees do not necessarily have much to increase. This changes mainly from where they come from. And it's quite interesting to watch it because if we look at the numbers before the last year, the biggest group of them came from Venezuela. That might surprise many. Why are people from Venezuela coming? Yes, the economy has completely collapsed, there's a lot of terror in the country, and millions have fled the country, but because the Venezuelans don't need visas in Iceland and they're coming in with a link-fly from the United States, and they don't stop in any Dypsician country, Iceland is a popular option. If we wanted to stop this, we might easily look at putting on visas. There have also been people from Palestine. I wonder why Palestinians will come to Iceland. Yes, we were one of the first countries to accept Palestine's independence, and people have heard good things about Iceland, or like hell. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristinasdóttir Gunnarsdóttir pointed out earlier, people attending Iceland because they've heard there's human rights here. The figures for this year, the one of them, are nothing like last year. Aside from Ukraine, that is the second and second place of Venezuela, after which Palestine. Hv. The members of the Central Party used information that is being received in this way far more people than in the North countries, much more. Knowing that when it comes to welcoming people, we will, of course, be working on an appealing number, such as any other set of comparisons in the world. We always have the highest number per number, per appeal number. We always win that game. Just to give you an idea, 1,140 applied in Denmark in 2020, 1,460 in Finland, 630 in Iceland, 1,340 in Norway, 13,630 in Sweden, and in OECD countries the applications for international protection were less than 1.3 million. So, yes, we may have the highest points based on an appeal number, such as this, but the truth is, we took a break from it as such. Sweden received. We might ask ourselves, " Why aren't people going to Denmark and Norway, e.g.? Yes, there may be something to do with the fact that ethnic groups have gained greater power in those countries, and fewer people there and fewer to access. It is easy to talk about unfounded applications. It's easy to talk about some attraction, that we're doing a human-interested service in Iceland all of a sudden making Iceland the most popular advantage for people who're running from war. The attraction that Iceland has is that we are known abroad as land rights of rights, equality, rights for sex and gay people. These are the reasons why people come to Iceland, not that Iceland suddenly landed in some of the brochures of people moving from country to country. Actually, it's not everyone who's paying somebody to come here. We'll see, for example. that very many Ukrainians are simply flying here themselves. We can also see this with the Venezuelans. Of course, there is also a transfer and criminal hall. Then I just ask: Do we prefer the people to be caught by their criminals and perhaps to be sold into slavery or prostitution or other forms of prostitution? And that may answer the question of many: Why do so many single men come as refugees? There's a good reason for that. Many of them come because they do not want to put their families at risk of being refugees. They bring it to the country and then go on family consistent procedures to get the rest of the family. Madam President. There's a lot to look at here. In case of a moment. paritaprevir They were hired by Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who was known to me as one who would like to adopt the British system and send everyone straight to Rwanda, as the British Parliament did earlier today. But if you do. A senator would read the letter sent by the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees today. A senator sees that this is a violation of international approval of refugees, a violation of humanitarian laws, and this is the easiest way to break down the pessimism system. However, a senator was talking about the best use possible. It is my hope, then, that we certainly do not follow our cousins and former domain soldiers in Denmark or our former enemies in Britain's cod wars in sending people out of the country to countries who are willing to take advantage of refugees as currency pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u118	Madam President. This was a very useful speech because of lack. In fact, a senator spoke bluntly, drew any conclusions other than me, but he was not trying to hide his position on the tribunal in the way I have, even though some members of the Parliament may be doing in previous discussions about these matters, especially the minister who presented it. But because of how direct it is. I have written much more than I can get over in a short answer, but I will do much of this as a topic in my speech later or later tonight. But I'd like to start by getting this out of the big picture, if we could call it that, and ask why. In view of his attitude, which he retorted in various ways, he described that we were obliged to accept that it seems that everyone who came here from countries that are poorer than Iceland: Where, if anywhere, would crash. A senator draws the line? Is there any number of people who would do that. A senator said that Iceland could not receive more? If they are not, or if they are. A senator believes that we can accept hundreds of thousands - because there are truly hundreds of thousands, there are millions, there are hundreds of millions of people in the world who would certainly want to live in Iceland rather than in their own country, it's a good country with great appeals like a whale. A senator said - will go. So a senator doesn't say stopping at any point in terms of moving people to the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u119	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the questions and who looks forward to answering questions that will be discussed in the second talk. I just want to point out that it is probably simply impossible to receive hundreds of thousands. There aren't so many free airports to Iceland every year, especially when the tourism industry is returning. I did not say that people from all countries who are poorer than Iceland should be received necessarily, but I see people running from war, running from persecution, e.g. Because of their sexual orientation, fleeing from political attacks. These are all the people we could deliver without being here hundreds of thousands. It's the natural old fear method to always say, "Here's a hole coming up." It's not coming here at the end of the world. It's simply fishy too complex. Surely, then, we can receive far more than we do today. We could also welcome the people who are already here today. We sent a lot of people back, a lot of people at high cost, as shown in the highest response. Minister of Justice asking from what? paritaprevir Athosi Anna Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir. We could use it to welcome these people instead of sending them out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u120	Madam President. Hv. A senator says there won't be a hole here, we'll be so far away to the far north of the ocean. However, in his talk earlier, he explained why. A senator in Iceland would do well to live, explaining the appeal that the country would have for people in many parts of the world. Now, with the changes in technology and tourism options, there are a lot more than there were before, including Iceland. The number of shelters around here has been multiplied. That is one of the things I entered in my talk earlier as a comment to a talk. Senator. Iceland was more than proportional, because of what it was. A senator used the relative discussion as an excuse for us to be so high in other northern countries, with at least a number of shelters in the North countries a few years ago. Iceland is an island, they didn't make it directly to Iceland, had to make a conscious decision about it, and go through countries more and more people have done it because of the possibilities of travel, and because of the communications sent by the Icelandic government, and, of course, such as well. A senator rightly says, because Iceland is a very good country and has a lot of attraction, I would say better country than most countries in the world. But this calls for the answer to the question: Where should the line be drawn? Because if Iceland was to make one country, it would open up completely to say that all those who are in poor standing in the world or who are in some kind of prejudice, which, unfortunately, is in many areas, could come here then it wouldn't stop. It wouldn't stop until we couldn't handle it. [[The president calls.]] How's it going, man? A senator to control this if he thinks he should try to control it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I think our ancestors, the Vikings, were now the best person to limit the population in Iceland with the simple advice to call it Iceland. There's nothing to seek in large groups because people just think it's a strange country where it's dark all winter and freezing. Yes, numbers have increased, but the number of refugees has increased greatly, e.g. ... becauseof the fighting in Syria, the fighting in Afghanistan, and the fighting in Iraq. In fact, over the past few years, the number has remained very similar, increasing by about 10 to 20 people each year, perhaps partly because of Covid. Of course, more people come here when the opportunities are up, and there are a lot more flights here than there were, cheaper trips. It's, for example. Can fly from Poland for a few thousand times. It's all a factor. But what if we met the 870s who came and asked for an asylum last year? The world... [[Up front.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u122	There'd be a lot more next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u123	Not necessarily. You see, I think we could use all the energy we have to do the work we have to do here. There's a shortage of people here. [[The president calls.]] Why do we not take less of those who come from the Middle East or from Africa but who are always willing to accept people from Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u124	Madam President. I want to come up and thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd also like to thank you in general for this discussion here today. It's extremely important. We are putting here an important subject for which I am very grateful. Much has been said during the discussion and one of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator is how bad we've really been doing for a long time. This was also mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator says we're improving, and if we look back to the last few years, we're making a lot of progress and we're on our way. I don't have a special question for you. A senator unless he or she cannot agree with me that it matters who controls.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u125	Madam President. Yes, who's in charge is always important. It may be a pleasure to have these matters moved more and more from the Ministry of Justice to the Department of Social and Work. I believe it is of the good, and I also believe that ordering a refugee committee, the way it is being done, e.g. to tackle the situation now with this large group of refugees and refugees from Ukraine - where there is both control and society, individuals, businesses, and society all working together on this. When we are guided by our humanity, we can do amazing things, clean and secure extraordinary things. That's what I miss in some of the laws we have in this area, but certainly not in this law. It's good. It is written in a spirit of humanity, which is why I support it, but as I have made it clear: there are other laws and ways in which we are in this area where we need to let our humanity control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u126	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir To Gísli for the talk,kilmun Ólafsson Although we do not always agree on everything, the senator is well - versed in these matters. I have to disagree with what I'm going to do. A senator that there is a significant measure in this context to compare with other nations. I just don't see that there's another test. If we intended, e.g. comparing ourselves with the United States, for example, because it has one index of 1,000, it is so relatively convenient to calculate in the mind even though it is lower than most of the nations in the world, we must have some basis to compare figures together. Hv. A senator, if I just caught, was there 1.3 million applications in the whole OECD, wasn't it? For a quick search online, it seems to me that there are nearly 1.4 billion people living in OECD countries, so applications here in Iceland are well over 100% higher than average OECD countries. If we just look at the global scene, not just the neighboring nations, where the ratio is still sharp enough to the Dana and the Norwegians in particular, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator, whether in the assignment he has performed abroad, is not used in this comparison and the identification of numbers we are having at each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u127	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, it is good to use an appeal target when considering certain items, e.g. if you want to see if the infant mortality is rising or decreasing, whether there is more infant mortality in one country or another, then it may be a good way. But I can point them out. A senator is required that in every humanitarian work, we talk about the people and the numbers of them. In case of a moment. A senator looked up reports of how many died, how many were injured, or how many people needed food or medical help, it is not according to an appeal number. We can see close - cut examples, the war in Ukraine, how many civilians have died - not compared to the number of people who have fled. In some cases, when we talk about people, individuals, we are talking about children and women, and then we do not talk about an appeal number. It's so easy to use numbers to hide real things. Going to these refugee camps, seeing people escape, seeing men, women and children who suffer, who need help, these things stop spinning about statistics and statistics and becoming something that touches the heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u128	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer, and he certainly understands that this affects the heart of those who witness, and we all see it through news reports, even though not all of us are on hand to examine it with our own eyes. But I think I have to say, there's a senator who's got something wrong with me because, of course, these are all individuals, whether children or adults. And because of what? A senator began to refer to the comparison of infant mortality, which, fortunately, is the lowest if not the lowest known in the world here in Iceland, then it is measured as a ratio, and it is probably the most sensitive of all for each family if a young child falls away. I may not have a question in this for me, but I think we need a basis to establish that, of course, this is all - we're dealing with limited resources that are the resources and resources and resources and resources that the Icelandic government has the resources to play. [[The president calls.]] To get the most out of what we spend to this group of paintings, we probably need, though it's sour and painful to put ourselves in that position, to talk to some extent according to proportions and statistics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u129	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. To me, these people are not statistics, as I said before. These are people who come to the country, and in most cases they make this country better than they were before. We who are old enough to remember when they came here from Vietnam remember, too, when these refugees started e.g. selling Asian food that had not been available before. This is still happening today, Palestinian refugees, introducing us to the wonderful Middle Eastern country fire, etc. Let's not forget that there are people there who will only make it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u130	Madam President. I kind of have to dedicate this speech to myself. paritaprevir Gísli Héusni Ólafsson, though I was about to write about it. Let's talk about it. A senator earlier was so full of helpful discussions that I'm going to start by responding to it. As I had within my power of opposition there was a why. A senator is quite direct, and I think it's useful for the discussion. Thank you. A senator again for not trying to hide his position on the matter, such as the minister who handles the matter, but to speak out plainly. But more questions will arise. Hv. A senator seems to feel that there is enough restrictions on living in Iceland, that the Vikings called the country Iceland, and that the country may be very far north, far from other countries, and so forth. The isolation of the land undoubtedly had a powerful effect for centuries, but it has all changed. This is very important to the refugees and has changed the group of subjects since when the United Nations Convention on Refugees Was Arranged in 1951. It is true that the number of refugees grows greatly. Yet, as in Ukraine and Syria, we have often had more conflict in the world. There has always been more poverty in the world than there is now. Nevertheless, the number of refugees was nothing like what it is today, and this is simply because of large - scale communication and travel opportunities. That means even. that people will take advantage of opportunities to improve their terms, to move to countries where rights are higher, and to live better. And who wouldn't want to do that? I imagine, if I lived to form in a poor African country and a country in Western Europe, to form Iceland, I'd expect a man to move there, I'd jump on it. I'm going at least. I hope I had the strength to make it a long, difficult journey. But that is exactly the point. Billions of people around the world could improve their benefits and rights and lives by moving to Iceland or other countries of Western Europe. Thus, people must be controlled in some way. It will be best, in my opinion, for us to set priorities in that we help the people in the most dire situation, that we help those who do not return to their homes, and that we do not give the strength to help those who are in the greatest need to assist others in return. If we agree on that - which I'm not quite sure. Ólafsson I didn't quite get it right here -- that there are some limits to how small a small, small country as Iceland can receive many people who are here to move, I suppose we should, at least... to agree within them that we are primarily willing to accept those who are in the greatest need and most of their problems. Hv. A senator also mentioned that there were a considerable number of people from Venezuela who fled from the clean left government there, and from Palestine. Many of those people came from a company that lives in Iceland that organized them to go to Iceland. And if we don't have a limit, no boundaries, more people in many more countries will sell Iceland as their destination. We'll never get away from having limits, boundaries. There I reiterate what I mentioned earlier that we must, within them, want to do as much good as most of the people in need. This has been the case in the press, and as I did in a short entitlement, Iceland had most of the shelters from all the states of the North, compared to the appeal number just recently. Within a few years, in a very few years, things changed completely, and the number of people became the greatest in Iceland. It was not for good reason, it happened because of the message received from Iceland and also because of the message received from other northern countries. Hv. paritaprevir Rafn Hósun Ólafsson felt that it was unnecessary to set this in line with the size of the countries, mentioning that Sweden would receive much more than the population of Iceland. But there are more than 10 million in Sweden, and if we are totally going to overlook the size of our society and their potential to receive people, we are able to do less good than any other country, or at least we are able to do it. Very soon. People are going to come in excess of other countries, as has actually been the case. This will put a strain on the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic community. This will reduce our ability to help the people who need the most. Therefore, we need to put these things into context. Such a big matter - perhaps the largest of our subjects in these decades, even those decades, the refugee problem - calls for men to look at the facts and content, not merely making statements that we should show human kindness without explaining how it will be done best. Is setting priorities in such a way that someone who primarily wants to get a better job, improve his terms - very understandable that people want them - to get asylum here, not a woman with a baby on the run from war? I don't think so. Just because of the large nature of this issue, we need to examine our contents and priorities so that we can do the most good and make sure that we have the greatest humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u131	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for giving me a whole speech. I don't know exactly how to handle it, but I can promise you what to do. A senator because I never hide my stand in any matter. I didn't come into this council to keep my mouth shut. I came here to fight injustice and the inhumanities that happen here. I also wanted to correct a problem. A senator. There's never been more wars in the world than there is now. The difference may be that fewer soldiers die today, but according to numbers from both the United Nations and the Red Cross, there have never been more wars, and according to the United Nations, there are some 2 billion people who are affected by war or war in some way. 2 billion people. The largest wars going on today outside Ukraine may not often be in the media, war in the Yemen, where 22 million people live, war in Syria, Afghanistan, Myanmar, the Rohtians, the people who have had to flee. Yeah, there's a war here. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u132	Madam President. Although the war in Syria and Ukraine has changed to some extent and has resulted in war, war, such as in Yemen, has continued to decline every year. This does not change the fact that if we review the statistics of the entire 20th century and into this century, the number of deaths in war has greatly diminished. That's not true. A senator said that it was an unusually great war situation in the past few years. Of course, they do not improve the situation of those who now live in such conditions, and they need help whenever possible. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier, and I have not had a chance to find out if it's true, that only 25 countries, 25◯27 countries, receive a host of men. Then you ask yourself, " Why? ' Why, e.g. with this terrible war in the Middle East, don't the neighbors welcome refugees? Some certainly do, but the countries of the Persian Gulf do not say anything. Is it acceptable in our opinion that countries simply avoid, even very rich countries, some of the world's richest countries, to help people in distress?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u133	Madam President. I'd like to correct a problem. A senator. I did not say that the number of people who died in war was increasing. On the contrary, it has gone downhill. But the number of people who need humanitarian assistance and people who run away from conflict has never been more than that. The number of conflicts in the world has not been greater than today. But I can agree with that. A senator about one thing, amazing but true, we sometimes agree on something, and that is, of course, that rich countries are expected to receive more people. Whether there are rich countries like the United States or Dubai, they, of course, should welcome more refugees. We cannot always expect to be just the neighbors who are stuck with millions of people, perhaps because of a war that we are helping to cause as part of a military alliance. We have a good example right now. People are fleeing Ukraine, there are nearly five million in all the neighboring countries. Some of these can be received by people, others, such as the U.S.A. Moldova, who has had nearly 500,000 refugees from Ukraine, simply does not have the funds to receive all of them. It was a pleasure, therefore, to see that the decision has been made to lift them off to Iceland to pick up refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u134	Madam President. I'm not gonna spend much time in this statistical debate about war. Hv. However, a senator admits that the number of conflicts in war has diminished. But he argues that there has been an increase in the number of conflicts. This is likely to depend on how it is felt. I think that in the early part of the 20th century, and I do not mention in the 19th century, there were conflicts in less developed countries that were not even included. Let it be between parts. What I was going to make a note of was that. One senator explained that despite the fact that the loss of war was far less than that of many times, there were many more who needed help because of that. The fact is, Madam President, there have always been a great number of people who have needed help for conflict. The difference lies in what I briefly traced in my speech that communication and the possibility of traveling have never been anything like what is now. For example, when India and Pakistan were divided into and out of those enormous numbers of lands, millions were killed, the inhabitants of these lands had the right to move to Britain. But there were very few people in Britain, since at that time people were simply too poor to travel, they did not have information about it, etc. This fundamental change in information and ability cannot be overlooked when it comes to pursuing a balanced course in the affairs of trustmakers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have two questions that I would like to enquire to him, though I truly ask more questions. Hv. A senator is concerned that giving people the same service after they have received a fugitive's position, no matter how they came to the country, will have some kind of attraction. First, I'd like to correct the misunderstanding I hear the senator has. It is reserved for those who have received the approved status of a fugitive. Those who receive this system's services do not include the people. A senator is worried that he will come here without reason because they are immediately denied them. I can't do that. I can't do that. A senator's concern is that the U.S. National Institute is not doing so. Hv. A senator wants to do well with refugees, the refugees who are in real distress, and there we are with a group who are in real distress and who have been accepted by the government of the United States. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is: Does he believe that by cutting down services to these people, that they are less likely to establish themselves here and adapt to Icelandic society, are we benefiting Icelandic society? The second question that I wanted to direct to him is: " Did I hear what I was saying? A senator would suggest that we put ourselves together, or would shape a similar policy in refugee affairs and countries such as Saudi Arabia, that only now the last month some 80 people were beheaded, of that country's foreign workers? Did I hear right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u136	Madam President. The last question is, "No, no, no. " A senator didn't hear right. I don't think we should take ourselves Saudi Arabia and the countries of the Persian Gulf as role models in this subject, I rather believe they should think of what we and other Western countries are doing in trying to help refugees. There's a gun. A senator said that it was only those who have received the approved status of a fugitive in this uniform service. I am fully aware of that. But this is exactly what has been so much discussed, especially in Danish politics, that it is not desirable that the way people come to the country does not matter. I quoted Denmark's prime minister earlier who said that the goal was that no one should come to Denmark to seek refuge there. Then they asked if we were benefiting Icelandic society by cutting refugees from service. In my opinion, we are primarily doing the people most in need by setting priorities in this way, i.e. that those who are less entitled to do so or less insist on doing so cannot jump ahead of those who are in extreme need. I think it's the main thing that we make sure that the system is designed to direct people to as the safest and best way at the same time, most important to those who are in a more sensitive position and who are most in need of help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u137	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm glad to hear that he's not suggesting that we adopt human rights policy like Saudi Arabia. The reason I read it out of his answer is because these countries are not accepting refugees. Except for these, countries around the war countries are accepting most refugees. According to figures published by the United Nations Refugee Organization, 73% of the world's refugees are in neighboring countries. Then we are talking about adjacent states, states that have borders on the state that the people are fleeing. 73%. There is a very small percentage that looks further than that, or even goes further, and a large part of them certainly does not arrive even if they make the journey. I can't quite figure it out. A senator is saying that we should take ourselves as role models of Saudi Arabia, which is pushing everyone from or Denmark, which seems to be going to do the same way as Saudi Arabia. However, Denmark may have made an enormous mistake in its immigrant policy, which is primarily a mistake comparable to what I hear. A senator may be suggesting, a mistake that leads to excommunication, resulting in separation in the community, which leads to a recession of refugees, which, once again leads to antisocial behavior, leading to more poverty, a cycle that causes the second and third generations of refugees to fail to take root in society. This situation that has developed in certain regions of Denmark is the result of Denmark's racist foreign policy, not vice versa. And I'm asking why. A senator whether he is suggesting that we go the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u138	Madam President. The fact that 73% of refugees are in neighboring countries is lower than I expected it to be the first stop in most cases of neighboring countries. You're right. In fact, a member of the United States of Syria points out that the largest number of refugees in Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey, where governments, especially in Turkey, have tried to use refugees to create political pressures in the Western world. That's another story I might review in the second speech. In Denmark, I thought it was a rather far - off approach to Saudi Arabia's policy, since Danir has, in spite of everything, accepted a huge number of refugees. I'm sure you're right. One senator said that adjustment was not possible. There are many reasons. This is, Madam President, the subject of one of my talks here later tonight, the adjustment cases, which are extremely important. There's a senator coming in. At the same time, it is related to the fact that the attack must be controlled in some way, for if it becomes too fast, the adjustment will fail, even if it fails. I will witness later this evening's writings to the senator of an Ethiopian dance group and explain why it does not work at the same time with a general welfare system and an open border.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u139	President. I'd like to start by talking about what happened. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. He spoke of not improving the service so as not to be too attractive for refugees to come, saying that the service will be attractive for more refugees, more like, to come to the country. In this context, the problem arose. Gunnlaugsson The only thing standing in the way of people coming to the country would be a long, difficult journey, a better place to be. I think it's a little simple because fleeing from our country or from home isn't something that's taken out with the sea. It is not an easy procedure, and it is not easy. I don't know why. Senators have lived abroad or how it is but only to move to another country where there is a possible language, probably if they move to Iceland there's another language, and other culture, other people, you're far from what you know, away from what you grew up with, away from a family - it's not something that is necessarily desirable. I don't feel that it is necessarily part of the discussion of how attractive and how easy it is to move another, move to another country, and especially the country where culture is completely different from what these individuals have become accustomed to. So the simplicity is a bit much when it comes to this. Moving is probably not easy. There are many things that play inside, and when things get better, people often go back to their own countries. What we're discussing here is a bill. The main subject of the bill is by permission of the President: The bill suggests that a multicultural facility will provide expert advice and advice with regard to the reception of protective individuals. Then, in addition to hostilities and services, there are some factors, such as education options, access to necessary health services, employment opportunities, and transportation. A receptional society refers to the communities that have made a contract with the Ministry of Social Affairs for protective reception of individuals. I don't understand why anyone should be against this because it's good for the whole community, that people who come here for flight get the best service, and that we think of these people as best for them to be active members of the community, and that they can find their place here and go to work markets, paying taxes, children being healthy, children getting health care, and the people too. I think it's very certain, it's a great bill, and even if it was earlier, that the rurals agree to welcome these people. I also think that we need to think this through the fact that we're all human beings. That we should have no responsibility to help other people escape or to do something attractive to come to our country - moving away from their own homes is just not attractive. It is not attractive to go to Iceland for someone who lives elsewhere and has grown accustomed to another. It's a completely different culture. It's not attractive. It's hard, it's pathetic, there's trauma behind it. There's a lot of things in there. But attractive and easy, I don't think a word that describes what it's like for refugees to go to other countries. I think it's a big misunderstanding that it's attractive, moving away from their family, everything they know, from their language and culture, to come to Iceland where what, where everything is so great and people are so welcome? There's nothing like that. We're trying to head for where it goes, which is just great, and we're on the right track. But we still have a long way to go. I think it's a little strange to talk about this as if it's no big deal and this is something everyone would do if they lived somewhere and were poor. It's just that those who are rich are often not happy, so you can't simplify this much; because I'm poor and live in poor countries, I'm going to move to Iceland. If I'm in need and I'm running from war or other persecution, I'm afraid, and probably in any case, people are thinking, unfortunately, I'm afraid I'm going to have to go somewhere else. I don't necessarily prefer it, and if I choose to, what are the reasons behind it? Like other countries, we have the responsibility to welcome back some people. Of course, just how many and how and how these things can be debated. However, it has to be that we want to act in a humanitarian way and extend compassion to all who come to the land, whether they stay here or go anywhere or something else. But we need to start by giving these people empathy and understanding and the possibility of learning, necessary health care, a job opportunity. Most Icelanders feel that this is their own right, that they get the necessary health care. This is something that we're supposed to protect, that we take people with empathy and compassion, and that this isn't just going to Iceland and move to Iceland like it's a very easy decision, taken lightly; no problem, I'm going to have it better in Iceland, and I'm going to move there. It's not that easy. People don't do this without being in trouble - or moving - or some moving, being adventurers and all of them, but they need to talk about it, considering that it's not as easy as moving somewhere else because I'm from a poor kingdom or whatever it is. It's not that easy. We need to be careful, we need to be careful how we deal with these individuals. This is doing it on this bill, and this is just a very good and a lot of it, which is something we should always be doing and had been done before. But it's just great to be doing this right now. But it is a misunderstanding that people are going to come here in a hurry because we accept people with humanity and care for their basic rights to adjust to society, to be part of the community, and to be comfortable and to get the services they need. I just think it's very important that we don't take it as if it's no big deal for individuals to move to other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u140	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up the thread where I stopped my talk here, but I didn't have enough time to say everything I have in my heart on this matter. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, who mentioned that in spite of much government declarations that we could not help everyone, here is coming too much people, it's a little strange that all people can suddenly be helped. I wanted to point out the twin in that regard, although I disagree with the fact that all people who are looking for here cannot be helped. I simply disagree, but I don't think it's possible. For example, the rest of this year or during the first three months of 2022, 916 people applied for international protection in Iceland. During the first three months, 431 individuals have been protected. 431 persons have been accepted to stay in Iceland, received recognition of their position, acknowledged their need for either international protection or housing license on the grounds of humanitarian behaviour. It is interesting, then, to compare this with numbers about those who have been exported. I repeat, 431 persons in three months have received protection here. Is Iceland sunk in a black sea under the weight? No, I haven't noticed yet. In fact, according to the written answer, it's the highest. The Minister of Justice for my inquiry on the cost of mobilization of people to their land reports that in the last three years, 457 individuals were deported by force. This has cost more than hundreds of millions. During the course of three months, a comparable number of permission could be given to live in Iceland, and this did not cost $2,300 million. I can assure you of that. They're now on the land with a patent. Many people with employment permits, indeed, no other discussion, and they can go and become taxpayers, find jobs, find housing, start building their own lives, as we all want to do. What we're getting into there is then another problem that's in our system now that I've never really understood, which is that not all people who are invited to stay on the basis of some kind of humanitarian license. They do not automatically get permission to win. It is so that a patent on the grounds of humanitarianism is not accompanied by a work permit. This means that if a person wants to work with such a patent as this is also granted for one year only, he must first find a job, convince the employer that he/she will be given a job permit, hopefully within three months or something, and make a written agreement with a prospective employer and apply for a job permit to a labour agency through a Foreign Office. You can imagine in the situation right now, when there is no workforce, employers may not be putting the top point in the application form of individuals who do not already have the authority to work on the country and even have to wait for months to answer whether they will be allowed to work. The statistics do not indicate that the license will be accepted, but this does not change the fact that there are, however, huge administrative obstacles that limit these possibilities very much. The fact that these people find a job must be considered to be a great deal of luck and blessings, and it certainly is not easy and not likely. We add to such things as a lack of language skills and that people may not have their rights and education documents to go as much as they would like to be on the run. How is this going to work out? These are people who, since they don't have a job permit or don't have a job permit, simply have to accept gifts from the government because, fortunately, they are still, not that in Iceland, we put people on the gods and the seams, absolutely, and with nothing between our hands. In general, people in need, even foreigners in need, still have the right to minimal tracks in order to reach out in spite of difficult circumstances. There is nothing to shout, and it is a very bad situation when a person who wants to work wants to build up his life, start living a normal life, does not get to do it, and is really forced to accept charity gifts. Now, according to another bill before this council, I'm afraid, there are many foreigners, this fundamental right, these minimal rights, to lead them out into the street, to no profit. It creates great dangers for those individuals and for our community. I really hope that it will not go through and will certainly do everything in my power to prevent that bill from accepting and convincing people that it is not the right way. But with regard to the services given to those who have been given a permit in this country, international protection, as well as a patent on the grounds of humanity, this is no luxury service. This is a basic service that we all need. This is a minimum house dress, a access to education for many, actually not all, and is not at all sufficient, some kind of food money, and other such and social support. To help people with this support, this support, is no luxury, and this basic service is not at all, contrary to the words of some members of the council who have come up here today and are going to come back here soon, because people are coming to this country. The reason people are looking to this country is because they need a place to live. They want a permit, an opportunity to build up their lives, and stand on their own feet. You see, it's like that, and it always sounds like it's a lot to say, that people are fleeing, even those who can be called economic refugees, like Icelanders in Norway, Denmark and Sweden, all refugees and all the people on the run are just people like us. We are all just people, as different as we are, with different abilities, different expectations, desires, and the best thing we do in order for individuals to thrive in society, to grow to the good and the values of society, to give them the opportunity to do so. That's the best thing we do for them individually, and for society because if we don't, if people get excommunicated, they're preconceived and they don't have access to basic necessities, we know that it creates social excommunication that can lead to antisocial thinking, antisocial behavior. People who do not experience themselves as part of society are more likely not to experience themselves bound by social rules. This service is in our best interests all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u141	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank you for what you did. Porta's members for participating in this important discussion, since their contribution has led to a more interesting discussion. It's very interesting to see that once again this matter is discussed, because this is not the first time we've discussed this matter as we have mentioned before, it's also the members of Porta's council that's leading to its defense. In fact, the media has sent on the scene several times to defend this in a single talk, but the candidates seem to have not as well acquainted with the matter as the Pirats did, and they have always wanted to approach it in any other way than from the contents. Hv. Marty's members are allowed to believe that they are involved in politics, a political agenda, and a potential influence of this case on how it will develop. But I'd like to ask. However, a senator in what I've found to be somewhat peculiar in other interesting talks of the Porta council, that Iceland is not a particularly attractive destination for people who might want to seek a better lifestyle. I think we can agree that Iceland is a very good country to live in. So, when information spreads throughout the world, why not poor people want to take advantage of the opportunity to move to Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u142	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I can honestly agree with why. A senator for Iceland to be a wonderful country. It's a very good place to live. I feel good here, and though my curiosity has driven me outside the cliffs repeatedly and will no doubt do it again like so many people, Iceland is a good country, and here is a good place to live. But the reason I like living here is the least because I belong here, I know this, I know the culture, I understand the people, I understand what's going on. I don't like the weather at all. I find it very difficult and very boring, I'm just going to admit that I'm having a very tough time in Iceland even though I've had 40 years to get used to it. When people come from anywhere else, they may not experience Iceland the same way. Well, it's not like all people who run away from their homeland and come here find Iceland a great country. Many find it extremely difficult to come here and it is extremely difficult to settle down here, but they are forced to do so. The weather is truly big, and what we do not realize that we are accustomed to this weather, used to the interior, is in countries such as the United States. Where there is room in the midst of the year, and in the round about of the year, there are people in and out all the year. Even instead of a wall, you can just open up the walls and open them onto the street, and there's life and other things, and there's an enormous amount of isolation involved in moving to a country where we spend a long time in the house. It's even harder when you don't know anyone and you're only alone in your home. So I want to correct the misunderstanding. A senator that the whole world wants to come to Iceland and sit here because it's so great. It is simply not that everyone agrees. It may be nice to come down here and check out Gold Falls and Geyski, but living here is hard. [[The president calls.]] Icelandic society is relatively closed in social matters. [[The president calls.]] The weather is difficult, and the language is difficult, so I just wanted to correct that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u143	Madam President. I'm going to say the word. Partly a senator. I think that many, probably most of those who flee to form a war situation, would rather live in their own home, their apartment. At least that was my experience by visiting refugee camps in Lebanon and Israel. The people you met there, the vast majority of them, primarily wanted to be able to return home. Of course, there is a very large group of people who are simply looking for new opportunities and who are not making any plans. They're looking for ways to improve their standard of living, and it takes no very large percentage of people in other continents to have the goal of reaching a country where living is better and the ability to improve their quality of life so that the percentage of people in Iceland can become very large. That's why I ask, "We don't need to, in view of the fact that we're a small country to have at least a few. " any limit to it, any limit, how many can simply come here to improve their standard of living? Because, so I reiterate it, it doesn't take so much people to see Iceland as a promising destination so that the population would be considerably greater than the entire Icelandic nation. Is such factors not always inevitable?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u144	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. My answer is no. I don't think there's any need to limit it. This is not because I count Iceland quite ready to receive the hundreds of millions of refugees who are running the world but because I'm not worried that half the world is coming here. That is precisely because of what happened. A senator says, people look for where they hope for a better life, whether it is just life above their head or shelter. There is no one who simply wants to live where he is alive. We all want to live, we want to have a job, we want to do something, even have a family. We want to do something about our time. It is not enough that people can be somewhere where they will not be shot at an opportunity if they take one step to the right. I'm not worried about this because what people are looking for are opportunities. That is what we have with a good life, a better life. People will come here as long as there's a chance. This is what we've seen with what I'd say was quite effective, which is called the EEA and the freedom to travel within it. It's not as if it was Iceland but for the thrill that people here can make them look for better opportunities when they're here because then when the opportunities go away, people stop coming. This allows for balance. When people are allowed to follow their freedom skills, there is a balance. With all this pressure, we are forcing things into conditions that are not good for anyone. Something else I'd like to mention today and at night. A senator repeats many things he's said before and is probably there, I think, a little bit to speak to his voters, then I'm going to, possibly against better judgment, excuse, to get to repeat me only, too, because I've said this many times here in Pontu, and will do it more often: today there are 500 million people who can come to Iceland, sit here, without even asking a king or a priest, all EEA-city. [[The president calls.]] In Greece, 10 million people live. In Greece there is a 40% unemployment rate among young people. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Where are the Greeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u145	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ardius Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir for the speech. Hv. A senator came up here to explain how people who came here might have access to a local labour market more easily than what is currently available. I'm gonna find at least Not quickly viewed the evidence in comparison with the surrounding nations, but because I know why. A senator has been working in this environment, and I would like to ask her how the Icelandic system is in terms of the availability of inmates to the commercial markets compared to the northern countries. Now, of course, there are different rules in every country, I imagine, but I give myself to it. A senator had considered this to some extent. What I'm trying to figure out is, if we're in Iceland, we're shrinking tighter in that stuff than we're anywhere else. Then there is another general nature in the bioavailability of people of various welfare systems, for example, for which Iceland lives abroad for a long time prepares a period of waiting that I can't remember at the moment how long before they have a full - time service, to form in the health system, such as many places upstairs. Actually, there's a point I would appreciate every reason to reconsider. But the question is, as I say: How do these conditions of those who look for protection compare with those that we prefer to compare with those in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. In fact, he himself said: " It differs from one country to another. It varies according to states what the availability of trust seekers has, so people who are waiting for their answer to their application for international protection, people with international protection are always working on the job permit in all countries. Then there are people with a so - called housing license on the basis of humanitarian views that exist in various forms in the European countries. It is not consistent, and it is very different whether these persons will be allowed to work at a temporary permit. European legislation allows these individuals to have access to the labour market. The problem is that being able to apply for employment is, in this sense, access to a labour market. The problem there is, of course, much of what is the problem in this series over the head, which is that it is not the same in word as on table, what is written may not be quite what is tested in real life. The fact that a person has the option to apply for employment does not mean first that he or she is allowed to work, which may involve tremendous obstacles and enormously difficult access to a labour market. As far as this is concerned, we're talking about people who have already been given a permit, and I don't personally see the viewpoint behind the fact that people who have the right to be here don't get the right to work. I have a feeling there's some sort of labour market thing going on. There are factors to consider. But the answer to a question why. A senator is this: This varies widely from country to country, but in many countries people in this position get spontaneous employment permits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It has been tried several times to draw up the views involved in this so - called "pulll factor' in English, with the permission of a president, an increased appeal for changing rules. Hv. A senator has indeed entered it before, both in speech and in opposition, and perhaps our viewpoint in these matters is completely incontrovertible. But what would that be, in view of why? The senator of changed rules, follow them as outlined in this bill, which would be likely to increase the number of applications in excess of what is currently being applied? I refer to a speech I know why. The senator listened, spoke at once. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson here at the beginning of the discussion, in which there was an example in Finland where the rules were changed, and the number of applications suddenly grew very much. What is it most important in this? I know that's the whole point of view. A senator's concern is that this does not have the effect of my concern. What would that count? A senator likely would be able to make an impression, if any, on the basis of how unexpected this happened to the Finns in the past, the small change they made that made that made the most of the effect on applications?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u148	Mr. President. I'd like to repeat what I mentioned here in just another context, which is that government theories on why people turn to one state rather than to another, why the number of refugees grows at some point and decreases in others is often speculation. This is a very small study. Refugees are rarely questioned, and refugees in this country are not systematically asked why they chose Iceland. We've done this in our work, the talkers, just out of sheer curiosity. As I mentioned in my counter today's answer, the most frequent answer I've ever received is when I asked people why in the world, why do you think to come here into this awful weather and dark, and then people say, "I've heard that human rights are respected. There's nothing in this bill we're discussing here, which will have no effect on the embellishment of my opinion, simply because what's really being done here is no other than to give a multicultural role to conform to the reception of refugees, so it's not exactly an extra service. It is being made more efficient and in general, making it better. It doesn't even occur to me that anyone in the world is going to give rise to something that is changing or that has the least impact on the reasons why people come to this country. However, I can answer the underlying question. A senator who is: What do I believe is an impression or an unpleasant effect? I believe that is primarily related to this answer I have received from my clients over the years. I think it's a severe human rights issue. If we want to go that way, trying to make things so terrible that people are getting away, I'm afraid we'll have to go pretty far, even beyond that. A senator is prepared to restrict the human rights of refugees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u149	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you. A senator for the above answer. But I would like my second talk with this discussion to come into the real core of this subject, the main subject of the bill, and how the fundamental principles presented above must be in the system as it works today. There is an increasing background of the reports of the Multicultural Network, but these factors are translucency, so I can do no better than I can be able to accomplish the goals set out here to achieve a better outdoor and service to those to whom it applies, without contributing larger groups to the rulework and increased service compared to the service that they are enjoying today. Having doubts about this bill does not mean that we are being detracted. That is not what is being meant by lying against the approved approval of this bill as it is already taking place. Rather, it is talking against the increase in the service of certain parts of the groups taking refuge here. The result, obviously, is that we are under pressure to do well with those whom we believe today to be able to accept in a good way and adapt to Icelandic society. It has been sadly, I think, during tonight's discussion, a certain lack of understanding about how government messages can be affected, a message designed to make the country more appealing for those who have forced people to exploit. They're talking against it in these things. As I have said before, in my first speech: We should deal well with the people we help, but we shouldn't be too busy, because then we'll do too little for more than we can handle, and we'll end up on the worst. But the main ingredient of the bill. It says here, by permission of the President: The bill suggests that a multicultural facility will provide expert advice and advice with regard to the reception of protective individuals. I can't see that it's any problem to achieve that goal without bringing everyone who comes here, no matter what the way it is, under the hat that those who come here on the basis of today's armadaver system fall under. I just don't see the connection. Go on, with President's permission: Then, for example, it is a multicultural site to include the invitation of hosting and services based on available information and on specific aspects, such as the possibility of study, access to necessary health services, employment opportunities, and transportation. There is nothing in this goal that calls for extending the number of new and larger groups, nothing. The aims of this bill can be achieved in a way that is very different from what is suggested here by them, that I think it is likely, hugely secondary to the costs it will involve. It'll actually be less room to do well for those who come here on the terms of the cryonics system. Go on, with President's permission: ▪ In the implementation of this role, there must be access to information available to the Multiculture Centres, on the other hand, on the information of the rural community that have made a deal with the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is called something else today - a welcome service to individuals with protection and, on the other hand, to individuals from the Foreign Institutes and rural communities, as appropriate. These sources can be given to the Multihuman Union without extending the group of people who have the rights to the host. It's just not a problem. This is as often as it would be to be put forward bills that often have noble and positive goals that are not reasons to be opposed, but they are accompanied by something that no one wants to talk about. How many is that? The members of Independence Party, Front Class, and the Left Green, all of the government's members, have made a statement here tonight? It's all alone, and he couldn't help it, being the manager of the majority of the committees. That senator just couldn't help but come here in a pita, it would have been very strange if he had not shown up. It is not a great willingness to comment on this important matter, and it is likely the fear of an answer that keeps members of the administrations out today. What I've already listed is all the work that small talk is being done with the objectives and results to be made without changing the definition of who falls under the part of the service that covers the people of the city. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: It is important that the source of the Agency's identity processing information is clearly stated, so that the Agency can perform its legal role, both in protecting individuals and in order to provide advice and instruction to local communities. As an example of such information, basic information is available on an individual, including on education, family interests, and employment interests that are important to the need for service. It's no problem to reach this goal without extending the group so much as it is here to do, which enjoys the rights of the host today. There's no problem. But that is just not what those who speak for this matter want to talk about. And it goes on to say, with President's permission, and I'm still just in the first part of the series of articles on its main topic, this is followed by the fact that I ended earlier on the information papers: To ensure that the Agency can meet the needs of the individual services, the Agency must also be able to work with sensitive personal information and personal information that is considered to be sensitive, including information on why the individual was given protection, trauma, ethnic background, and health. Here at the National Institute of Culture, the information given to members of the General Information and Education Committee does not depend on the order now being used in connection with the granting of citizen's rights. But I'm not making a comment to it in itself, but my point is the same: It's no problem giving the Multi-Createries this right to work with this information without extending that group, so much as this is meant to do so that a lot of people will enjoy the rights that capitalists do today. Now, I'm only halfway through the main points involved, but the main point I want to leave in this regard is that if the objective is to provide Multihuman Rights to cooperate with this information to improve this service, then there is the slow game to do it without so widely extending public service to all the groups that attend here, from which they come here to the country and wish to protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u150	V.E.G. President. I hope to get to the point of ripping some of the major features of this case, this big group of paintings, but still, I will respond to some of the factors that have been presented in this discussion. Talks at once. Pirata's members, especially on this matter, have been useful in many ways because they raise big opinions, large questions about this. Here's what we talked about. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdóttir of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter over the limit, in fact, responded to my questions about the boundaries of the number to be received. There was nothing else to hear at the moment. A senator but that there were no boundaries and we wouldn't have to worry about it because it wasn't the big crowd of people who would come here. This reminds us of a lot of speeches. paritaprevir The Gísli of Rafn son of Ólafsson, earlier this evening, who just thought that the name Iceland would affect the fact that people would not search here except for global, weather, and that sort of thing. But then he asked. Senator: What about the EEA Convention, 500 million entitled to travel within the EEA? Why don't these 500 million come to Iceland, where Iceland is an interesting, desirable destination? And where are the Greeks? asked him. Senator. The Greeks are many, indeed millions of them, in other European countries, just as very many Poles have moved to other countries and Romania, Bulgaria, people from all new countries of the European Union, but also people from Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and, most important, have moved abroad. However, there is the key to the fact that they were not open to this move until a joint vision has been negotiated, a joint arrangement for how a community should be run, including remuneration, or who are the rights of the people to work. This is absolutely essential in opening up and using its benefits, and a common understanding of the rules and rights to be enjoyed should be available. In most parts of the world, human rights are great in Iceland. I don't think there are so many countries that will score the same high if there's a country that will score as high as human rights. It was noted that this might be the main reason why people were searching here, that would be the human rights that are guaranteed in Iceland. All right. No doubt it is a major factor for many, but there are other factors. It is for the sake of a standard of living that some today consider to be human rights. But the main point is: There are some factors that make Iceland an attractive destination, which means that if we simply overlooked the need for some limitation and there were no boundaries, as suggested here, there are many factors, human rights including, that make Iceland especially desirable its destination. I'm not talking about proportionately when, on the other hand, a whole world of billions of people who have far less quality and much less human rights than we do with Iceland and then a 350,000 people on their island here. Very quickly, the masses can become such that they tolerate Icelandic society but at the same time limit our use of the prosperity here and its independence to help others. I suppose, Mr. President, I don't have time to go into the case of the Danish government. I see at the clock that I've gone a little past the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u151	A little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u152	Thank you very much. President for tolerance, but wait for the highest order. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u153	Mr. President. Here in this third speech, I want this point to be followed by the obviousness of the government's plan to expand that group as much as is the case that has the rights enjoyed today, that it is possible to reach them without extending this group as far as it is suggested. I already recite some of the main elements of the bill, which show that the goals can be met without the dilation of the group. There's just no real connection between us. With this bill's main subject, I'm about to come up with something that's going to be a protection issue. This article specifically addressed it, by permission of the president: ▪ As with the entire process of personality data, the application of the source depends on processing in accordance with the principles presented in Article 8. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018, including that information is not beyond what is necessary based on the purpose of the process. In this context, I would like to review Persian Protection's viewpoint when it was presented at earlier levels, since the situation, as stated at the outset, is largely unchanged from previous councils, but it has previously been proposed to a council of 150 and 151 each year and to a recent meeting. In the opinion of Perone Protection of February 18, 2020, over two years ago, in Article 4, a review of the evaluation of the effect on personal protection, with permission of the president: ▪ It cannot be seen that assessment of the effect of the bill on personal protection was part of the general impact profile associated with its approval, dr. However, 10 mg. Thirty-five. Regulation (EU) 2016/6779. Personal protection believes that such assessments are necessary on the part of the Lawgiver, including those that the Agency has made with the bill. The priorities of the evaluation and the results of the evaluation would need to be published in the documentation. This is over two years ago. Then the matter has been submitted, not even twice, but without the fact that this assessment is being made. It is now that in this world we live today, in which there are more and more important reasons for personal protection, there is no other than to criticize the very Ministry or Minister of the Issue. There is now another minister and another individual, the highest. Minister of Ingi In Guðbrandsson, who joins the seminary, is called Minister of Social and Work, but before it was the highest. Minister of Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, now known as Minister of Education and Child Affairs, named Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. These materials are difficult to keep. However, these two Ministers have held the case in convergence for over two years since the review of February 18, 2020, with no regard for these views. It's completely incomprehensible because of the extent of the personal information being produced, as follows, by the permission of the president: ...to be able to interact with sensitive personal information and personal information that may be considered sensitive, including information on why the individual was given protection, trauma, ethnic background, and health. This suggests that people want to interfere with as little as possible in avoiding deeper discussion about what hangs on, which, of course, is finally concerned about the secondary effects of the bill. I'm going to go to the next issue, a respectable president, and the time has come now, so I want to pray to the top. President to sign up for another speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u154	Mr. President. Now I'm getting to the point where I thought I'd go over this big group of subjects. First, though, I would like to finish my comments on the discussion until now, since it was mentioned that some countries, Denmark for the sake of filming, went quite far in trying to be out of the way of the inmates. It is true that Denmark has undergone action, both current and former governments, in order to make the country less attractive in the eyes of potential travelers to Denmark, while improving the support and support of refugees in nearby areas and receiving vagrants. Thus, in the time of the last government, world - shaking, the decision was made that the hospiceers who came to the land would have to give their possessions more than the sum of money, money, and other items for the Danish of the State. In my opinion, it was too far gone. In fact, it was a violation of human rights. But why did the Danish government do this? Why did they publish this declaration and, in fact, advertise it? newspapers in the Middle East? This was not because the Danish government planned to profit from taking away the property of the trustees. No, it was to send the message that Denmark would not be an easy destination if people did not intend to follow legal procedures. Since then, there has been a new government in Denmark. I'll take a closer look at her policy here later this evening or night. It is of sufficient importance, since this is a vast and complete policy that we should consider to be learned from, Mr. President, but instead, the Icelandic government, with this bill, is going in the opposite direction. Instead of trying to direct people into a safer channel, in a legitimate way, they are creating a dangerous impulse, which I will travel to later in the night. Now I'm going to look at some basics that need to be kept in mind when it comes to policy plans or lines that are marketed on the issues of those seeking it. The first thing I'm going to go over is what is in a foreign land called "poll factor', or attraction. I've read a few science articles about how this class cannot be approached any more than to look at it primarily, how much attraction is. You might rephrase and ask, " How easy is it for criminals who sell their destination to people who are smuggled? ' This, of course, is something that has been very relevant in Denmark, as mentioned earlier. This appeal has increased tremendously in Iceland for various reasons but primarily because of the information received from the Icelandic government. At the same time as a message received from governments in other parts of the North, aims to reduce this pullpower is received from this source by additional messages, to the extent of at least Six times more, in fact, I think the proportion is higher now, applying for asylum in Iceland than in Norway and Denmark. Even the tremendous effects of the Korean virus epidemic were not enough to address the problem, in fact, at least Relatively, the number of shelters decreased during the final period because of the Korean virus epidemic far more in the North countries than in Iceland. In July 2020, when the distances that had certainly affected this stream were temporarily relaxed, the largest number of inmates that have come to the country in one month since 2017, or 1,096, came. This is probably the year, Mr. President. Most of the people who -- my time is running short of call. So, Mr President, I'm asking him to sign me back to the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u155	A respectable president. Here I desire this fourth speech, and they are now very short, to enter into what is in the case done by it. It describes that the matter has been presented twice during previous meetings and is now largely submitted unchanged from previous councils. What is revealed in the introduction is actually the case. I'm going to try, up to the context of the parts, to achieve the style and need of legislation, as it looks at the minister who puts it. It says, by permission of the president, in the report: The telecommunication was agreed with a team on the team's reception plans. The staff were assigned to follow the motions made by a committee on the concerted welcome of refugees organized by Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister 24 March 2017.• I guess that's been the best. Minister of Þorsteinn Lords of Víglundsson in the government of 2017, the future government of Birt's Government, the Restoration and Independence Party. Come on, here's the word: The aim of the Committee's work was to map up existing services and provide suggestions on how to add services to refugees after an application for international protection in this country has been approved. I wonder if the Committee proposes to coordinate a welcome system for refugees regardless of how the people get to the country, consider the activities of rural society, their free partnerships, and their relations between administrations, and consider education for the staff of the state and rural society involved in the welcome of refugees. Here's the core point of the secondary effects I'm warning you about. I reiterate what is said here, and the committee would suggest that a welcome system be coordinated for refugees regardless of how the people arrive in the country. Let's just figure out how the real world works. This point may seem different than that it will be more encouraging to especially those who make people's plight exploit and sell trips on the dreary grounds that have been discussed here today. This will make Iceland as much as I believe, a more acceptable option for such parties. I just remind you again of the situation where tens of thousands of applications in Finland grew some years ago based on minor changes that were thought to have no effect. The cost of this bill is spoken of only the cost of recruiting three employees at a multicultural facility and buying for them chairs, tables, and computer equipment. They figures of 40.8 million are of no consequence if we look at the potential secondary costs. Then, here in chapter 2, on the basis of the need and motive of legislation, a dissuade of what happens with the development of a new uniformly protected reception, as if it had somehow happened on its own and past the system that is not excluded from the system we live in. This feature is discussed, and it is then about the introduction of emigrants in November 2005, and these and the ministers originally made the agent's appointment, and it is being corrected and changed from the source of the representatives. And six shall be appointed, after every election, by the council of the embassies. By permission of the President: It is important for such a representative to have access to the Council, which includes the role of the Council to promote coordination and agreement between recruitment, rural society and the administration board. It speaks of the importance of having a local representative come in there. This chapter does not exactly say anything about the motive and need of the law. All of this in some way makes you feel that this bill, of course, is being tried to hide the main effects of this bill, as I said before, that the committee, at the work of each of these bills, would suggest that it be a consistent welcome system for refugees, regardless of how the people arrive in the country. Of course, it is understandable that one does not want to write it out in precise text to draw attention to the fundamental changes that are taking place. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. They've become such short speeches now that I have to pray to the highest level. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u156	Mr. President. Then I'll go on where it was left off. I had begun to discuss this so - called effect of attraction, the fragility of foreign cells, and the other side of it is what is called the '-push factor', how would we translate it, Mr. President? That's what motivates people. Of course, this need to be taken into context. But of these two, when it comes to developing policies so that they will be most efficient and effective, many experienced men point to the inevitable view of gravity. This has been an example from Finland about how fast this can change, how much it can have on notice, let alone in Iceland. In the small nation of this blessed and prosperous country, relatively little change in the currents can have very rapid and even rapid effects that the response will be too late. The example from Finland was about 50,000 to 60,000 people who quickly arrived on someone's roads who had previously directed it to Belgium. What if tens of thousands suddenly flocked to Iceland? Is that impossible? I heard someone. Pirata's senator, I think it was a bit of a drive-by. paritaprevir The Gísli Rafn Ólafsson, claims earlier that people could still not get to Iceland fast enough because they needed to travel by flight so that there could not be hundreds or thousands here. Well, actually, more than a million tourists didn't come to the country long ago and if the current were to be here by flight, then the airlines would likely face it. This is something we must want to talk about. It's about our ability to help needy people. It is also simply a matter of the future of the nation. But here, the government somehow wants to slip it through, preferably without discussion, as there has been a great lack of participation in this discussion, and then leave the system to do it and work on it. Although this can have a tremendous impact on Icelandic society, this government is not more involved in politics than it would like to look away and somehow pass this through to the point where another matter involving trust is concerned, and the government has repeatedly tried to enter through the council, at the end of the council program. It's 1st. Here we are in 2nd. ... aboutthiscase. This may well illustrate the position of the government today and particularly the position of the Independence Party toward the groups of cooperation that he did not trust even to put this issue above many years of the program, but it does show that he is going to finish matters that actually go against the other, i.e. this case we're discussing here, a case that is far more precarious than content. What do I mean by that? We've heard the logical support to the extent it's been here in a pita, to form from a few years ago. Marty's members, about the need to be humanitarian. There's a bit of a approach with this, we've got to be humane, and that's why everyone should get all this service and all this even payment, no matter how they come. But it is not human beingism to act in a way that may look nice if you do not go under the surface, do not dive under the surface, but at the same time make it harder for us to help those who need the most help, and this case will do as I will in a few things that describe why this case will not work out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel as if the speech period is getting shorter, Mr. President, but as a result, ask you to register me on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u157	Mr. President. Next time, I'm going to do the highest-food story. Minister to the influence of this bill. When I took the big picture together in my opening talk, I tried to highlight how crazy the situation is here that we are discussing a bill with the possibility that a so - called assessment of the effect does not address the secondary effects that are facing its approval. Here is the report in the opening section on impact assessment, with permission of the president: ▪ In view of the growing numbers of individuals with protection in recent years, it is important that countries and rural groups ensure continuous, equal service. A uniform welcome system is working to ensure equal service regardless of how individuals with protection came to the country along with the necessary help to deal with the events and also to ensure that those involved are quickly allowed to share in the community, whether at work market, in education, or in other areas. The red thread continues: It seems difficult to achieve the target of the bill on the improved and strengthened position of the Multicultural Centre to be a adviser and to manage, as it were, in the case of each individual or family member, i.e. With rural society and in every layer of environment, without bringing everyone who comes here, no matter how they come to the country, under the same hat. That's no problem at all. However, it is with some hide - and - seek, apparently trying to reach that goal without actually saying it. That's the secondary effect of what I'm worried about. We all know the term, by permission of presidents, human graphing, to be expected. Mansal is often used in this context, but I have to admit that I do not know exactly if that term is appropriate in this context or that others are used by better - informed persons who are experts in this subject. But this is industrialized, and everyone in this work, of course, knows it. Again, I recall the recent history of the effects observed in Finland, where a slight change in immigrants'law caused tens of thousands of excess attendance to come suddenly without anyone realizing what was going on. This, of course, shows how fast it can be that the tide is increasing dramatically. We see the numbers that we see in the statistics of the Foreign Institute, the number of applications in this country relative to our neighboring people. As soon as I say this, I always have to remind you, in view of how many talks we're gonna be here tonight because of the short time we're supposed to do well in these things, and we're supposed to do well with those we're going to receive, but we're not supposed to get too much in our arms. That's the worst thing we can do for everybody. This assessment of impact in the report says, by permission of the president: With the bill, the operation of the Multicultural Network will be strengthened. - I'm not making any comments. Because of the protective welcome of individuals, the Agency receives new assignments and varied services. It is expected that the new projects of the Multicultural Network will require three additional status values as well as a work-related cost of about 40.8 billion each year. K. as well as the cost of single - trade money to $1 billion. K. The wealth of the Kingdom Fund is fully financed within the framework of the language field 29◯ It's just not the big deal. Sadly, these over 40 million that are listed there are total remainder sizes if efforts are made to evaluate the true effect. I just reiterate what I said here earlier: It is necessary between discussions to request that the Ministry of finance make a realistic assessment of the secondary effects of this bill and the cases be passed to a committee between 2 and 3. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'd like to ask you to put me back on the rosary, I'm just getting into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u158	Mr. President. I was beginning a discussion about the nature of the problem, and especially with regard to when the political approach, policy, is based on mere outward appearances. In 2015 the tide of refugees increased greatly, including but not merely because of the war in Syria. That year, as a prime minister, I traveled to Malta and to Lebanon to learn about the situation of refugees and the efforts of international organizations to cope with this problem. It was a very valuable lesson, Mr. President, and benefits from striving to shape a course that has failed to succeed. Most of the refugees I met in Lebanon, in refugee camps both Palestine and Syria, told the same story, especially the Syrians. They wanted to be able to return home. The vast majority of them felt that way. They wanted to be able to go home. In many of these camps, there was a lack of proper service. In fact, they were very different, some of which were excellent facilities, food, running water, and fever, and all that was needed, elsewhere much less poor conditions, depending on the extent and extent of the support of this camp from abroad. Lebanon was accepting a vast number of people, well over a million people, but the Western government cared little about this, took little care to assist in the closer environment, at least Relatively small, compared with what was warranted. A man then saw that politicians far too many seemed to be thinking about that in his decisions: How does the policy go for me? How visible is it that I'm helping, that I'm good? If the politician could arrive at a station and receive the refugees himself, he could get in the magazines and perhaps attract attention but the funds sent to help, as this did even ten times as much benefit as in Western European countries had less attention. Then all too many politicians began to do what looked better on the surface than do what was most successful and helped most. Here we tried in our response to the bigger picture, to mix all of this, and to provide both considerable support in the surrounding areas, and to receive more people than the problem of policy management is deeper than that it is just about the superficial human beings of the modern governments because the remaining refugee system in order to form the UN Convention on Refugees from 1951, is based on a whole different kind of world, a completely different kind of world than it is now. This isn't new, Mr. President. As a result, this arrangement no longer works. It does not work to create the fact that more of the refugees or refugees who come to Europe today, according to EU opinion, are people who are here seeking a better standard of living rather than their own refugees. In many cases, though, they come on the same reefs, the life - threatening boats across the Mediterranean Sea as the English Channel. But the greater part, young men, is to seek happiness, a better way of life, is to use an arrangement designed to handle everything else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Now I'm just about to get started on this part of the case and ask you to register me again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u159	Mr. President. I have completed my review of the bill's report, which, of course, brings out what should have been all over the world, that the aims of developing according to the text of the report and the bill actually can be achieved without extending the number of people who enjoy the rights that are being enjoyed by the relief workers today. That was during the January 1, 2011, issue of Awake! A minister spoke for the supreme case. In answer to his background talk, a minister answered the following question, with the permission of a president: "To this bill, as it is established, are the rights of individuals protected in all the rights of individuals who come here under the cryonics system? That was the question and the highest. The minister answered with the permission of the president: 'To answer the previous question. The senator, then, is the answer: I have to admit that I can't read it from the bill text in any way that greeting workers have rights are being brought out of the text of the bill. I wonder: Is there any chance of that, chief? President, to the highest. A minister is in a house and could possibly come up with a conversation with those here? This is not quite obvious, considering the text of the bill and its report on how this is actually taking place, since what is being described in the bill's report does not focus on these factors. I wonder: Is there another bill here in the system that is expected to frame this in a clearer way? Because this particular bill is referred to in agreement with a group of member groups for the country's reception plans and that the staff were assigned to follow the motions of the Commission on the concerted welcome of refugees organized by Social Affairs Minister 24 March 2017. From the wording of this sentence, it cannot be understood that the changes have been made by the minister to confirm that he or she has agreed to be with this bill. It cannot be understood that they have been made with another bill at an earlier stage that has been approved. This must be the case in which this fundamental change is to take place, and this cannot happen simply by giving more comprehensive information to the mass culture. This decision for a concerted reception, to put everyone under the same hat, must have to work in a clearer way than the above. In other words, 2 Timothy 3: 1. If these groups are listed, I'm just gonna have to read my letter through this. However, if the change is taking place with this particular arrangement, I find everything else that is presented in the case's report very easily overlooked that fundamental change. I'm waiting for the highest. To put me back in a talk that will likely be about 2kr. This bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u160	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason introduced something that I hadn't fully understood. It would be tempting to pray. A senator is going to go further into this, but I have to let it wait because I was learning to discuss the nature of the problem and not want to lose it. I had conceived that even in the European Union, a greater proportion of those who come to Europe as refugees in recent years are men primarily, young men in search of better quality of life. I say, Mr. President, of course, that I'm showing it a lot of understanding, and it may even be regarded as a sign of success that people will take advantage of opportunities to seek a better life span. Yet, mixing it with the security system has resulted in damage to that system, making it harder for us to assist those in the most dire situation. The majority of Europe's backsupposed by the European Union are also people who are involved in criminal activity in many parts of Africa and Asia, especially. It is now a business that is due, I think, in most countries more money than arms dealers and drug dealers. In any case, I have read many news reports that this operation, man-salter, or smuggling people, gives more money than the crime considered to be a single business. I mention manal, and that's not for good reason. A number of them have been collected for a long time for the tickets, as it were, for getting along on these very expensive trips, for ten thousand dollars, or for the euro is not uncommon, or the family has gathered money together or, unfortunately, the most dangerous ones in all of this and is all too common to pay. They do not have 10,000 euros to set out on this dangerous mission, but they pay by debt. How is that debt paid? When they arrive at the targeted countries, they are heavily charged with crime and are often forced to pay the debt in those countries. This is a human hall, Mr. President. In particular, in the case of women, this is often collected by forcing women into prostitution. So it's not just a question of the danger of the journey itself, and it can be very dangerous, I don't talk about when children are sent out. I'm not even going to describe the stories you've read in the news about the horrors that children who are sent on such a trip may face. In other words, it is not just the journey itself but what takes place when it reaches a destination that can be dangerous, even life - threatening. These teams who practice these lucrative activities, unfortunately, advertise themselves in various ways and have made use of modern technology, including the U.S.A. Social media, where pictures from other countries are published and descriptions of what you expect, buys the journey. Often it is also misleading images of how the trip works. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Now I'm just starting this description of how this gang works and ask you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u161	Mr. President. For matter of subject two, par. In an effort to reach the definition of a concerted reception of individuals with protection, it says, by permission of the president: ▪ A civilisation centre shall provide professional guidance and counselling to the reception of individuals who are protected. Then, in the sense of this law, who are protected, and five of these are listed. One is the group that today is the group that falls within the United Nations Panoramic System. I repeat, the Multi-Screatation centre shall give professional welcome counsel and counseling due to the agreement of protecting individuals. In view of the highest. A minister replied that all the groups under the hat of the right entrailers are now being dropped, so let's see what rights are in this regard. On this point it says: Since its arrival in the country, most people are entitled to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year. Help with what refugees are entitled to, cr. However the rest of this section is: a. Budget support. b. Social counseling. c. Housekeeping, along with the necessary interiors and telephones. For example, education, especially Icelandic, motherhood, and community education. ... andschoolschoolindepth. B. empty-hour job. g. health care and dental. h. Service interprets. i. Help with the job search. j. Another needed help. According to this list, this is a story about so - called pessimist people, which is, of course, an unfashionable concept, a concept that the system uses for those who come here on these grounds. What I believe the council needs to know is any of these rights, which are specifically indicated by the hosting people, the remaining four groups will enjoy. They are listed in this agreement list in the bill and are, by permission of the President: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... persons who have already had the status of refugees. 2 mg. Thirty-seven. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016 b. persons who have been authorized by means of family partnerships to a fugitive who have had a post at the time. Thirty-seven. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016 c. persons who have received a statement of international protection and who have been granted permission on the basis of humanitarian grounds. 1.mg. 74. g. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016 Then I'm going to go over here to the E Company, who are stateless individuals, and in the d- these are individuals whom the Icelandic government has invited to settle down on this land in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. It is really the group that frames the rights involved in this matter. So there are four groups, as defined in the law, to get the rights that are enjoyed by the greeting workers today. With the reference to this list that I took here just before, the aκj team, that turns to the greeting workers as it is today, I don't see in the bill what the additional rights will be for those who will enjoy them. Of course, it is not advisable for us senators, without the premise, to take sides in a matter that is as significant as it is in the rights and thus the government's costs for those already present and on the way, so to speak, as well as for the additional applications likely to be on the basis of the changes presented. Because it's quite clear that my list of services for the least one year from their arrival in the country is additional rights at least. to any of the groups listed in the a◯e team in Article 2. That's absolutely necessary, because I ran through the lead speech at the highest. Ministers and there's nothing to say about this. A general assembly will have to have an opportunity to understand these influences. In fact, it is much easier to control them than the secondary effects I have been calling after an effort to evaluate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I pray to the highest. President to put me back in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u162	Mr. President. By the time I left, I was describing the methods of smuggling that were used to advertise their activities. First, of course, it is a matter of deception regarding our destination and of creating unrealistic expectations for people. Why else would humans pay 10,000 euros for coming up with hope and hope? In fact, there is a lie about the way people do things, e.g. It's interesting to look at many of these pages on Facebook, and it can really do so, since it often shows pictures of cruise ships or yachts to indicate that the journey takes place with some type of vehicle. If the highest. The president would be interested to study this, so I would show him on my website, the hurricane, where I published pictures of this, in fact, some time ago, at the top of the world. The president needs to turn some pages back in time. On my former journey to learn what to do, a trip to Malta and Lebanon, I met and met him. People at a European agency that is stolen from me face - to - face with what's called but who supervise the Mediterranean Sea and provide survival. In fact, at that time, the National Railroad was involved, had been employed to lend a ship and a crew to watch the Mediterranean Sea. But they may have it, the ones I met in this institution, that they were honest, said things honestly, and were more definitive than I had believed. They suggested to me that if a husband and wife had four sons, it would simply be divided by them. One would be sent to the army, one would be sent to the Taliban, one would be sent to work to produce in the Persian Gulf countries, build a high house, and one would be sent to Sweden. That was the way it was said, of course not in all cases Sweden, and not in all cases in this exact way. However, this was referred to as a typical situation in Afghanistan, and it would simply be the best way to care for each of these sons, and he should provide for his family. It is the fact that children, on the other hand, seem to be being, sent on their own or hidden from someone who works for a payment to take them to the West to seek refuge on behalf of the family. These people who worked with them all day, taking care of and helping people, saving them from the Mediterranean Sea, warned specifically that laws would be made that would allow special space, or special possibilities, if children met alone. The people said: " This is all you are doing, helping more children to be sent on their own on this dangerous journey, even robbing them or not even surviving the journey. You can't, Government - I guess they wouldn't say this in public, but they were talking to the prime minister of Iceland and saying: Governments can't allow themselves to set rules that contribute to sending children on their own or with questionable people on such a dangerous mission. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'm just beginning this part of your talk, so please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u163	Mr. President. The bill's report discusses 2 paragraphs. and that explanation covers more than a page. It is not quite obvious that this is a measure of increased rights that specific groups will enjoy on the basis of this adjustment and the highest. The minister confirmed, in answer to his debate, what is involved in that right. Two. is listed in the five groups to be delighted to meet the rules of a consistent reception of individuals with protection. It seems to me that only the factors I studied in a chapter on the main subject of the bill a few months ago are addressed. There seems to be no attempt here to explain to us members of Congress or to those whose bill considers the true difference between classes that the bill is incorporated. Where 2 mg is discussed. 2.g. says, with permission of the president: 0-2, 0-2. There is a requirement for a press post, to agree with the local community, to invite individuals with protection to settle into a particular reception group. This involves working on information about a receptional group society and, on the other hand, about an individual with protection and a couple together individual and rural society based on individual circumstances. All of this is fine and just fine goals that are not open to any other rights as much as this is going to be. V.E.G. President. It's known if the highest. Minister's in the house? Is that the case? I'm not asking to be called from home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u164	That's not in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-27.u165	In view of the factors involved in this changed position of rights, I don't think that there will be anyone here to answer. I remind you that I have just received my second speech on the subject and had just not realized how much information on these factors is missing in the bill text. This may explain why the chairmans do not participate in the discussion because the text as it is available does not in itself require that members of the Independence Party, who want to be careful with their money money, make some special comments about these factors, since it seems that they do not. There's at least some people going there. like a cat around a hot rock, trying to have the least of a hand on a fixer that point is frames in what I listed earlier in ten letters about the rights of a host of fearers. There would be no need to specify the rights of hostpowerrs in such a clear way and specifically state that this was about the so - called quota people in this list if these rights were the same before and after the introduction of this case to the four groups listed in the list of 2 g. The bill. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'd like you to put me back on the rosary.
