ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. A senator here says, they're claiming that this is a marked document before it's approved. I listened to the highest. The minister of education and child care when he was asked about national stadiums and the answer was something like: Well, let's not be reading too much into this. But if, as he claims, a new national arena is built, 15 billion will be missing from this financial program, and the survival will be off course. The debt status of the state's budget will be very different from that of the financial program here. The secretary of health says: Yes, if it is not needed, we must add to a nursing facility. But there is no written into budget after 2024. I'm sure I'll agree. There's obviously nothing to mark on this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u2	Mr. President. I don't know if I agree with them. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll, the son of Jóhannsson, that this discussion should be delayed. I think we'll finish it, but on the other hand, I fully agree with his point of view because this discussion has actually revealed the complete indifference of the European Commission towards the legislature. Hv. Einarsson Guðbrandur gave an excellent example of national stadiums. Although it was not financed, it was not relevant to a minister because the money could be brought in. Similarly, in recent times, counsellors have pointed to the situation of war in Ukraine and the cost of refugees. We have noted that there is a need for greater security. Ministers have said that there is no need to take measures in the budget, but then individual ministers have arrived and reported some expenses. Thus, financial programs are to be introduced as government vision for the next year, and they are to be authorized by the General Assembly for financing of it, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u3	A respectable president. I'm not gonna evaluate whether or not this is the right plan. But I find it rather shocking with a discussion like this, which has known quite long since when it would be and that it would have to be completed before Easter, that we senators need to have a word with a surrogate professional minister who can't see fit to attend. Sadly, the answers to the questions we ask have been: Well, I don't know, but I'll find out. That's pretty pathetic. I know it can't be fixed this time, but I hope to the highest. The next time we discuss such a plan, the president looks around to make sure that the Ministers are here to answer questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u4	A respectable president. In financial programmes, there are four topic areas under the Department of Social Affairs and Employment, i.e. the language field 273/430 and also a case due to services to candidates on international protection on the 10th topic domains of higher education, which are part of the 22nd class, and the Management Board of Social Services in the topic area 32. The primary objective of all services and support is that disabled people, those with disability or limited capacity, live a meaningful, independent life. An important task in a government contract is to simplify the microenergy pension system so that it becomes more efficient, more efficient, more righteous, and the survival of microenergy donors will be added with the aim of improving the benefits of lost persons in particular. The plan is to do this in phases during the election season and is already under way at the Ministry. The first step was taken at the end of the New Year's Day when 1% additional increases in payment for micro- and-replacement pensioners were provided to improve the rights system to prevent a so-called fall on the crown. This operation will ensure an increased sense of responsibility for the pension of those with a job income, increase equality, and a lower degree of variation in recovery. The next step is to increase the availability of a variety of jobs, both part - time work and flexible work, for people with limited skills. The establishment of the state, rural society, work market parties and stakeholders to this work is important, but experiment work has begun in 2022, and funding has been ensured since 2020 this step. The budget for the overall restructuring of the system will be discussed in the next financial programme. Then I'd like to mention a temporary budget of 320 million dollars. K. Because of NAPA services, it has been made permanent in the frame, while the management account for the NPA is shifting to the balance fund in the next year. In accordance with the Treaty, a full review of services will be conducted with older people and will be done in cooperation with the Department of Social and Work and Health. During the period 2022/2025, 200 million will be spent to achieve progressive suggestions with the aim of improving the quality of life of older people through progressive, integrated and individual social and health services, as well as the emphasis on improving human health. The social benefits of such changes are significant, but besides increasing the quality of life of older people, increasing the number of individuals who are actively involved in the community and who have less or later to live in nursing homes. In addition, the effectiveness of the measures taken to improve the benefit of older ones in recent years must be evaluated and the positive factors identified. A government control group across the department will lead them to work and provide suggestions on how to operate. Last year, the Department of Social and Employment Ministry took up services with candidates for international protection from the Ministry of Justice. A major and important project lies ahead in this area, and in the Government Treaty, the panoramic and clear policy measures are set up in the media, which include: that there are opportunities for adaptation and active participation in society and employment markets. The preparation of this project is already under way at the Ministry and plan to work on the collective policies of the seminary to complete next year. The main objective in the 30th work market and unemployment, is to reduce the absence of a job market, to promote support for individuals with impaired ability, and to contribute to safer and healthy working places. In the past year, unemployment declined rapidly. This trend has been supported by rapid economic improvement along with successful workforce, as shown by the recruitment grant of the initiative project, which has begun its course for the year. The number of jobs continues to increase rapidly, and unemployment is nearing the stage before the pandemic. In the financial season, unemployment continues to decline and to reach about 4%. The review of a law on unemployment insurance is now in place. A work document bill has been distributed at the General Assembly, and there is a door to strengthening the role of state - of - state sources in preparing and implementing collective agreements. A major challenge lies ahead in the labour market due to social change, including the need to make progress. increased technicalisations and climate change In this context, after education is important, it is now under the Department of Social and Work. It is imperative that the continuation education system be revised. Scratchs include in the process of reaching out to more individuals and linking studies and training tools to the needs of professional life and the interests of people. Thus, policy-making is being carried on in broad consultations with stakeholders. We'll need those policies, including the one we need. to be particularly concerned about the diversity of the target groups. Closer even. to teach the language for immigrants, to study for disabled persons at all schools, and to challenge for the so - called social change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u5	Mr. President. The hide between payments to the poor from an insurance agency and the pay centre at the lowest salary level is set to 100,000 dollars. During a month, there is no financial plan for the next five years that this gap is due to be reviewed. What a disappointment that is! After a talk at the highest. A member of the staff minister he was holding here from this symposium on the night of his highest training. I was hoping that something good could happen in order to improve the quality of the poor and the elderly. There was a combination between the highest. Secretary of the left green on the subject. Then there's a government financial programme and there's nothing to be found. Were the talks just fake, beautiful words at a good time, but in the real world, people will be trapped in a poverty trap? The financial programme speaks of improving the position of those with little or no income other than social insurance and in rented homes or in high - debt housing. The situation should improve with increasing opportunities for employment or higher payments from pension funds. So it is something that the government can consider to do for those who may be able to win at times or take a low position. But what about the others? And where is the budget to make this possible? In 2010, the commercial market still remains the same as it was. If the pay line had been followed by a pay sheet, it should be more than 200,000 bucks. a month, but just over a hundred thousand dollars. Are changes in the system not going to cost anything? Tells you the highest. Ministers that it is possible to improve the quality of disability and to change the system, and to earn little or nothing in the next five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u6	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the conversation today. It involves a matter of great importance and importance, often called a huff that had become in the interest of poorer people and older ones. Hv. A senator asks: Will the change announced, both in a government covenant and also in the financial program not cost anything? Yeah, she's gonna cost something, that's for sure. They are not identified simply because we will do so when the cost is at hand, how much it is. This plan shows us the cards for the first action next year related to the workforce, trying to create more part - time jobs, creating flexible jobs for people with impaired skills. It has been one of the things governments have been criticized for, that there is not enough to simplify the system and change the system, increasing the opportunity to work if there is no suitable job, i.e. More varied jobs, especially when working within the range of employment or flexibility, e.g. for people with mental disorders who may be able to work for three months full - time and then come a period that they can't work, or if they have any physical problems as high as people. With this financial program, we are saying: " We're going to take a step that way next year, and I can tell you what to do. ' The senator that it is my plan that from January 1, 2024, we will have a new simplified system that will be working on up to that time. That is why I said earlier that in the next financial program, there will be an explanation for the cost involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u7	Madam President. However, there are calculations of how to bridge the jaw. There is a calculation and it could have been inserted, at least Plan for 20203, the foundation for the budgeting bill for 2023. Madam President. I tried to find the word working ability in the text on the 27th topic field, which is about the disability and affairs of disabled people, but I could not find them. However, I understand the text in which the system should be changed so that it promotes job participation. Does this mean a work date? It has nothing to do with changing the assessment of the status of people who, for some reason, do not have 100% skills if the state or job life as a whole has no obligation when it comes to the recruitment of part - time workers or jobs with flexible hours. For example, some may have 100% capacity for some days, but for a later period only with 20%. The situation must also be taken into account in a country where employment life is not as varied as it is in the capital area. How should a person make sure that his or her conduct is safe and decent? What happens if you don't get a job after your job assessment? Is it really true that after a work record, people lose their pensions instead of increasing unemployment benefits? This may be the case with the forwarding of a rural society, where there is a lower price. Has the highest. Minister, e.g. research on the consequences of a performance assessment in Britain? I want to point the top. A minister has two studies on the consequences of a national performance assessment, both of which appeared in 2015. One is made up of scholars in the Universitys of Liverpool and Oxford, with the heading 'Don't make things worse, 'Don't make it worse. The other is made up of scholars from the University of Liverpool and the National Institutes of Health in the United Kingdom, with the heading ◯ Cans to work or qualify to be unemployed. Both studies provide significant results of the poor effects of functioning assessments on those with impaired function due to psychiatric disorders or chronic illness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u8	V.E.G. President. I thank you again. A senator for today's discussion. Hv. A senator made it clear that there are work for people who are more varied than what we have today. As a community, we are very trapped in the fact that there is supposed to be 100% of jobs here or even more. This is what we know. A senator is taking this first step next year to try to increase the number of jobs that can rather seize people with some means of working. Hv. A senator described it very well, and it is correct to say that sometimes you can work for one month full - time and then perhaps 20% for the next month or there's a break. I believe we need public tools and tools to help us deal with these challenges, since they are very different from just part-time jobs, for example. A person who has a 50% job and is only in it every day - it is another kind of support and extramarital that is needed to give such a person a chance at a job market but the one who needs to maintain flexible employment. And because of what? A senator mentions the rating in Britain, so I can say that no one is looking to it. However, we are certainly looking for a measure of professional ability to increase the number of people who go to the workplace and find that right ways for people to become more involved in society, at work, with increased activity in other areas of society, and with greater meaning in life. Part of it is to be a part of society and to have a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u9	A respectable president. We are here discussing this unbelievable dork, 500 - page publication, which I call a good - looking novel with financial jokes at the expense of the least. Just now, I read the highest. Minister word for word, I think, upstairs and I'll read it again: ▪ The object of the topic field is that all services and support, including compensation and payments, contribute to the development of disabled people, those with disability or limited ability to lead a meaningful, independent life. The survival of the microenergy donor will continue to be improved with the aim of improving especially the interests of those who are losing. I have to say exactly as it is, this is another time in which there is a promise that has never been. It said there's a hundred thousand. with micro-piercing devices. That's 100,000 bucks. after the taxes you're looking for, you fool, and you're going to get bigger. In this financial programme, there is an increase of 2.5% in pensioners and at the highest level. Ministers were exaggerating a 1% rise, which was present for an annual increase of 1%, was 3.6%, became 4.6%, and is now 7% inflation. Everything's gone up, oil, food. The people out there who send me information and ask me how on earth they should eat before two weeks of the month, realize that they cannot wait for the next four years for justice to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for today's discussion about this. This is a matter for which both of us names burn for, so let me say it. The 2.5% increase mentioned in the budget is, in fact, what is thought to be systematic growth. It is based on plans made, but what we can see, and it is satisfying that the incidence of disability has decreased in recent years. This is because more people are going to rehab, and more people are getting into the job market. That is why it is a big and important part of being able to fulfill the goals that we have. A senator mentioned earlier a life of meaning and so forth. So we need to watch that progress has been achieved in recent years. That does not mean that we do not have to do much better. And as we have seen here, and we are. A senator has a special discussion about later today, we're making changes to the social security system, changes where we simplify the system and make it more understandable. We make it more productive, we are motivated, not lazy, for sharing in the workforce, which is of utmost importance to achieve the goals presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u11	A respectable president. Where do disabled people or disability need jobs? Yes, it is by the states and communities that are dragging their feet. To say that we're gonna put 430 million in a system that no one knows how to be is wrong. We're supposed to simplify the system as much as possible and just say to these people, "Go out, find a job, you can, you like. Work two years, pay taxes. Is that what we're supposed to do? No, of course, you need to create some professional assessment, some very complex system where everyone is to be placed, in the same box. It's been tried, and for God's sake, don't try again. Try to find simple solutions so that they are seated down with people, and they will be able to choose what they want to do. But I ask the minister, is there no sign of this publication, the schedule of the next few years, of any impairment? There were laws about older citizens having 90% of their total pension, which are in violation of the Constitution's equal rule, and now the Supreme Court points out that there is a violation of this kind. I don't see any correction on that. These individuals, the worst, are the only ones who gained a dollar in return while others receive 65 bucks in contrast with a dollar. This is a second violation of the rule of 90. How on earth is it that this government cannot obey the law? It's simple. I'm asking the minister to handle this matter. Change it. I'll do everything I can to help you. Do not have a group with 10% less than the lowest improvements in the chain and a dollar against a dollar impairment. This is a violation of the Constitution's equal rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u12	V.E.G. President. Here's what you think. When it comes to working for disabled people, a senator draws his feet to state and community. I just want to say that putting money on a budget in the number of jobs is just to deal with the fact that countries and rural groups as well as the general market can have more work that is suitable for disabled people. This is something I think is absolutely fundamental. Hv. A senator also asks: "Why is it so complicated? Why can't we just tell people to go out and find a job? Yeah, it sounds really simple, it should just be that way. However, the fact of the matter may be that many of these people simply need help to do so, and they are the help that my people know to provide, the public should have a system that can support people in which they undergo rehabilitation, where people are caught before they fall, when colding themselves or musculoskeletal problems or what they are, so that they can be caught immediately and prevented from falling off the job market and trying to create flexible jobs for them or part of their work. There's a huge project, and there it is to take steps both this year and the next. Then let's get it together as a boy. A senator mentioned the lack of farms that occurred last night in the Supreme Court fell. No doubt a senator has examined himself, and of course we are reviewing that sentence in the Ministry, and we will fail him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u13	Madam President. I'm sure no one will know that in the next few years, a large number of refugees in this country will be expected to increase. In the 2020 and 2021 years, fewer refugees in Iceland applied the nature of the case for protection because of the transport restrictions caused by Covid. So it was clear that as soon as the restrictions were lifted, there was a chance that more individuals would be sought here. Since the limits have been lifted, war has broken out in Ukraine, and millions are fleeing from both Ukraine and Russia. Interestingly, the budget for immigrants and refugees for 2022 is less than half a billion in 2020. The government's treaties say that there will be an opportunity for adaptation and active involvement in the community. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: How can these goals be achieved by reducing the budget when refugees increase? For over a decade, there has been a debate about the concerted reception of refugees, but little happened earlier than a relatively recent time ago and is at last, slowly, a united reception of refugees, taking shapes, but not fast enough. The situation is that the number of volunteers has met with refugees in various ways during the past few weeks, since the State is not fully fulfilling its duties. Hence, citizens need to give their own time, service, even provide food and shelter. In fact, volunteers are taking on child care, which cannot be called a nursery, because it does not meet the rules for nurserys. Volunteers do their job with idealism and great professionalism and try to do the best they can. [[The president calls.]] It is dangerous, however, that action is out of harmony and that the State has little or no place to go. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there any plans to meet this group of volunteers or to cooperate with them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or is it a plan to let citizens stop into the holes that governments cannot or do not want to fill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u14	I don't know. The senator should respect the two - minute talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u15	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the matter of refugees, foreigners, and immigrants. Half a billion as a dog. There must be a senator in the legal field, I presume, because I do not know the decrease in the social and workforce. But all right, I think it's very hard to welcome more people with less money, just so they're told, there's gotta be something that needs to be considered in connection with some extra cash. Hv. A senator makes it a topic of consistent reception that could have started much earlier, and I have no doubt that it is right by then. Senator. The ongoing experiment project, which was started despite the potential success of the legal environment, could be better, especially on the basis of the personal information needed for this project. There are five societies involved. Now that war broke out in Ukraine, over 25 societies have requested both information and interest, and I hope that many of them will enter the same reception now. Hv. A senator also makes the subject of the important work of volunteers, and I agree with it. Senator. I even went to visit. This week ago or so ago, volunteers in the Theocratic Ministry School, where we talked about this, to come to a meeting so that the public can learn directly from the volunteers and the volunteers will know more about government, state, and rural society keeping the whole subject in mind. So the answer is yes, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u16	Madam President. I'm going to have to grieve at the highest. Minister by saying that this 500 billion. K. decrease is caused by a family language that can be heard and heard. below the highest. Social and workforce minister, not Minister of Justice. But I thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm glad to learn that these volunteers have established a link. I consider it extremely important for refugees themselves, as well as for these volunteers who, otherwise, would burn out in caring for jobs for which the State is truly responsible. I would like to agree with other aspects of the financial program on page 18. 420. It shows that increased emphasis must be placed on support for adapting to children of foreign origin and their families. I cut this off because I think it's just as important to consider adjusting individuals who are here and are actually just all the foreign people who live here. This has been much of my heart for many years, and I feel that it is too little for me to do this work. My question as far as this is concerned and my purposes are concerned. The minister's main concern is: What adjustments in the Minister's opinion are involved? Then I'd like to ask, since I don't see where this is going on, if there's any way I can spend money in ensuring access to Icelandic education. On page 18. 361 of this document shows the need to improve the quality and presentation of Icelandic education. Nowhere is it to be seen, though I now admit that I haven't read all 500 pages from cover to cover, although the factors I believe were found, there are no plans to ensure access, e.g. with increased subsidies and such in Icelandic education. The possibility of people who are looking from circumstances and cultures similar to ours has to be lifted up by governments where governments are a threat to their citizens but do not provide protection, where people have learned to distrust the police, a culture where no service can be done without putting money on government officials, where work and housing are mainly through ties that these people do not have here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The only way to get the sense of all these things is to draw close to the people who are already alive. The key is the language.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u17	V.E.G. President. I thought it was the last sentence of the dog. A senator is just what it's all about, what's about. The language is the key. I couldn't agree with it. That's what a senator does. The Treaty considers setting policies on the affairs of immigrants, and there I think it needs to be a major theme. It's about learning the language. It is also about having an opportunity to maintain our own language or language. It's about learning into society. It is adjusted to be loyal interpreters in order to be able, until the person is adequately qualified, to participate in the community. This is what I'm thinking of. This is part of what's changing. I'm concerned that here in Iceland, the trend is that people of a foreign background are more likely to have low - paying jobs while people we can call natives have high - paying jobs. Here the language is a key to the opportunity for real participation in society. Hv. A senator also asked about access to Icelandic education. Although this is not done specifically in the financial programme itself, financial support is involved. But I think, based on the number of people we're seeing coming to the country, it's just one of the projects we're going to have to look back at.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u18	A respectable president. We'll talk about budgeting for 2023 a2027, and here we'll discuss the issues of social and work ethic responsibility. I would especially like to address the issues of the elderly, the 28th topic. According to the Constitution, a full review of services to older people should be made. The objective is to improve quality of life through progressive, integrated, and individualised social and health services provided at the time and area needed. In this way, it is intended to improve the quality of life of older people, but there are also high financial interests in increasing the number of individuals who are actively involved in the community and in reducing the need for transportation to a nursing home or hospitals. The person should be the heart in the system and have access to integrated services, home care and/or support. This emphasis on the Treaty, which is listed in a financial program, is precisely consistent with the emphasis we put in the progress of our campaign. We stressed that we were taking over the issues of the elderly in broad consultations, in reorganization of the seminary, where there would be a key to increasing cooperation within the system. So I ask the highest. Minister of how the work programme in reviewing services to older people is conducted and how financial programmes are intended to support them in their work and in the implementation of changes. Then I'd also like to ask how the law and regulations work so that older people actually have a chance to take part-life, i.e. how to achieve increased freedom of choice at the end of the work and to increase flexibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u19	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for today's discussion. Service to older people is an assignment that I and the highest. Health Ministers have agreed to work together because the review of the ministry will include the integration of social and health services to a far greater extent than we do today. There are some good examples of this in Iceland. There are very good examples of this in many parts of the world, including those in the United States. correspondent in Denmark, for example. This is how we plan it, and we've already requested nominees in a group that will guide this with our joint chairman, the representatives of our council, and the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I don't think this is just a huge opportunity to do better, but it's also absolutely necessary for us to take these steps in view of the fact that we are about to age as a nation and in order to deal with it, both with the aim that people can stay at home longer, that we have more quality of life because their health is better, and in view that we can save money in the system by delaying the expensive resources of nursing homes, there is a great deal to work. Hv. A senator also came into part-life and freedom of choice of retirement on which I will enter in my reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social and employment secretary's response to the issues of the elderly. It's good to hear that specific work is taking place in cooperation with these two advisers. But I would like to justify the importance of frequent consultation with our rural society at that job. Now I'd like to go to the subject range 22, under the afterlife of education. I believe that there are opportunities now for higher education to be in the same department as the labour market, although, of course, cooperation with other schools will remain important. The secondary education is aimed particularly at serving short - term school students and giving individuals the opportunity to resume studies and to obtain experiences acquired outside the formal school system. The study and counseling are also aimed at increasing the opportunity for active participation in society. And I come to what I want to talk about here, the big challenge of the higher education, which is a foreign lesson for immigrants, as well as for others. The members of Parliament have been included in this discussion. It's Icelandic and it's an assessment of the previous study by people who move here. How does the financial program support that work? As we know, the number of immigrants increased year by year to January 1, 2021, 15.5% of total population in Iceland. What I'd also like to stress here is that the services to this group, the Icelandic, are committed all over the country. I wondered how we can ensure that the ever-growing centres, e.g. such as the East Bridge and the Knowledge Network of Parliaments who care for very scattered areas, with many regional incomes, can attend to the needs of all immigrants in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u21	V.E.G. President. First of all, I agree with the importance of being included in the revision, and I forgot to mention, of course, that they have a representative at that job and also the National Association of older citizens, thank you very much. A senator for recording this. Just to our earlier question and discussion here. One thing that lies ahead is the flexible retirement of older ones. Some years ago, there were changes that allowed this part - time pension, if I recall correctly, but I have to consider, and I agree with the senator, in conjunction with a flexible retirement. Hv. A senator comes into the after-school education, which is just moving to the Department of Social and Work, and I see an increasing opportunity in it because this is, of course, closely linked to the labour market. What I stressed right now is setting up contracts with the ever-growing centres, and that work is in the final meters. Regarding the revision as undeniably ahead, all the members I have so far are referring to, and I am going to discuss with many of those involved, that now is the opportunity and the time to watch and evaluate what has been going well, what might be better done, and to engage in a general conference in this field. That's what I intend to do. In that room, the Icelandic fluctuary is extremely important. But it is also important that we revise the laws of after-school education, so we better define the target groups. Impartials are one of the target groups that we need to be more aware of. The same can be said of disabled people. I agree with that, too. A senator that this service must be ensured throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u22	A respectable president. We are here talking with a social and workforce minister who has a number of problems that usually have a major impact on the survival of people and the development of life. There are many factors in this matter of great importance when we look to financial programs for an extended period of time. We see a major variable that weighs heavily, which is inflation, and the impact of inflation on human survival. She is already biting on people, the growths that are taking place today. It has a lot to do with other major variables that are that country's collective agreement. The financial agenda is to talk about and assume that the work will be initiated or responsible agreements, as I think they're expected to be 1561.5% above inflation. We see that prophets say that inflation can start knocking on top of 10%. V.E.G. A minister once said that they must now negotiate, but let us remember that, of course, the state is just a big contract partner, a big professional, with more than 30% of his salary expenses. I'm just wondering how to get to the top. The Minister intends to approach a man-to-be contract to come, which will be very difficult for me to think of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u23	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the workforce discussion. Of course I agree with his concern for increased inflation. It is prophesied that it will rise at this time and then resolve again. In this context, my concerns may be primarily due to the tenants of rented, low - paying children's families. Well, here's the question. I just want to say that we don't realize that we're behind the budget into a financial program to a collective agreement that's not yet taken place. They'll have to deal with it in budgets. However, we have a large reserve that, of course, needs to be taken up, and the collective agreement is clearly one of them. I think it is, and agree with the what. A senator, just a very big challenge ahead of the labour market when it comes to the collective agreement. It is also true that the state is a large contract party, but it is now a financial minister who will represent that case on the behalf of the State. But the months to come, hopefully, will be of good use. At any rate, I know that a state paramour is doing some good preparatory work in order to be better equipped if he needs his help, which I don't doubt will happen in some case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Despite the fact that some money is not necessarily being put into the chests right now to face this, there are, of course, some actions in the financial bill that can contribute to the insignificance of dress contracts. But I don't see that being useful. I just want to talk about the ground proposals to earn people's money. They are also useful to disabled people. They also benefit students. They're cutting it down at Trog, and this is gonna make wolf spray because it was one of the big cases being mentioned in the last bargain agreements. Of course, seeing it cut down like that is being done will only improve the problem. So I feel somehow that it's not like I'm looking to make some kind of peace that can help to cover the collectives. The foundation proposal, housing - the Minister's concern is that the tenant - rent - just the inflation present today has taken away the pay raise that took place for the year's pay. It's just the real situation with the earnings of people. And cutting down the stock industry now that this operation alone could have eased the community system just completely out. I can't figure out what the government's going to do when she goes to cut down the stocks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u25	V.E.G. President. I don't know. A senator is now joining a seminary at the Department of Internal Affairs, but I'm sure this discussion is under way. A senator here too, there's nothing against it. A national body was established now for a month or two, I wonder if it is due to be two, to work specifically on housing measures. He's due now for the end of the month, if I remember correctly, at the end of April, and there we'll expect to see suggestions that are therefore clearly not included in this financial program. But I'd like to say that the established contributions made by the government during the last term have been very effective. If I recall this correctly, about one third of the apartments they're building are thus building. However, there is a lack of property in the rural community, which is probably the major factor in the fact that this area is not built more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u26	Madam President. All I wanted to do was introduce an older citizen's case at the highest level. Minister. This is shown on page 22. 416 in the program the importance of continuing to improve the survival of pensioners. I agree with that, and then the natural impairments of older citizens have so much promoted that they should not take place, the lack of pay to older citizens, both in insurance institutions and pension payments. This is very important, and we all agree that the older citizens' employment parties are the most important. Recently, the pay market for employment was raised by 200,000 dollars. I'd like to get some from the Minister if he could see any further increases at this holiday target. But now it is, in fact, that although this action is truly a cause for joy, it may not be useful enough. I think there was a talk about it back then, in the autumn months when this was changed, that it would be useful between 131⁄215% of the professional markets. It's the highest. Minister to see that the holiday goal will be up? Is there any sign in this program of raising it? It is natural and encourages that older people stay at work for those who have health, ability, and will for them, as we all know public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion on the affairs of older people. First, I would like to say that with the system change made in 2017, there was a tremendous step to simplify the system but also to improve the interests of older people, and we must not forget it in this discussion, just not at all. In the days of my career, those who have mentioned the hands among the older ones were given special legal training that greatly brought them up. This helped to deal with the problems of a group that were, if I recall correctly, 3,000,4,000 people who had failed to produce in a group of older ones. They were there. That was an enormous step. What we have to focus on in the affairs of older people in the years ahead is to continue taking care of the groups that are mentioned among the hands. That's what I think should be my priorities. That's what we're working on at the Department of Social Affairs. I agree that it is important for people to have an opportunity to do business, but changes in the job market will be far less effective. A senator mentioned, and I think that what we need to consider is either based on the specific legislation that raised the names of people mentioned among the hands or about to consider that an increase in the general budget that would benefit others but also costs much, much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u28	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I agree with him that it is very important to consider that the number of seniors in this group is, however, a fairly large group. In this regard, it is important that people have much to do with their hands that they simply do not live in poverty. There's something else I would have wanted to ask the highest. Ministers out to, but there are payments for those in a nursing home who are sometimes referred to as allowances, which may not be a suitable word. A person with only a right $250,000. By taxing in income and living in a home, some 50,000 may be obtained. which he will have to survive, such as to be able to feed himself in the everyday affairs of a month. This is naturally an extremely small sum of money. It's the highest. A minister can imagine trying to straighten this out in some way? This is of great importance to these individuals. Then I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. This is what one minister said about the general budget, which is now $25,000. in pensions, that it is indeed necessary to raise it. Is there any sign in the financial program that this vacation market is going to be up, even if it's not much? True, that is absolutely right. Minister said, this is a financial project. But there's a lot of things going on, and it's normal, with this talking about plan for five years, that there's some sign that there's an increase in this holiday target.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u29	V.E.G. President. About a question why. I think a senator's payment for nursing homes is worth the effort to make a change. In fact, groups of people who have been discussing the interests of older ones have pointed out that it may be wise to view people as keeping what they have when they go in and paying them in. But it's something that I think needs to see what's best for older people. I think we just agree that it's the goal to consider that the rise in the cost market, this common holiday goal, has not been raised since the law of 2017, and has taken place in $25,000. By doing so, we might be better able to meet others, thirds, and even up to the fourth level of income for older ones and, of course, others too. But I think this would really matter. This is not expected in the current financial programme. But this is something that will enter the group I am in order to be taken in. this should be considered. We'll have to see if there's any money left to put into it. This is also one of the main conflicts of older people, and I understand them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u30	V.E.G. President. No. 12, 13, and in part 7, 17 and 21. In contrast, major financials turn toward agrienvironmental areas where annual sources are expected to be around 19 billion dollars. During the planned period and approximately 6.4/66.8 billion in the field of fishing and fishing. The biggest changes in the season are buying new ocean research vessels, but in 223, 2 billion dollars fall. contributes to the project. As of 2019 C.E., about 5.8 billion are being provided for the project, but no further contributions for the project are expected. The agreements for the building were signed on March 31, and it is planned that the ship be delivered in 2024. The other major changes turn to demolition at 700 billion. K. temporary contribution entered into budgets 2022 to one year in support of farmers for an increase in prices. Then in 2023, 200 million are expected. K. temporary donation for one year to the whale count. Agrienvironment schemes will be developed in a broad range of agricultural schemes through sustainable agriculture and innovation, as well as emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions along with increasing food safety. Clearly, one of today's greatest challenges lies in climate change, its impact on food production, and its adjustment. Governments have set goals for lack of carbon before 2040, and the previous revision of agricultural agreements focused on climate and set goals for agriculture to be fully leveled in 2040. It is important to create the agriculture requirement for it to develop and support innovation and development without making any demands. At a subsequent review of agricultural contracts in 2020, the Government Treaty will emphasize the security of Iceland by promoting domestic agricultural production. Agricultural growth and development of agricultural support on the basis of sustainable uses for climate, environment and nature protection and culture diversity is expected. In the field of fishing and fishing, the creation of marine roads and fish farming conditions for increased resource development is being guided by sustainable efficiency and eco-efficiency. In addition, the plan puts emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fish and fish farms, on increasing efficiency of products and minimising waste. In the years to come, marine soil and fish farms face many challenges. The largest of them is man - made climate change. The worksheets depend on the scientific, careful approach to sustainable use to guide their use. Seafood and fish farms live under the most challenging international competition, so their environment needs to be competitive to live up to the role they have in Icelandic society. It is important that the management conditions of the articles meet the highest demand for sustainable use and protection of living resources in order to ensure that European seas and fish farms are in the top order. The ocean is going to be a map of challenges and opportunities in the fishing field, where their final products of work will be included. a bill for new legislation on the control of fish fishing or the total seawater resources in 2024. There will be work on energy exchanges, innovations, marine research, and the transparency of property connections in the oceans. In the early years in fish farming, growth has become a challenge. Hence, the overall policy of building, repair, and deposit will be taken in fish farms. The Treaty stipulates energy exchange in the fishing road and continues to work on these materials based on proposed recent reports of green soils. To contribute to the development of fishing and fishing, a powerful system will soon be established. There, the Environmental Fund plays an important role. In the coming years, challenges involve change in the environment, climate change, marine ecosystems, and the spread of fish species. The creation of Food Fund in 2020 laid an important foundation for strengthening the development and innovation of agricultural and marine food products. This year it will be 593 billion. K. to divide from the fund. In the years to come, the sea will promote an increase in the value and rivalry of Icelandic food production. Finally, I would like to mention that areas of land healing and deforestation were transferred to the Food Ministry for the dissociation of the Management Board's issues. There will continue to be important work to deal with climates, to improve ecosystems, recover ecosystems lost in the past decades and centuries, and there I would like to mention the particular Bonn challenge as in the year 2030, to have recovered the forest environment in 5% of the country, but today they cover about 1.5%.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u31	Madam President. In the last few decades, a large convergence has taken place in the fishing waters. The largest of these types are more than half of the quathane, and 20 the largest is more than 70% of the quathane. Added to this is the possession of these developers in other preparations. More than 20 years ago, there were approved legal adjustments designed to work specifically against the compression of the fiscal sector. Community compression was considered harmful, especially because of the importance of fishing for Icelandic national farming. Conspiracy prevented competition and inhibited needed renewal. It was noted that compression could work directly against national economy, especially if the person was not involved in creating as much valuable as possible from the resource. A move between rural areas would damage rural society and a transfer between deforestation groups could lead to lower deforestation. Too strong the authority of a few people over the fishing resources would mean that they have more authority in society than would be healthy and too strong to control governments. The creationists invest in other fields and breed there, e.g. by buying a share in a bank, as if it were true. Clearly, the law has not achieved its purpose. Thus, one individual can share in over half of the quatans each year assigned. Clearly, this interpretation of the law promotes compression and is contrary to their spirit. The highest. A minister did not agree with me that it is necessary to counteract such compression by changing the fish - control laws, such as the Project Management of Improving the Fishing Resource proposed in his report published at the end of 2019?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion on this subject. Hv. A senator introduces a very important matter, which is a seabed compression. The Treaty of the Government states that there will be a review of the fish fishing regime, the transparent of the article, etc. and the highest. A food secretary has already started work to prepare consultations and conversations about this. It has been published in the government's consultations about how they intend to approach this subject. But I can say that I think that, as defined in Article 1 of the country's Common Resources and Resources, it's part of the country. the management of fishing management is one of the basic factors in considering the compression in the marine soil or the use of the crops. There's something I think we should do. A senator can agree on this. Another key, of course, is that we continue to look forward to sustainable use of marine resources and that, of course, there is a price to be paid when private citizens use this common resource of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u33	Madam President. Yes, it is with the reports that many now exist in the fishing business and may be able to use some of them to improve the system. For the treatment of a professional road committee, the bill I'm the first transporter to. The bill aims to implement the Commission's proposal for improving the control of fish resources produced by the Management Board to the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural Minister on December 30, 2019. The project management was, among other things, assigned to the project. ..."to respond to the information provided in the European Commission for review of the Marine Monitoring Agency, which is responsible for the compression of the Agency's resources. There are some good reports to build on to improve the system. The Project Management Board suggested that the definition of a party would be reached by married couples, partners, and their children and that a certain administrative relationship between companies would lead to a relationship that would be linked unless it was established in the financial law. According to the 2018 law on real owners, it counts. to the actual owner who actually has or operates a law by direct or indirect ownership of more than 25% of the legislators, has more than 25% voting rights, or is considered to have other authority over the legislators. The difference between property connections defined by fish management laws and the laws on real owners is ambiguous, and a person can be considered to be the owner of a law without being considered to be linked to someone under the law on fish control. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that the law needs to be revised immediately for the purpose and spirit proposed by the Project Government and the government accountant made it necessary to do so and that no further reports have to be waiting to help counteract harmful fishing conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u34	V.E.G. President. Hv. One senator noted that there are many reports, and if I remember correctly, someone said that many were committees. We might even begin to say: Many are also reports. That would rhyme with it. Of course, without a joke, there is a lot of material that exists there. V.E.G. A food secretary has felt that a new approach to this subject needs to be made. These are major challenges, but there are also major fishing opportunities that affect society in a direct or indirect way. Of that we all agree. So, instead of one large committee, the Minister intends to establish an open and transparent project of a number of people who will be organized. And this is exactly one of the things that will be taken up in the above - mentioned policy work I mentioned above. However, it may also be noted that during the last term, there was a bill presented that did not succeed, and the minister takes care of it, as I understand it, that this work can enter this channel, and that this will be a factor, linked to people in the fishing grounds, viewed as part of the overall policy development work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u35	Madam President. I just wanted to come into the agriculture business at the highest level. Ministers and whether there is any evidence in the budget that the government is promoting agriculture. How important it is that young farmers have the opportunity to have older generations without forming a heavy debt load! We also know that because of only natural ties with inheritance and land and life - style, land and land exchanges are far more common than in other businesses. Also, it is often the will of those who possess the earth to be arranged within the family and even to some relatives who intend to continue their farming. This, however, may be a serious problem for such soils to be taken into account for younger generations without the burden of such a stock for the individual. Then, in recent years, the value of farms has increased substantially as a result of building up. Hence, it may be very difficult for the next generation to buy them from their parents or from their joint heirs. I've made a plagiarization proposal that a minister be assigned to find ways that this adoption can go through without paying much of the cost simply to help make a living in the country. Maybe I wanted to hear from the highest. Minister on this important matter and whether there is any evidence in the financial programme to try to contribute to this agriculture initiative on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion of agriculture and agriculture, which, of course, is something that we need to see doubt on future losses and years. I wholeheartedly agree with that in a case. Senator. This is the way it is set up in a financial programme that is part of the livestock contracts, the rookie support. It's built up in the contract, and it was under investigation now 2018, and it's due to happen again next year, so there's a great will to promote innovation, and I just hope that this point will be specifically taken in that revision, although I don't have in front of me exactly what it will be. But I think it's important for you to do so. In many ways, there were steps during the last terms of earth's affairs that will contribute both to the collection of fewer soils in the few hands that will contribute to innovation or at least to a greater possibility of a replacement. But I also think that we need to look for our troops to be so that they are a soil for more opportunities that may turn on more than conventional agriculture simply to make it a powerful human life in the countryside. It also supports agriculture again and the fact that people are interested in making farms because it is the community to the countryside, which is fundamental to building settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u37	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is good to know that we're looking for a new recruit. How important that is! There are also circumstances that the State can find when it comes to replacements, and it is in time for their generations to be replaced. For example, when the value of the earth has become somewhat common today, it may be extremely burdensome to the recipient. Children, to accept money from the earth at market prices or to cover the public fees that prey on them. Undeniably, these obstacles encourage the sale of land to the highest bidder in the public market. That's why they're here. They're here for the big time. I think, for example. correspondent in Germany, at least in certain parts of Germany, this is the case with the need to pay no fees or taxes of the sale to some number of years, and not even until the end of the sale. There, the government is paying the price for this line of descent to go through. I think it's very important that we look at this because, as I said earlier, it has become the enormous value in the earth that young people cannot accept the farm. If parents sell it to a child or to their children under market prices, the tax returns to the tax as a donor. It's natural to put a stone in the street just for normal tribal exchanges to take place, and we're going to keep the country in an apartment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u38	V.E.G. President. I'll take into account what you're worried about. Senator of a recent agriculture operation. It's been like this for a long time. You're right. One senator says, "It's hard to deal with the costs of these replacements. " Of course, I am open to consider how to pay for innovation in other countries. There's something I think it's just very important to look into, even if there's no topic minister, but there were ideas that would always come from there, you would think. But I'd like to discuss in terms of a little more important than the fact that our companies are these soils for a variety of activities. I had a very interesting conversation last summer with young farmers in Huna Lake County, and there one farmer said to me: "Look, it doesn't really matter to me what kind of neighbor is on the other side of the valley or whether he's a computer scientist or is writing a crime story or what it is, just that there's light in the other towns. I think this is very good for what we have to look at in the urban changes we are making in the rural areas, that the rural areas need to be able to attract more people than just what we intend to do in agriculture, even though the pursuit of rural farming is also a basis for our countryside to flourish.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u39	A respectable president. Since I've been working on fishing for the rest of my life, I just want to bring it up. They put the code system on 1984. The objective of the system was to build fish stocks in Iceland. But the question that you immediately ask is, Is that not your goal anymore? Today, this has failed completely, and today's dinner system has brought us less resources in all the food supply at once in 1994, when seven species were placed in the quota. In 1999, we start throwing in more and more species, and the situation on all the species that have been put in the quota since 1999 is about 15 to 65% in the distributed markets today, based on what we were catching before the species were put in the marina. This success or failure tells us something about the system as such. Don't we need to find out what's going on? What's happening? Why won't this work? Where did we fail? Does the Minister have any solution? And then the other thing is that we see the fur business now; suddenly we didn't catch 24% of fur-cotans and there the captains are having interviews and say, "Well, we always knew this, we knew Winter had been wrong." In the story, we can see over and over again Hafro showing up for interviews and saying, "Ups, we miscalculate this. Oops, we calculated it wrong. Whoops, a cuckoo in the calculations. Over and over and over. Is it not necessary to examine the methodology in measuring the institutions and getting them to be taken out by an independent party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the seabed discussion here. The first thing I'd like to say is that at the time of the greeting, it was a reaction to overfishing. Then there was a reaction to the fact that we were not pursuing sustainable fishing or that we might be heading for it with some institutions. It was a bad position for certain species and so forth. But already it is. A senator mentioned what is wrong and what needs to be done, etc. it has the highest. Food Minister has just started to reexamine this system. She has presented a very detailed preparation for work on very extensive consultations on these matters in the political consultations. I trust the highest. Women's food ministers, best to guide them. Well, here's the question. A senator whether we need an independent party to extract our fish stocks. I now view Merition Research Institute as an independent member of state who has this role by hand. However, it is not always simple to provide advice based on the quick ecosystems of the sea. But we're hunting from counseling. We're trying to protect our institutions, to keep them self-sustained, and that's what we've been doing for years. I don't know what the situation would be if it wasn't for me. It's not good to say. But we have seen in many parts of the world that stocks have gone pretty bad when they have not been fished.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u41	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answers, but a little correction: when I'm talking about taking out, I mean methodology. The method used today is a pullr that was put on 1984 and has brought nothing to us, since the fact is that we caught much more for the whole saying system's days. But we were assured that if we were to go completely after Edro, we would hunt much more. It was a complete failure. Then there are other issues. For example, in 2016 hunting costs were taken, reminded me of, to the rent workers in Iceland, so this day's work is renting cod or exaggerating at $350,4400. The pound pays no hunting fees, not a cent. But the tenant will have to pay the price of hunting. What is this kind of reasonableness? Then we can talk about the beach fishing. I always view the beach fishing as the light in the dark in the eater system, the only freedom that humans have today, and there's not even been a means to guarantee that there's no warrant for that system. But I hope it comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u42	V.E.G. President. I now believe Merition Institute is working on the best methodology that can be used at any given time. The least of these is a Meritional Institute, no doubt trying to adapt its methodology to what knowledge, science, and research produce. It's my religion, anyway, and I hope it's true. In this context, I'd like to mention that we're in cooperation with the International Oceanographic Research Institute, which takes out advice from the Cape, so at least there's someone there who's paying attention to this. So I can't agree that the methodology hasn't returned. But we what? A senator can also just disagree on that, that's all right. I'm just gonna say, 'cause. A senator came in here on the beach fishing, that there is, of course, something that we sincerely agree that if a system needs to be developed, it was the left movement, which made it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u43	Madam President. Thank you very much. Social and workforce minister for being in position for the highest levels. A food minister and even though I would like to ask a food minister directly these questions, I must hope to the highest level. Social and employment minister may respond. During the past few years or decades, much has been said about resource costs and what cities are paying for access to the ocean's resource. One of the basic ideas involved in this cost is that it can depend on the cost of maintaining effective control and control around it. In reality, though, this money is not enough. In my first question today, I'd like to talk to you about the hunt. There is now a recent report on Kingdom Review including reports that it is not appropriate for the National Guard to buy oil on their watch ships in the Faeroes. This will lead to the failure of the National Guard to sail her patrols as much as she's been doing, so I ask. Minister: What effect will this have on the fishing department, or is there a plan to raise the cost of fishing to meet the higher costs of this monitoring?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for today's discussion. If I know these numbers correctly, it'll take about 6.8 billion on base today and there's about 7 billion fishing costs, so there's not much between them, they're at least at direct cost. But here's why. A senator may have more discussions about the Habitat and the General Reconnaissance Report on the National Guard, which is, in fact, under the Ministry of Justice. Fishing Room is then in the area of the Food Ministry. But I'm going to have a word with what. A senator in general is concerned about what makes one think in this matter of government Accounting, and there is oil over his head. It's energy exchange. There's something we need to look into. We need to take a big step now in the coming years when it comes to fishing because much of the emissions that Iceland is responsible for on international contracts comes from a fishing road. That is why it is of vital importance that we make the best use of our time now. There's been a lot of success in electrical vehicles, but the next big project is air, i.e. The planes, then this. But I hope to some extent that I answered why. A senator, but perhaps specifically, that the State Department of Justice falls on the State Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for not answering the question. It's always good to say, "That's what it's all about, but it's not. " You see, hunting watch also makes sure that others are not hunting within us jurisdiction and other things, and this has to do with the fishing road, and therefore they should be part of what the fishing watch is supposed to cover, as well as the Fishing Room. In that case, we have a lower income of a fishing fee than our expenses. The second question I wanted to discuss was ocean research, such as why. A senator did this before. You will now be faced with pressure from sailors, pressure from the European Union in the seaside, and even pressure from environmental groups to use science when it comes to ocean research. Methodology hasn't changed much since we put the saying system on and kind of everyone I've heard about it has mentioned that there's more to invest in these sciences, more to understand. Then again I ask the exact same question: Where are we going to get this money? Will we increase this science, and will we raise the cost of fishing? Then I just want to say that it was being built a new patrol, and I don't know that it had electricity on it, Freyja.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u46	V.E.G. President. No, I agree, unfortunately, it's not like Freyja. However, a new ocean - research ship is to be prepared so that it will be easy to attack future energy exchanges, so to speak. Wait a minute. A senator apologized that I started to turn only to him. I haven't had the Easter dinner he's already had. Of course, D.C. too, although this is the most important fishroom, so to speak. But I'd like to agree with that as long as possible. A senator identified the value and importance of science as the foundation of the counselor. This is not too complicated when we look at it in the big picture, even though these studies are very complex. And why are they complicated? It's complicated because marine ecosystems are complex, that's as simple as it is. I agree with what. A senator that it is of utmost importance that in all our advisers on how we use our useful institutions there is scientific counseling and that I do not know better than Cradre's methods are just the best that happen and are on a global scale. They are in a much foreign partnership, and I hope that, in general, we will see an increase in scientific investment, whether in sea or country, in order to prepare important decisions for the future of our ecosystems and thus provide the basis for economic stability, economic growth, and the well - being of our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you for having a word here with a social and employment minister, in disguise at the moment as Food Minister, and is well, for that person knows pretty well, I know. In this context, I would like to discuss the subject of 12, i.e. Agriculture. There are three goals that we have defined for the group of languages, which will take into account the future challenges and will enable us to improve. The group's vision is a healthy and sustainable food product and is aimed at reflecting three dimensions of sustainable development, i.e. Economic, environmental and social sustainability. It creates conditions for a broad range of agricultural production through sustainable agriculture and innovation, and is well presented in the subject field 12 in the way we want to approach it. Then there is a major project to reduce agricultural greenhouse gas emissions and increase binding. There is also a very important point that has been very important in the recent discussion, which is providing food security and safeguards the health of plants, animals, and food safety. It would be interesting to hear at the top. A social and workforce minister in the premium of Food Ministers on what he thinks of these three things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the agricultural discussion here. I think she could be quite more in this fine hall, I think that. A senator would agree with me. Hv. A senator introduces a few things that are extremely important. I want to enter your food security first. Farmers have been talking about food security and the share of agriculture for years, but I think we can be more concerned by government. Now, the natural issue is very high after this terrible Russian invasion in Ukraine because Ukraine is a very large agricultural country, one of the largest exporters in the world's wheat, and I'd like to mean that we have to look at the safety of Iceland especially from these factors and agree with it by force. Senator. Then I'd like to introduce only the link between climate and agriculture, which is one of the factors mentioned in the financial agenda. There are also major projects ahead of the fact that the contribution of agrienvironment in this greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland to our direct commitments is large, about 20%, similar to that of the marine road. These are projects that may focus primarily on manipulative manure, return to harrowing of livestock, and then other factors. There's an enormous and important project ahead that I may be able to discuss better afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for good and clear answers. I'm going to pick up the thread that ended up talking about climate and emissions. But before I do, I'd like to just pop into a conversation that was already here. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm had a word with the Minister for blood exchange. Just to emphasize this in this discussion, the basis for interracial exchange is always that there is a result of the article under which men are working. That's why we can have a natural line of descent. But I want this context, where I know it's the best. A minister is well at home when we reach land - healing, foresting, and the important factors these two institutions bring up to play in the future with regard to the protein binding and healing of the land, to ask if it is not right now and whether it is unwise for us to promote these institutions, to look closely at these two institutions together, i.e. The forest and land healing. Sadly, at times these fine strains have come up - they have not always agreed on what course to take in life, as they do. But I believe that if we were to take these institutions and unite them, we would have an enormously powerful institution that would take on these factors, and that is a natural important project that lies ahead of us in the binding of carbon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again before the discussion here today. I want to come in with this for the last time. A member of the council referred to the land - healing process and the forestry and the importance of the projects carried out by these institutions. I know that during the last term, cooperation between institutions grew considerably, and that's very positive. Not only were they on a joint assignment but they were given financial support into projects that were involved by both institutions. I'm sure there's a difference of opinion about whether these two institutions are to be united or to further their cooperation, and I'm going to leave them at the highest level. Food minister to take that ball. But in general, I just want to say that these institutions are both supposed to be involved in projects and then they provide these natural advice, but they also have to my opinion that they can provide advice for private workers or even be involved in projects that the private people want to do so that we can pursue land and forestry in the best way possible based on the science on which we want to build it. That, in fact, is the case. for which species we use in agriculture and forestry and how species use can affect our vulnerable environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for providing comments when we discuss the financial program. I deal with matters that have somehow happened, but maybe not quite exactly the way I set them up. For decades, it has been said that the fishing system and resource costs need to be reconciled and that the national ownership rights of a temporary agreement must be emphasized. In fact, even though the majority of the nation feel that the market price should be paid for the use of local fishermen, it is considered that an unchanged fishing system is a threat to democracy; it is a very large proportion of the nation's population, to say so. Group VG has been talking about resource regulations in the constitution, but measures have not been taken. Action during the last assembly did not result in guaranteeing the temporary rights to fish the resource. At the same time, making money, making money, and access to foreign loans are far more than in other sectors. Government ministers have talked about the cost of superintendentity, but there is no unity at the government level as to what is considered financial or that there is a particular price to be paid to it. We have been pointing this out, and most likely it is part of a council for the change in righteousness. Nor is there the question of how the currency referred to here should be carried out, whether it is through the fishing fee itself or through the tax, as the forwardee spoke recently. The leader of the Independence Party spoke for reasons that it was difficult to define the ultimate economy. I'd like to ask you how to do the highest. Food minister is in this discussion. There is little evidence of changes in financial programmes. What's your position? A secretary to hire in a fishing road? What is superintendent, as the advance party says? Can it not be defined contrary to what the Chairman of the Independence Party said? Is it not, then, more beneficial to take all of this together through hunting costs, since it is a price for use rather than tax use, rather than do it through the tax system, which does not clearly indicate that the purpose of the resource is being clearly established to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the debate here on resource issues and the seabed. We agree, I think, on the importance of protecting the laws of the management of fish that require the crops to be the share of the nation and to support it by means of an resource directive in a constitution. An experiment was made here during the last term, when Prime Minister proposed a bill for a change in the constitution, including inserting the resource protocol there, but it did not work out as we know. Of course, money or resources should then be brought to the nation when private citizens use its common resources. In this regard, we may be more concerned about the possibility of some change. I have to say, we're probably watching the biggest reexamination for a long time ahead of the fishing system. V.E.G. A food administrator has presented how it intends to approach this work in a government consultation, with a wide range of consultations. I have high hopes that there we will be able to approach the task of reaching out for these matters in agreement and in wide agreement with the number of people coming to this. Maybe it's never going to be a hundred percent. It's not usually that way. But I want to give the highest. A food secretary's chance to do this work, and then we'll expect to see the results of that work here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It was just fine, as far as it goes. Just keep going about it. We, in my category, have suggested that a normal price be paid for the use of the fish resources through the market fee. We want certain parts of the quatane placed on open market each year, which provide an Icelandic population considerably higher income than the current system. The advantage is, of course, that there are not some people in town who are deciding the price, it's just on the market. It has been the understanding of those who have spent most of their lives in Icelandic society that it is good to let the market handle certain items, but somehow it will never cross when we talk about the water. It was only entered here by the highest level. Minister that the fish in the sea are the stock of the nation. I would like to ask, " Is he sincerely that way, following the news on the seabed, on the fishing fees, reading the results of the many surveys made in the nationality, that the nation experience the experience so that the fish in the sea are the share of the nation when we are ten years in war that a normal price is paid for its use? ' I realize that men have set up yet another seafood committee, not for the first time. But what's the highest estimate? Minister and VG, the whole category, on whether there is no room for the development to pay much higher price today, whether it would be paid directly through the market, through auction, or only by keeping alive in this fishing tax system, which in many respects is skind. Of course, we support that the fishing fees, if you plan to have them, are higher than they are. But we need to get out of that system in order to put these things to a minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u54	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna start by saying that I have a lot of respect for that. A member of Parliament and the Parliament have taken a great deal of on the seabed for discussion here at the council. I think that's very positive and good. But, hey. A senator and his party want to go the market way that we don't agree in VG because we feel that this can lead to further compression. There we disagree. So I think that's exactly the most important thing. Food ministers are doing this, i.e. setting up the resources, as well as this broad review of how we approach the resources of the sea, into the overall work that is now being carried out. I hope that from that, you will find that something more comfortable could happen. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator believes that many people in the community feel that more charge needs to be introduced to the resource and not just this resource. There are other resources used by private partners today that share the nation's share. We can mention the tourist service. We've looked at electricity production, etc., it's not private but, above all, land induction; it's only recently paid for it. We could mention what many private people are interested in and are the wind. It's very good that we take this discussion here, but I guess I have to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u55	A respectable president. It has become clear that the national anchor is directed by one Ministry, and the ministry does not provide leadership. Selected Tiredness, dod, lack of vision - here is a document that is one of the major calculations. Up here in the pontta, the Ministers of the Progress Party and the Left Green have made beautiful comments on policy work and plans throughout the terms of the term. It seems total non-relationship within the government, because the only money in this program is to face nation growth, hardly inflation, and much less payoffs. When it comes to preventive action in terms of collective agreements and the assurances of key housing measures in this program, this is empty. There is a recession in contributions to housing in this government budget. Then we have the highest reaction. Advisory minister that the funding will come in the next financial programme. This is a plan for the terms we're reading here. V.E.G. The government has already published a government contract, the highest. The government has already negotiated the emphasis, according to the opinion of the people. These emphasises appear here. V.E.G. A financial minister here suggests in a classic way that we who make comments to this obvious discrepancies just want to spend all too much money, know just how to figure out the outpost. First, it's not about what the rest of us want. It's about the promises of the highest. Government printed with a bang last fall. This is about the presentation that the nation comes to their ears each week about the others and those assignments from the highest level. Government counsellors, the people the nation believes will rule the country, the people who are sending a clear message to the public that action is in the lake. It's an illusion. If there is no interest in these projects, housing care, modalities in the health system, improving the survival of people who support social security, then it needs to be said. There is no way to act like the welfare of an election and in news hours at an acceptable time, but to control the country with hard right politicians. Secondly, so I follow the political welfareist here, this misdirection at the conversation is that we in the United States, that the one standing here, just standing for delirium and just wanting expenses, getting a little tired. Clearly, the comments to this financial program point to the fact that if we continue in this way, under the greatest apathy. The secretary of finance is to shape the community and under the false welfare of his colleagues, and we will face serious financial problems. Where does this account end? There are vicious circles all around here that increase unsuspecting funds that need to be interrupted by political leadership, not by extrapolation. The first - paying price market is one - one - third of the state funds, half the rural population, but housing costs are the largest single pay force on the households, and this is a matter of lack of attitude and inaction in that category. The failure of the government, who apparently lost the trust of the local people, is complete, for no parent in the country dare wait a day longer to buy an apartment for their children. Everyone flocks to the market these days, much more than needed to buy at any one time. This behavior in a housing market is a sign of absolute distrust of the government's ability to take the lead in the largest individual economic and welfare issues in the country. No one believes in the highest. A government will take control of the market for people's homes. Price increases in housing are the largest single factor in in in inflation, have reduced income expenditures, and especially the size of young people. Instead of taking the lead, taking action, entering, and molding this important market, the government cuts down contributions to housing, contrary to the Supreme Declaration. Last month, the minister of wood, who said in this pontata: The Minister who stands here puts a high priority on the construction of social housing throughout the country and has put in proposals for financial support for the period 20233/42/2027 on a significant increase in financial resources to increase the building of apartments by means of public housing. It's not here. This is how we're gonna go into a bargain in the fall. The danger is that there will be a crisis of public pay, since the government does not understand the operation of a welfare state. She does not understand that such management is a matter of cooperation between a country, a farm partner, employees, and professional drivers, so that reforms will come from elsewhere rather than just from the pay layer. In contrast with the rest of the North countries, there is poverty. Such trades turn to a growth reform system that strengthens young people's housing and takes a low income, not a hundred billion dollars of taxes, to the highest income of the tithings the government has replaced the growth reform system. This type of operation in the welfare state reduces costs. What is going on in this programme will not end well with regard to financial expenses. That's the big misunderstanding on the big case. Secretary of finance. This is both poor welfare and poor financial management. At some point, we need to go to basic investors, get our systems out of a failed state, imbalance, just to keep costs back. Another example is the health system. The only thing to do in this schedule is to maintain real estate despite knowing that system changes and emphasis are needed to reduce problems. A respectable president. This financial program is an indication of lack of interest in the welfare of society. It's a total surrender. Investment goes down in the season. We are still waiting for a report by the Haraldur Líndalur on the state of rural society, a report that reveals how the government has taken a targeted cutaway course on the back side through the rural communities that take on basic services to the people of the country. There is no discussion of 9 billion years. Funding hole in the case of disabled people in this program. And where's the local status report? Is it to be hidden from the coming government elections? We have a government that will only update documents without political policy. There is no one here to lead us into the future, no leadership like we witness in these days when it is time to sell something important. There are no responsibilities. There's no leadership there. V.E.G. The secretary of finance points to an unsupervised organisation and sales manager who has not shown any interest in ensuring that this process will result in success. Such apathy, lack of leadership, has brought us to zero when it comes to confidence in the banking system. It is heavier than tears to witness this. V.E.G. Government and supreme. Ministers have failed an Icelandic country, sending messages to foreign investors who are applying for estates in underdeveloped countries that Iceland is a place where government property can be restored within a few days. This interest and lack of attitude, this lack of leadership, have serious consequences when it comes to trust in society, and in the same way, this lack of motivation and leadership will hold back the economic developments. Such progress is not in the explanatory process of a single Ministry, as shown here. The big question as a dog. A legal committee needs to discuss carefully: How will the Supreme Court do this? A government to finance all the promises and promises that have been made? Will they be backed up with promises? Above all, the government wants to stop the debt collection of the state's budget rapidly and no later than 2025. Is that the basic objective of this government? They're talking about collecting the cable for the next event, and we need to be able to afford all the improvements you need to make. Should the problem continue to arise for five years? What's the cost? Hv. The legal committee has to take this program and make major adjustments when we meet together after Easter. As a matter of fact, I'm concerned that the line is very specific from the Ministry of this magazine. You see, it is extremely difficult to deal with this lack of leadership.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u56	A respectable president. Once we're in this place, in a previous discussion on the Senate arrangement for financial planning for the next five years, I want to thank you for that discussion. It is like once meaningful and the way we have had in the past few years, to allow individual professional ministers to discuss their problems, to explain their intentions, to discuss goals and standards, in most cases, to benefit us, especially before. The legal committee to follow up in their work on a more precise proposal. A respectable president. I'd like to grab down here in the council error paper on page 24. 106 dealing with success data support planning and implementation. It says: ▪ As a result of a more successful strategy, the process of planning and implementing funding is further strengthened, as expenses for individual causes and lawsuits are placed in a further context with government policy. Then measures will be used to monitor the progress of action, taking into account the effects and benefits. Thus, methodology can further explain whether a budget is in the initial set, i.e. whether certain activities or projects have the desired results for society, not merely that operating and recovery are in accordance with financial management. I think it's important, as explained in the recent discussion, and I was referring to questions and answers or discussions with some individual Ministers, that we have eyes exactly on the indicators and goals presented in this financial program. The role of financial programs is to try to look ahead, to prepare forethought, to highlight what goals are from the government's hand, and how we will reach them. It's the key part of a financial program. As a result, a financial plan is anticipating some kind of budgeting in the fall. Here are a number of opinions and a number of suggestions and viewpoints worth paying attention. In time, all of us will agree on how we want to protect our resources and where we feel we can't do better. All of this takes into account when we consider these standards and the goals we set for ourselves. In my first talk about this financial program, a respectable president, I said that the frame was very swollen. Maybe I don't want to take it so deep in the year to say we're going to be a threat, but there's little to worry about. Therefore, this financial program, prepared by predictions prepared by the figures in it, is all the basis for the fact that things are going to take place in the predicted way and that these things will not be taken lightly. In previous years, we've been discussing financial programmes and have looked for a longer time, whether during a recession or a economic growth. It will always be that way, a respectable president, because I'm here referring to the standards and goals, that then the reality must be that we must respond. Of course, our horizons include agreements, other possible changes to the economy, outsides, e.g. War effort. All of this has its effect. Therefore, it is important that we not lose sight of the goals we set for ourselves and how we are going to measure success in that regard. It's also been very much discussed in this discussion whether this is a systematic calculation. Yes, it can be said, a respectable president, that this is in many ways a system plan in that we are expounding ourselves from one point to another to describe a certain development. However, it is the very role of the Senate and the role of members of the Parliament, the conference and the work of a financial committee, to be able to determine whether the system calculation is in accordance with political policy that is underlying and we are going to proceed as here. The role of senators, the role of the discussion, is crystal in that very place, as I say, to examine the standards and goals but to have strong opinions about whether the goals are reached in relation to the available plans. A respectable president. This may be the very nature of my technical approach to financial projects, but it has been shown in recent years that the role of financial programs as teeth in a dental wheel has proved its value, but it is not that external trauma, external change, will not, from the time we agree to a financial program and until we discuss budgets, can have an effect. It's always been, and that's how it stays. The main message of a financial program we're discussing here is that I can frame into this phrase: Here's a financial program designed to support economic growth, which is intended to support growth in national production because it is enormously important to us. That is how we can strengthen our welfare system. That is how we can continue our investment. That's how we can create a good society and a good human life here. The goal of stopping debt collection is realistic. How important it is that we reach that goal! So, Mr President, at the end of this earlier discussion on the Senate arrangement for financial planning, I say: The project is well handled by a financial committee, to deal with, to study, then to have an opinion on how we are applying the scales and goals, and then to attend a second discussion of this financial strategy. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u57	A respectable president. We are here on a final discussion on the financial program of 2023●2027, a great book, 500 pp. About what? I think it's better to discuss what's not in the government budget, what's missing. This financial program does not indicate any change, either. Nothing will be done to counteract 6.7% of inflation. The only thing the government was kissing off is 1% more than 3.6% she had at the last year, a 4.6% increase to social security officials in 7% of inflation. It also shows that nothing is done to correct the rate of disability in the financial programme. The fact is on the table. The development of the skin is so great that a person should have a hundred thousand dollars. more than a month after taxes than they have today. This may well lead them to poverty. But it's not being corrected here. From 2023●2027, the increase in the government's social security service is 2.5% to 7% inflation, much of that generosity. She thinks she's going to get the inflation, but it's fantasy, the inflation's on the fly. The fact is, there are a lot of people who don't have food, don't have drugs, not for high rent, which has gone up in recent months and years. Nothing will be done to process a waiting list in the medical system. Nothing will be done to solve the human crisis of the medical system, the emergency care staff to give up, ten to ten, ten to disappear. The hospital cannot cope. It is surprising that, at the same time, there is nothing in this financial program on how to solve the problem that the elderly are being held hostage at a land hospital, in the most expensive possible option. Is solution for the next four or five years a financial problem? No. Nor is it about how the government will see to it that the nation receives a fair amount of money from the sea resources. This financial strategy is stable, without solutions. The only people who can be happy with this financial program are the government groups and those who are good. Those who have it bad, at the command of the current government, will not maintain their interest in money or power, it will get worse for the next four to five years. One minister after another has warned that in his case, changes may be made in the years that may lead to the development of potential projects that the government groups gave to the nation in the process of election. Why are these potential projects not immediately included in the plan? In that case, you will especially ask about the potential challenges to meet those who are the poorest. It's so few, it says the highest. Secretary of finance often, but this should not cost much. It is also found that the removal of children's poverty costs nothing, each dollar in it returns ten times as much. Then you ask: " Why is this not the subject of psalms? ' I remind you that this strategy was laid up in the fall, so funding is needed if you are going on a project such as review of social security, land management problems, national stadium construction, or measures to prevent inflation. It is clear that it is not part of this budget to correct a clean and clear violation of the Constitution, clean and complete violation of human rights. The last government corrected older citizens' failures but warned that they would get only 90% of the minimum, which, of course, is a clear violation of government equality, complete discrimination. That, too, did not work. The government didn't think that's enough. A crown back in return, total geniuses. A crown in front of a cent who had been promised many times to resign. The promise has stopped at 65 pennies across from a crown, and it could not even offer this group 65 bucks in opposite a dollar. No, she turned into discrimination. And what is the result, the Supreme Court judgment? The Supreme Court sentenced her to pay a poor farm, a six - year battle lost at all points of judgment. What message is this to them that is the worst message in the community? A clear message. You can't get anything until you're full of fists, it's going to court, every sentence. It sucks to know that under that judgment, it was not poor people, but people living in very poor places. It is in our rich society that we should allow ourselves to have things so that people can be nagged in an effort to force them to live on something that is absolutely hopeless to survive in Iceland. The Supreme Court hit the fingers of the government. Now we must see: Will the government see to it that this group is corrected? I'm sorry, everyone can't be corrected. Some did not survive waiting for correction and are miserable to know that we are in such a society. This is one of the things I've fought desperately for, trying to get this right. I fought for it in my time that the government did not establish laws on the pooring of the elderly, nor did it grossly discriminate against the people. But it wasn't enough. It wasn't at their table. We have a group of sick and elderly. We have a waiting list, we're sailing into a health emergency, in the welfare system. But, unfortunately, this book tells us that the problem is not to be addressed, not for those who really need it. This is not a financial plan for the worst set in Iceland. No, the worst in Iceland, in the commandment of this government, shall harden the foundation for the next four or five years. They should realize that they are not getting decent progress for the next few years. If they reason wrong, then the only way to go is by court, to go all the way into the district, to the court of the land, or else they get nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u58	A respectable president. When it became clear that our new season of crown virus would be with us for a long time, we were involved in the most extensive economic action in Iceland's history. The measures taken are worse than those that were attacked after a crash and based primarily on the ideologies of using government funds to protect the prosperity based on the first part of the last terms. Although the national vessel has taken a break in the turmoil of everyone's eyes, it was well equipped and has already been sailed to port, we can see that the results are unambiguous. The result is an increase in the level of money that still grows and the financial situation in Iceland. In this case, unemployment is low and all the likelihood that this trend will continue with improved job prospects and increase in the arrival of tourists, but the number of measures due to the epidemic was particularly in terms of maintaining employment and management during the period and in the working days. In 2013 a biography study showed that more than 13% of the country's population are having a very difficult time making ends meet. This group is now about 4% of Icelanders, and thankfully, it is a positive development. Now that all averages point to one way, it is still important to keep a tight grip on the remaining group, a group that has had the least benefit and wrestled, e.g. for high housing costs. During recent terms, we returned to the three - step tax system and reduced tax burden for economic sensitive groups. At the end of the year, the value of new production criteria was taken in the calculation of personal discounts and step marks. We are under obligation to use the equal role of the tax system. This is the case, and we can reduce the taxes of those who earn less money. Most important, I believe that we still increase flexibility and resistance to economic fluctuations. On Tuesday, in my speech, I made a big leap about innovation. We have been fortunate in our country to have a powerful job life, and in recent decades, special innovation companies have developed. Thus, we have been able to draw ever closer to one sector in increasing the growth of employment support. This morning, the Allied Advisory Board of Professionals had a very pleasant visit to Góska, where we received a presentation for a wonderful and varied innovation. In this context, there are more than 10% of the exports from the software industry, which is a 50% increase from 2018 and grew technical and mental industry by 20% between 2018 and 2021. In spite of the pandemic, it is especially enjoyable to see the growth of employment, for all of us know that a powerful job life is the foundation of growing well - being. Tourism is the work area where most jobs were lost and is expected in a financial programme to reduce the cost of the topic range by 310 million. K. the duration of the plan. However, caution must be exercised, and balance is maintained when temporary support is reduced and the suspension of the host tax, e.g. The year is 223 C.E. In 2018 alone, more than 2 million tourists arrived, each one seems to be on hand. The most important point, though, is that tourism across the country will become a sustainable sector in terms of nature and society. In particular, infrastructure has to be looked forward to, and the number of road vehicles has increased dramatically since the growth of the tourism service. We need to continue to build high - speed bases across the country, to support energy exchanges in car rents, and to help hire tourists. Likewise, for nature, we must keep our arms around many tourist attractions. That's what we do with an active stress control. In addition, an all - year development of snow, as well as an important means of transportation, has to be assured that there is a better outcome for all over the year. Especially is this true of our most fragile species, but tourists prefer to visit those places. In many parts of the country, urban areas can be seen coming back to life by means of tourism, where they can provide a great supply for communities. But in the scattered areas of summer, tourism is largely a work ethic. Therefore, it is important to ensure full - time employment, location jobs, especially public jobs, throughout the country. In this context, I would especially like to assume that we have built up the tremendous fine service of the county people in many parts of the country that we need to care for and keep the promises made when the work was separated from the work of the police, i.e. to increase the number of tasks There are also parishes to use technical solutions in various sectors, the lettering, to a greater extent in the country. Homes, of course, are in the mail numbers around the country, and nothing stands in the way of home work, whether it is public work or not. A respectable president. All I want to do is change the rhythms and the welfare issues. During the last term, mental - health issues were finally taken seriously. Before 2025 C.E., there is a lasting increase in mental - health issues of over 1,650 million. K. and we are discussing a group that has been funded for decades. As many of us know, excessive use of antipsychotics has increased, especially among young people, and has been called upon to react specifically in recent years. This increased donations will provide continued mental - health services at national health centres and will support them. Indeed, good spiritual health is part of the prosperity we want to enjoy and the satisfaction that comes from working to accomplish our language class. In 2018, changes in the cost of disability were started and elderly due to health care. Necessary dental and later other health insurance insurance providers, e.g. visits of patients in clinics made it during the last term. Remuneration will continue to be reduced, with an increase of over 1,600 million paid for health care. K. which corresponds to an increase of 9% in the absolute value. However, there is a lot to consider when it comes to strengthening the health system, especially increasing the number of options for older people from house to house, as indicated in Mckinseyr's report, we are defending only about 0.1% of GDP. Hospitals will be considerably relieved, but as noted, the biggest challenge facing most countries is the health sector, and it is important that the work environment is attractive and not excessively pressured, especially after the huge losses involved, and is, unfortunately, still, Covid-19. There will also be a review of the bioenergy system, which is both timely and a large project, such as the highest level. The social and workforce minister came in here today. I would suggest that the largest increase in the rate of the financial budget is social, housing and insurance, a total of over 26 billion this year, and by 2027, which corresponds to an increase of less than 10% in real value. I like it, and it's in the spirit of the social justice I want to see from the government. A respectable president. After wrestling with Covid-19 and all the effects it has had, we observe the terrible invasion by the Russian government in Ukraine, its influence on the population, and its impact on the world economy. This is truly a major concern, causing the once again uncertainty about economic developments in many parts of the world and especially in such a small economy as ours. The effect is likely to be much greater than we realize right now, but we will react to the impact of the Icelandic economy, as it was done in Covid-19, and it will be necessary. The project ahead is to restore financial stability in order to support economic stability and defend the success achieved. The way the government operates is the light of growth and prosperity. With this financial program, we are ensuring continued prosperity by defending the success of the newborn terms in the funding of the welfare systems and supporting the wide variety of economic foundations, especially those that are intelligent, as I said earlier. We have faith in Icelandic society and, by the actions involved in this budget, the state's situation will be strengthened, especially by increasing interest in the economy, which will enable us to reduce debt collections. The objective is to support the future prosperity for the people of the land. A respectable president. I want to finally thank you for this first discussion. We are still on the budget to review the details of the various parties, to listen to their viewpoints, and to evaluate the future plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u59	A respectable president. We have been discussing financial programs for the past 2023,2027, where we will look to the future. The problem, however, is that economic growth in this country is more swinging than in most of our neighboring countries. The problem is, too, that the government's economic forecasts are very dangerous. And where are we now? Not much has to be done to make public spending a lot of money. At the same time, prices are rising, and inflation is bent on getting out of control. An independent problem is the continuation of the exchange and the debt collection of the state's funds. The government intends to continue its terms, and the problem will be transferred to the next one. The rising cost alone is estimated to be 80 billion each year and 116 billion when we count Pension bonds. Increased inflation and uncertainty around collective agreements do not warrant special optimism. Inflation means an increased pay load for the households and the more difficult business environment of an enterprise. The fact that one of the first cases of the government was proclaiming the proselytizing measures, which included, in fact, took place. The entire project, and then increasing the recruitment rate of 2 billion, served as a reminder that governments have slept on guard and have failed to recognize the seriousness of the situation. In turn, this financial program confirms the suspicion. We also need to look at specific aspects of our plan. Where is the need most important, and how is the government setting priorities? There is a great need for a global nursing home to be built and no financial support has been made for future requests. In this regard, there is a nursing home in the Cape and Smokey Town, which was scheduled for 2019 and was to be completed this year, but projects have not even started. So we are in considerable debt regarding the construction of nursing homes, so it is surprising that the future wishes in the budget have not been responded, such as in the construction of two nursing homes in the capital area of 250 spaces. These wishes were thrown off the table and could not be entered into a financial program, and for another, no means of investment is expected to be in the nursing home after 2024, which is unacceptable to the available need. Hospitals and the pressures they face are constantly being talked about. The lack of nurses prevents the graduates from being assigned to other suitable services. There seems to be no understanding of this within the governments. Then, a respectable president, would not have to comment on the position of health care that is defined as the first place in medical care. Of course, it is not open to people that they have to wait there for weeks. The budget of the year 2022 included the initiative of a government opposition to 250 million in the subsidies of psychological services. This has not yet been accomplished, and it is not to say that this is being expected in a financial programme, despite the fact that psychological services are part of the insurance system has been approved at the General Assembly 2020. This is especially important in a pandemic situation when a post-study study shows a negative impact on his mental health. What will be the cost in the future if nothing is done, if spiritual health is not placed on the same ledge, and physical and psychological services are made available to all regardless of the economy? At the same time, a government fund is willing to pay 700 million in fees for selling sales in Iceland Bank, 700 million in fee for a severely criticized sales trade, rightfully for being untranslucent and reducing the confidence and trust of people in the sale of state estates, but 250 million could not be placed in the necessary psychological services. What kind of priorities is this? When the projection was government and the Ministry of Social Affairs was run, it was agreed to increase public housing support in the form of structure. The decision was an important step in review on terms of collective labour market agreements and in increasing the security of less household resources. This was then extended during the last terms, allowing housing to include more and more material people, and most of them were put to the lead in priorities. The cumulative need for social housing is considerable. Many people are on hold for housing, and they do not provide the end of it. That is why there is a serious contribution to cutting down foundation production for tens of billions of people's income supply. The procedure is incomprehensible, since extra housing is necessary for this group. This is the way that has helped on the forward side, and this will not be appreciated by the labor movement, nor will it be for schoolmates like Emess the House Fund or the Bible Building Association. A team that has been called the public reserves of products and specific means of making arrangements is of interest. This team included 21.6 billion in 2020, and the budget for 2022 accounts for a total of 35.3 billion. In a new financial program, however, this team is greatly increased and will end to 67.2 billion in 2027. You must ask yourself, " Why do ministers have so much money available without consulting the council? ' What determines that? It can be understood that some money is being planned on unaccounted expenses, but when we see what our investment debt is, how much it is, and how high the interest cost of a Kingdom fund is, we must ask: Is this a proper priorities at this point? Is it not a matter of taking full advantage of legal provisions that they can so care for themselves without consulting both the General and the Fundal Committee? The financial programme discusses the upreaching actions of the public according to possible scenarios. In the bill itself, the amount of action taken is expected to be 9 billion per year, from 2024•2027 or 36 billion in total in the period. But there is no way for it to be implemented. A distorted view of an abnormal scene suggests that such measures do not need to be taken. The Black Vision, however, shows a cutoff of 42 billion a year, or a total of 168 billion cuts during the period, and if the result is anything like a pessimistic forecast, then there is no good. We see that the forecast has already been shaken, and the inflation is changing this situation, so this optimistic forecast will not be realized at all. A respectable president. I'd like to mention only the rural communities, which, of course, are the only changes in all of this, and these two administrations really need to cooperate in order to serve the interests of all the people of the country. Therefore, it is not good for rural society to be unsure of financial contributions from year to year, depending on the state's status. This needs to be changed by changing the financial resources of our rural society. A respectable president. This financial program is not designed to build public trust in the public. We can see a super-visual basis for a time of realism. We're looking at a heavy-sweat operation. We see a continuing sense of debt, and we see priorities that do not go anywhere. If the government doesn't, who's gonna care for the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u60	A respectable president. It has been very interesting to listen to the discussion that has taken place here during the past few days on budgetary programme 2233/42/2027 and to be clearly working on the financial committee and to take to heart the committee and review. It is important for us to listen to the voices presented here in the conference hall regarding this strategy. There are, as I say, many interesting points that have appeared here that need to be considered, and that will be done in the next few weeks of the Committee. But the prospects are good. Although the economic situation in Ukraine is a bit of a factor in the world's economic situation, it is not yet clear how much it will affect us here at home, yet it is clear to all of us that it will be a significant effect, exactly how much it will be, and how long it will last. But it's perfectly certain that this will bite us to some extent here at home, and it's already begun. The economy is on the rise after a quick turnaround last year, and the economic fluctuation index is now over the average, which is extremely positive. In the global economy, economic growth is similar to last projection, but unemployment is even more rapid as inflation increases, which is the big red light we need to react to and try to stop. It is a pleasure, however, that the unemployment rate is falling, and with the fact that tourism is going to be a big part of the summer, we may face another problem that is humanizing the work that will result in the growth of tourists. But inflation is the project and project of all of us present at the council, and we need to find ways together in trying to cope with the increase that has occurred and to reverse that trend. Some of the main factors of the inflation may now be considered temporary. In order to prevent this inflation from becoming a factor, the post calls for a disciplined economy. Even so, homes are stronger and never fewer have found it very difficult to make ends meet than now, and such is a source of great joy. Still, they need to keep on the watch and make sure that such developments continue. What I'm saying is we need to secure the stability of our homes. That's what it's all about, the stability of homes and businesses in the country. Higher energy and oil prices have increased household expenses by 1.2% in the last 12 months. International comparisons are low, but evolution is severe. Similarly, it is clear that the struggle in Ukraine over a long period of time may be even greater, and it is urgent that we consider for a longer time how we will react to the current situation and then need to look at energy exchanges and domestic energy sources, electricity. The high prices of housing and the decrease in apartments on sales pages primarily reflect a decrease in interest until last year, and a combined financial status of the households. Nevertheless, the situation in the housing market is one of our biggest challenges in the coming years. There has been a large discussion here at a meeting on the housing issues and housing facilities, and it will continue to be discussed. It is quite clear, and I think that all people in this room would agree on that, although they may not agree on the routes and implementations, this project will have to be done by negotiations and conversation between rural society and the state, and it is not possible for either party to point to the other person and blame him. Simply put, it is necessary to get together and establish plans, such as the Minister of wood has announced in order to master the current housing situation. I believe that this plan will appear sooner than later, and I have strong faith in the work offered there. During the epidemic, there was considerable production of labor. The number of jobs in travel services has decreased but has increased in the areas largely paid by the government. A number of people are now more than 2019 and can be expected to find it difficult to start a job in a travel service when it takes place, as I came in earlier. The number of people who need to come in here, a prospective foreign labor force, to fill up with that hole and the need to create on the market that these people need to live somewhere. Clearly, then, we need to look closely at this future situation in the housing market and the situation there. It doesn't matter where we come down. We always end up there. Economic growth impacts are growing more slowly and the growth rate in which the economy is looking according to the national economy is now 1 percent lower than the average growth in the last two decades before the epidemic. Economic growth at the end of the period is expected to be 2.4% but 3.6 in 2019. The average growth capacity of the national population at fixed prices is about 4%. It is clear, therefore, that the economy is rapidly looking at balance, but according to national interest estimates, economic growth is quickly looking for long - term averages and production will be equal to the population's production capacity in the next year. Economic stability needs to be supported, but after much support and support in the economy in 2020, public funds will work against expansion and will contribute to economic stability over the financial period. A respectable president. The strategy presented here lays the basis for the restoration of the Icelandic economy and the economy following economic hardships by Covid-19, but it is clear that the uncertainty that exists in the world today can and will have unexpected consequences for us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u61	President. In a financial program, the government puts forward its policy until the next five years. I mean, mostly here, 20. a law on public financial matters that says: ▪ Each minister sets out a policy for the topic fields and classes to which he is responsible to be no less than five years old. This is explained in a report. First, policy measures are aimed at ensuring that what goals and priorities are set in each subject and that there are clear priorities. Second, policy measures include formal analyses and assessments of the status of services and activities of the individual topic areas. Third, policy selection involves a decision on which way to follow to achieve set goals. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their differing factors. Fourth, policy measures include the final design, defined and priorities of the analyses work done. Targets should be obvious, objective, and measurable. Five: Projects and actions, including those listed above, must be defined. adjustments to set goals are required. A sixth must be provided with a strategy for the implementation of the individual aspects of policy development, to ensure compliance, to clarify priorities, and to define deadlines and a planned cost. First, I will spend some two minutes of my talk in pointing this out once more because there is a continuing financial program that is not in accordance with these instructions. I had expectations before this financial program was published. I thought it would be at least Try to bring up some plan to meet the major challenges in Icelandic society. It's just been electioned and stuff. If there is a time and place for the government to demonstrate its policy in a complete way, then there is a financial program that shows priorities for the next five years. Where is e.g. The plan for housing? None. Where's the health plan? Unaltered condition. How will the government achieve its goals in climate? No explanation, just cuts. Let's start with the problem of the housing market. According to the newly updated analysis of Homic and Mobilization Institutes, approximately 1,000 more apartments in a building. If the State took the decision to participate in all of them with stocks, the cost of the State would be at some 7 billion dollars. or so. The contribution to this topic is now 12 billion lower than 2016, and much less. Here it would be simple, obvious, and self - righteous policy of the government to simply say: We will be entering the building of a third of the missing apartments, providing a total of 2 billion dollars. every year. But what is government policy? We'll have to wait until the fall, and then we'll have a conquistador proposal. It is not as if this is a new problem that fell into our arms just before a financial plan was made. Homing issues, e.g. ... inthedutyofthePresident for the campaign. It blames financial institutions for the problem and tells them that sharing loans work. It was said in the council's work yesterday that progress always has good ideas in housing, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is not the first time that advance efforts find solutions and go new ways, and they have yielded very good results for the community of the whole community, to be sure. paritaprevir Merddis Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir of the council yesterday. Does anyone remember the correction or 90 percent of the loans, and how they went? It's a favorite recipe. If you can't read about it in the General Report on the Substitution Fund, so I'll witness to the report, by permission of the President: ▪ This trip ended badly and cost them dearly. Very simple. Here we are not just talking about tens of billions of dollars, but we beat the loss to 200 billion. Again, we have a housing problem, and progress is required to use solutions. I just can't wait. No, literally, I just can't wait. I don't want to wait. This is not to be held off because there is a government program here. Tempterism is just shocking. Remember when the code started e.g.? Instead of offering a policy out of the code, the government held back about six months of policy. When she finally arrived, she was neither a bird nor a fish. But it's not complicated. All you have to do is build an apartment. We know even. How many apartments you have to build. All the government has to say is how much of that apartment it's going to have to say, for example. to support development. It's as simple as it is at this point. It's not supposed to be that complicated. It should be easy to say: 300 more, we're involved. That would be the minimum. Almost right to say 500 or something like that. All day long we could talk about how bad it is not being able to bring a plan into housing, but I'm sorry, I have to talk about the lack of more plans in large languages. Take medical care, e.g. Next time. There's been a problem in the health system for years, much longer than I've been at a council. Year after year, representatives of the health - care system have come up with a financial committee explaining the uncalculated cost of collective contracts, human stress, a lack of resources for the graduates of patients who need care, a so-called efflux problem, a nurse's collective agreements, and so on. We have received a review by review, a report by which all say the same thing. The latest report repeats what has been said to the council year after year. Without action, it will cost us at least Ten billion extra every year in over a decade. What are these appropriate measures? To add long-term care professionals to appropriate measures. In other words, more home service and more care. Fix the flow problem. In order to do so, you need to build more medical facilities and more staff. Although there are more challenges, this is so key that everything else pales in comparison. And what will the government do? Yeah, you can't get a warrant in 2024 to build a nursing home. That means you don't need as much staff in a nursing home that's not supposed to be built, blessed perhaps because I have no idea how to find staff anyway, i.e. I have a lot of ideas about that, but the government may not have any, at least not in the plan. For example, for the first time, it may be possible to stop sending nurses into a court date. I mean, the government doesn't have a ruffle about how, but a financial plan is about it, with the permission of a president: The work programme and the work environment require that health institutions be sought after the workplace and cared for in accordance with the patient's services and quality and safety standards. Therefore, measuring parameters related to husband and stress should be monitored affecting the safety profile of patients. Here, the problem is enormously clear, with the permission of a president: Since there has been a lack of nurses and medical staff, as well as a significant proportion of these classes will start taking a pension in recent years. In order to meet this challenge, the health minister suggested 18 suggestions on how to attract nurses. One of the measures seems to have been to negotiate with nurses and send their pay requirements to a court. It's a very attractive operation to promote design, isn't it? Some may say: But the medical budget is growing dramatically. Yes, but if an investment comes from the New Land Hospital, the increase is about 2% a year, which is certainly more than 1% average increase, but the reason is extremely simple: There are more patients. Demographics changes. You could talk about years of failure in this group all day, but I still have another big group. It's the climate. That is the great problem for the future. I'd like to start with the foundation because no matter what the reasons for climate change are, if they really happen or not, the solution to problems is good, including the problem. Even if it wasn't a problem, because the solution is a sustainable society that is a good idea that always pays and much more than that. No matter what. So no matter how people feel about the problem, the solution is something we should all want, whatever the reason. The government's policy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% in 2030 compared to 1990. It's part of the budget. By 1990, however, emissions have increased by 28% in 2019. In fact, about 65% of the 2019,2030 emissions need to be summed up in just over a decade. What is remarkable is that this 55% emissions ratio is not in government regulations. However, there are some standards that deal with mobilisation. First, on the topic fields of innovation, in the utilisation of technology for climate change. This should reduce emissions from about 3,000 kg of carbon dioxide to less than 2,700 kg. It is only a 10% contraction of the total three years before 65% of the contractions have been reached. Transport emissions should then decrease from 1,000 kilotons to less than 700. It has a 33% contraction, half the amount that has been reached three years later. In the transport sector, the average disposal of cars is reduced by 36% per mile. About half of what has to be picked up three years later. In agriculture, it is 5% in 2027. In the fishing field, there is 30% reduction in 2015, etc. And it's based on 2005 rather than on 1990, which is absolutely crazy because the financial program says, by permission of presidents: The EU aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% in 2030 compared to emissions in 1990. It's on page 8. 299. On the other hand, by permission of the president, on page 18. 321: The European Environment Agency has also set an independent national target of 55% reduction in emissions falling outside the ETS system by 2030, compared to 2005.◯ Good citizens of the country. It sums up government policy. They don't know what they want. Congratulations. Do not choose the forward or the VG or the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u62	A respectable president. It's been a discussion that's done a little new and has been very successful, as I think. There have been spokesmen, followed by all the ministers, and answered for their own divisions. What I'm stressing in general in this discussion is that we will be able to take this pooled discussion, which looks forward to the objective of the law on public finances to promote economic management and planning. When these new laws on government finance were brought up, it was discussed and recognized that the Council needed to build up the ability to carry out long - term plans. We have been building up experience, knowledge, and ability to do this better. I notice it here today, and I also noticed yesterday, that there's a considerable attention to the plan. I have even. There is a general review of the development plans, the implementation of the state, and it is discussed here on pages 89 and 90 of this program that we have a comprehensive review of the process of processing and have made a clear account of it, especially when we have needed to increase the level of investment, that the target time is slightly unrealistic for us, infected with the fact that money is locked, earmarked individual tasks that are not yet to be carried out. We need to work this out. In the beginning, I stressed that this financial program was preaching much brighter times. We would have a fairly bright prospect here, a collection of debts would be stopped, an economic prowess would be found in the credit cards for remuneration, fine economic growth, and growth in the land in the years to come. This document, this financial plan, is an important entry into the position we are looking up at right now, which is inflation and worries about it. We are here preaching a change of time in the financial affairs, for we are not in the same way stimulating the economy as we were doing until this time of the pandemic. We are thus laying down the years with the Federal Bank, which in the meantime has increased growth and points out that the source of production has disappeared from the economy. To meet this, we are reducing the actual increase in Kingdom spending over the years, and as a percentage of land production goes on to decline during the programme period, which is still an actual growth of about 1%. He is the greatest in the medical system, where at the same time there is no restraint, but he is less elsewhere, and historical narrative is very limited. Thus, there is still space, and there is also room in individual language areas when a large task is completed. Of course, this applies to the investment problem, but it also applies in other cases. Later this year, there will be a bridal cycle in the general labour market, which will make decisions that will have a major impact on this whole picture. In this document, we draw it out to see how the growth rate of the households has been developing over time. On page 43, you can see how at different times the income tenants have been involved, as the period is further advanced from 2009-2020, the weight of interest costs has fallen among all income groups as a sharer. This is because we have had a rising salary, but we have also had less interest. This is desirable and something we want to protect and keep building. To this, a respectable president, I just want to thank you for the objective discussion, which I'm not going to start doing here or answer all comments for. I'm just glad that the debate on how to adjust the role of a financial programme is improving, and even though there's a difference of opinion here on how successful it was in the strategy, the debate is still developing and we're getting better at this strategy. We are to recognize some weaknesses in the planned process, as is being done in part here. But now I feel that I see the big picture, which is that it is early in Icelandic economics.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u63	Madam President. That was two days ago. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came up here in a talk chair and painted it to the highest level. We'd need a minister of wood to report to the General. This is a record of 61 st. Congress that says the President can authorize counsellors to do this. The authority or responsibility is in the highest order. Minister. He has discussed this matter that we all know who is in the media, not with the General Assembly. So I wanted to ask if any such request was received by the president from the highest level. A minister in view of the fact that several members of the council have now requested that this needed conversation take place here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u64	Madam President. On one occasion, the rise of the Generals was something the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir was expected to do, a fall from fashion in the government. I find it shocking, though, if the head of wooder considers an apology for racist protests to take place in the media, and that puts the case to the General Assembly to an end. Here we are talking about the respect of the Generals. We're talking about the possible violation of the Minister's Code of Congress and Ministers and possible legal violations. That is why it is only natural for the minister to come into this room and discuss his colleagues in this open language, which the public can afford to observe, discuss the matter here, and not just interviews on their own ground in town. I understood that the Minister's hearing on TV's evening news earlier that he saw the initiative to come in some way from the World Council but 61th above. Since Congress looks the other way, I wondered if there is any problem with our communication there between the minister and the council, and if we somehow have to step in between the president and the minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u65	Before proceeding further, the president will want to remind you that the session for the President's conference board is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u66	President. I'm having a little trouble with this case because it's actually a rumor about what was said exactly. Now I'm not going to question anyone's feelings, but they've already apologized, and I don't know exactly why, because it's the highest. The secretary of the wood refuses to repeat that statement. Then you do not know what to forgive or excuse. At any rate, I'd count, based on your apology, that there's a reason to apologize for something, but I don't know how to take the apology. We are once talking about a minister, and we're talking about equal treatment according to race and a very serious law set by this government. I thought it normal that a minister would simply come here, explain his case, and what exactly he was apologizing to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u67	Madam President. I'm going to agree with what men are doing here, from earlier discussions this week on to the highest. The minister of the wood came here, the chairman of the forward party, and will be more aware of this matter. Like what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came into our place, or I think it's quite likely, being talking about the violation of ethical principles, senators and Ministers, and not unlikely that these too are violations of universal law. The reason why it is best to do so in this council hall is that we all agree that this is a comment that should not be passed. We also agree that there is a clear message to be made from both the legislatator and the executive authority that this will not pass away, and there is no better place to do so than the II Parliament's symposium. So I find this location and this place to be chosen for. In addition, the situation remains to the highest. The minister claims to have said something he does not explain what is but a assistant to the Supreme Court. A minister claims that there has been no particular statement and has even repeated in the media, so we need to understand this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u68	Madam President. I'm worried. When it comes to an obvious violation of the code of ethics that we have set for ourselves and the members of Congress agree to sign, I am concerned about the lack of advice from the Generals. We must respect them, and we must also have a way of dealing with them. Councilmen, commander. Ministers, don't respect or directly violate the code. There are examples that the president himself applied himself after a so - called monastery case developed during the last term. It can be done. We need to get this straight with the president and the Presidency Committee how she intends to use it, because it really is in the hands of a president to see to it that a person pursues the code of ethics. It is the social control we have here, and we need to be able to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u69	Madam President. I would like to agree with what has been said here on the basis of Article 61. Act of the General Assembly. There seems to be some misunderstanding there. The law seems to assume that the initiative will come from the highest level. Minister, chief. A minister has called for a formal application of the council. I don't know how much more formal we can make, but we've already done. We've wanted to get to the top. Minister, come here and discuss this with us. We likewise wished for the highest power. A minister would be here to sit under unprepared queries, but it was not accepted. It's in fashion right now, I think, with some PR believer in this society, to advise people who have become aware of the less immoral ways to keep their mouth shut and wait for things to happen. I don't think it's the right advice for the best. Minister in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u70	A respectable president. I don't think this is such a sad situation, but I don't think it would be disrespectful to people of foreign origin, and all of it really would be done in any way here at the Assembly Hall. I'd like to remind you, like a dog. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir the time the senators became aware of an irresistible comment on Klausfri, a few years ago the President of the Generalis was moved to read a statement and then read the Senate chest. V.E.G. A minister was in a Senate hall yesterday, and he had a word with us about a financial strategy, and I have to admit that I thought it was half normal to have a word with a minister while this matter has not been settled in this room. If the initiative doesn't come from the minister, I ask the President to take the initiative to get a minister to come up here and read a statement and that there is a discussion here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I also encourage and beg the senators of the forward party and the left green to support us in this matter, as well as the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u71	President. In some ways, I understand the highest. The Minister of Wood doesn't want to repeat what he asks to apologize for. But it is also to tell you what is not okay. It is part of our responsibility and the responsibility of the minister to say, "I'm sorry because it's not okay. There is nothing anyone should be ashamed of. It's been acknowledged that it's not okay, and it's just to be placed on the table. That's how we work at the Generals. We try to be as open and transparent as we can here live on the IIlium deliverer. That would be, I think, a very healthy message as to what the policy as a law not to discriminate against race and background is all about. I'm calling for the highest. The Minister of Industrials comes out and says straight out: "It's not okay, let's not do this again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u72	Madam President. As we have seen, the Council has twice requested the Supreme Court. Minister, come talk to us about this. I mentioned it here, and I reiterate that I suspect the highest. Ministers are given advice from somewhere to keep your mouth shut and wait for this after an apology. I would like to point out the difference between the counseling as the highest. Apparently a minister had received, and many were in a comparable position during the last eight years. It seems that the line is spoken of as being dead and silent. So I just want to roll it up to the highest level. Minister, if he will take this classical counselling, whether he shall take it all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u73	Madam President. If that's what I want from the highest order. A minister has not received the council, of course, it is an independent report. This includes the highest. A minister does not intend to have a conversation about this matter here at the General Assembly. I think it is proper to be informed whether the Minister has requested to come and give this report or not. We have a code of ethics for the Generals. We have a committee that deals with ethical issues. We're monitoring the implementation of these rules. There is a significant chance of this, I think, that this is a phrase and word exchange that falls under the standards of the ethic. It is important that this issue be settled in the right place, not out of public relations or media games. That's what the council is for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u74	Madam President. During the last weekend, reports of the racist protests of the inside minister were received. The next weekend begins the Easter break of the General Assembly, which lasts two weeks, so the time to answer for this comment here in the hall is today and tomorrow. The minister must be able to account for his words in front of a council and a nation at that time. How much more formal do we need when we ask for a minister here to discuss this? It has been mentioned at a meeting of the council groups with the president that it is too difficult for the minister to attend neither question period of the week and that the minister will be present for either period of the week. They always come to somebody else. In addition, we have mentioned this from the General's symposium twice in a clear manner. How far must we go? Do we have to make formal proposals to force the minister into the hall? I wouldn't have thought it would have to come to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u75	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate my challenge to members of the Independence Party, members of Congress Left Green and Council to come up here and help bring it up here and call it up here that this case is settled on the right field. I'm not asking the members of these classes to have a statement of confidence or mistrust or to express themselves materially on this matter, but I ask the members of these classes to see their own worth in supporting this simple requirement that the matter be settled here in the right place. That we do not need to continue to have a word at the highest level. A minister without having a clean standing before him here in this public talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u76	A respectable president. It is bad to have a discussion here at the council Hall, where a minister does not really address in any way the questions addressed to him by members of the council. But what I'd like to discuss here with this team, about the President's conference board, is that it's been a month since I've sent a request for a written reply to a social minister about the number of micro-organists who have suffered the loss of the insurance company's payments due to the assessment of special savings. It is imperative that we here at the council get answers to this inquiry as soon as possible. I remind you that in the U.S. Congress it is time to answer a question in general within 15 days, so I would like a client to use himself as a social minister to answer that inquiry. It may be minimal that a minister responds to written inquiries quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u77	Madam President. I want to agree with this wish. Senator. Today, we have faced a number of situations in which we have pointed out to a respectable president these minimal rules that we enjoy. We have tools to be used by members of Congress, one of which is to present written inquiries to the minister. The law is extremely clear about the limits of time in that subject, but it is, unfortunately, more often than not, that the time limit required by the law is substantially exceeded. I feel like it's holding hands with another beat we've been having here in the last few months. But I'd like to direct it to the President and ask her help to press the highest power. Advertising to take care of the law's obligation to answer the questions and at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u78	Madam President. I just want to agree with the people here who have taken a note of how bad it is when ministers don't answer questions until after a cloth and a plate. Let us be at the same time, though they turn out and fail to respond to verbal requests, as is often done during unsubstantiated queries time, but when writing requests are as often as often as they can be, we must ask ourselves, " Is my answers unpleasant? ' I'd especially like to mention it, because it was before me. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, her inquiry from the beginning of a council on the access of people to psychological services regardless of their economic situation. That answer was 100 days past the 15 - day climax, the 15 - day deadline, simply because the answer was rather inconspicuous; the government was just not doing well, let alone doing better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u79	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. A minister on a comment I see on page 20. 15 on the bill, number 4. It says, by permission of the President: It was noted that no resources or penalties were found because of the failure of Member States to provide information to the fund. According to the Ministry, it is not preferable that the funds will be allowed for day-to-day or other policy measures, and this will harmonize with the poor activities of automation institutions. In the event that the fund does not provide the Member State with the relevant information, there will be an obvious reason for special consideration and response as needed. I wondered if a minister can review it with me if this comment has been made, if it is not a reason to react to it. If you do not respond to this comment, as I read from this suggestion, how will you react afterwards when business companies fail to perform their information? I just want it to be clear first if there's some kind of pressure strategy being put in to make sure of this and if not, why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u80	A respectable president. I think there's a clue here that might be a challenge but has not been tested in the sense that there is no problem in the present situation. As noted in the comment, the Ministry has felt that it would not be well if a financial agency in Iceland failed to carry out its legal duties. Although this point was generally protected by the law, it can be associated with the changes in pay paid here. But I'm sure the committee is only doing this comment so that it would be determined by what kind of reaction would come from the management system, e.g. that the fund's management brought to the attention of the National Bank the fact that there was no need for people to abide by legal regulations concerning deposit. Then I assume the legislation will open to the applicant's potential to respond according to the specifications.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u81	A respectable president. I certainly find reasons for the committee to look into this point further because there is no room for forcedness without legal authority when it is found that companies or partners are not following the rules set. That's what we know. They call attention to the lack of resources or penalties due to the failure of Member States to information sources for the fund. It may be true that a private institution does not have the authority to use what they talk about, date or other forms of pressure, as this would be in harmony with the wrong function of the private institutions. All right. It's like the highest. A minister might be more likely to mention them in the hands of the Federal Commission to do so. But it must have to be in the preconceived law, not after we find out that this is a problem, because then we can't use these pressure measures, neither day-to-day fines, as mentioned here, nor other means of evasioning these sources of information that are expected by the law. And that's why I wondered if it's not just important for the committee to be alone in making sure that the SEC has these sources to be forced because we don't really want to get involved, as it seems to be the case so often, that we say, "Yes, this might be a problem, but we just come to that point, and then we don't have the legal authority to deal with it. I don't think it's a desirable development, and we should rather concentrate on having this just in case, as shown in the report, on the Member States, not giving it information. I don't feel that if there are no tools to respond, there will be an obvious reason to look into it specifically and to respond as necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u82	A respectable president. I have no comment on the fact that this will be examined specifically by the Committee and wondered what monitoring privileges may be available for the Sentencing Bank to cope with this situation. I would have thought that by denying the delivery of data, as long as it is not disputed that they are to be delivered, the fund could receive support from the Secret Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u83	President. I call the senators' attention to a link with this model bill, which shows the difference between the current law and the change, overrun and shows what is replaced. It is very helpful in such technical matters where these words are being replaced in this article and this paragraph, etc. When you look at this, you see the context in everything. The first of these articles contains, for example, the following: Changing the deposit fund and investing into insurance fund for financial companies. There's a lot of name-changes in there. There are a few things that I can put my eyes in and sort of one of the most funny things I think or maybe the most ironic, if I put it that way, is in the new 87s. a, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Despite 3 mg. The enterprise shall pay a fixed donation in the return fund [...] if its total shares are less than equivalent to one billion euro in Icelandic dollars and its overall commitments to the rest of the capital and loyalty of deeps are equal or lower than the equivalent of 300 million euro in Icelandic kronos. Now walking back and forth, I wonder that if we were in the euro, it wouldn't all have a tremendous impact on a company where they always have their jobs in euro. But here, there's a constant need to be on top of the walk, whether a company jumps under or over these criteria, and that can do it all the way back and forth without actually having an idea, because maybe the place in the Icelandic kroner isn't going to change, but if the gang of euro flutters is suddenly set up by regulations that need to be paid in cash. How should it be treated part of a year or part of a day or whatever the procedure will take? I'm gonna scratch my head just for a second. There's been a bit of an argument about whether to pick up Euro in Iceland, get rid of the crown. Now these euro are being turned into law rather than crowns. I think it's kind of ironic. Maybe that's because of an order, there's only a requirement to have this equal value of 500 million euro, there's a requirement to have euros there. All right. But would it not be normal to translate it into Icelandic kronos and perhaps reimburse a year or something like that, aim for some level of success to allow companies to have a much more predictable scale in the media they use all equals? Unless, of course, financial companies are always renovating in euros anyway. Then it may not be important to anyone else. This comes naturally into this classic conversation, there are some here who always make up the currency of a currency other than the Icelandic people. At least I recommend that people examine this change. There's another thing I'm scratching myself only in my head, there's a change in the law on deposit insurance and an investment insurance system. This bill is a bandworm. In 1 1. The bill that will be 1. c., it is said that the objective is being changed with the law. I'm just trying to figure out if there's something else for the depositors. They say: The aim of these laws is to provide minimal protection due to financial problems, in accordance with the regulations of these laws, and to treat the loan institutions and stock companies for financial institutions and clients. However, the objective of the law was to provide depositors in business banks and savings and business friends which provide investment services, etc. Minimum protection. I'm just trying to figure out how the protection against the private owners of the building together in these changes to the current law. The aim is to provide clients with minimal protection but at present it is to provide minimum protection due to financial costs, in accordance with the laws on loan management and stock markets to internal owners. This wording, I'm only scratching in my head over it. I don't fully understand whether the objective of providing minimum protection for the tenants is maintained. However, these are some changes, and it definitely helps to have this comparative document. It's impossible to read this from law itself. And that's how you look at things like that, because all the odds are just changing like that. The name of this deposit fund for financial companies from the deposit fund of depositors and investors. Then there's the fact that you're talking about a penitentiary, and then you're in pain a little bit, even though you have this change in the box in front of you. So I'd like to get a little explanation on the committee's discussion of these depositors. It may be our hearts to Icelanders after the collapse of the bank that our circumstances are guaranteed, that the local citizens of business banks are guaranteed appropriately. It was a special decision to ensure only the entire event that would require many, of course, but it was a self - determination, although it could have had a far greater impact on who was exactly under it. It was an old process. But I see this change in terms of minimum protection, and I feel that it is my goal to shift from being the goal of providing partners with minimal protection to provide minimum protection for financial problems. That protection could extend to the depositors and clients of financial companies, all right, but I think it's only a little less vague with this expression so that it would be nice to get a better explanation for it in a committee party at the Committee. But otherwise, when you've made a bit of fun of this euro joke, it's a very interesting thing. If it weren't for the EEA, I think we'd be in much worse business. We're getting so much. This is a technical issue that we are dealing with, and our body size or initiative in the government's will to get involved in complex, technical, organ - changing issues seems to be extremely low. Somehow we need to get it out of the way, order it: Here's a new system that needs to be installed, please do well. We have to do this because of a contract we have there. Otherwise, we would always be just in our old carts, which gradually expires, and others are always taking advantage of a little more, and eventually everything in our face explodes. It's somehow the culture around here that we say, " We made it once, and it's great, and it's about to work forever. ' Until it stops working. It is simply because society changes and evolution, and technology solutions change how we do business and use banks and things like that. The systems we created once were great then, but they simply expire and become useless as they progress in efficiency, speed, etc. Also, about originals, such innovations in business, which are creating complex holding systems and such, and you have seen that even government agencies simply don't have the resources to watch who's doing what. We got a good presentation on this, for example. from the United Kingdom, where only a company such as this is used to create nursing homes that use all kinds of contracts back and forth to, in effect, exploit the public system. Clearly, there is a better solution to the arrangement, where these parties have established a system for misuse of the law in the way that they are installed. We need to be constantly following it. This case is part of it, and I just make these two comments, about the euro on the one hand that I find interesting to have there, and on the other hand, I'd like to make sure the protection is there to the real people. I don't see it so well, but there may be other laws that would further explain it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u84	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. I have to admit that I've just done a scan of this bill, but I've read it better when I heard his speech and wherever we're on this matter with a crown and a euro, it's interesting. It tells a certain story, I think the Icelandic lawgiver is in position that when he has to frame someone's law code, he's using the euro. Maybe that's the explanation. This reminds me of an interesting conversation I had in the last fall of the campaign in which I attended a small company at a meeting where people referred to the business environment that a company in the same paper that was employed in Germany might be remembered to print their booklets. For a moment, I was turning the person on, and he says: " Yes, it's because the guards stand by to stand on paper. The prices remain, which was then the commercial reality of the euro. I heard a speech coming from you. But the senator still wanted to come up here specifically to ask him out at this point regarding a donation in a return fund, as it is suggested in the bill. For what reasons does he actually believe that this standard is being used, as much as 300 million euros in Icelandic dollars?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u85	A respectable president. Let me guess, it's because it's coming directly from the Directive, the European rule, it's moving straight across, there's some kind of damage going on or something like that, which is interesting. The second thing that I find in this context is a provision for me to make, saying, By the end of 2022, we will move $2.3 billion. from the fund's deposit section to the return fund. So there's the return fund with the Icelandic crown, and there's the possibility of securing a company that's making up in euros. If the criteria are in euros because the companies are making up in euros, then it may be quite normal. But that's when the return funds are made with crowns to secure financial problems, payment problems, euro. Then you ask: " Why, then, is it not a set of dollars in euros that must be placed in a return fund? ' If it's also about when companies are about to pay him extra and that kind of money? Maybe a little discrepancy there in the law that I think needs to squeeze out and get some better explanations. And why 26.3 billion? It's very likely, because it's such a precise number, up to hundreds of millions of dollars, calculated from some euro, doesn't know what the scale is according to the size of the economy here or something like that, but if there's any damage to it, it's also going to have to change every year. If Iceland is being sold and the financial system blows because it has become more valuable, it needs to be returned, for example. To be bigger?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u86	Madam President. It may well be a rough one. According to a senator, this is in effect being translated and submitted to the General Assembly, perhaps leading to a different question about the European issue when discussing Iceland's arrival. We see it regularly in the introductions that here comes a case of shock without any physical expression and is it really better to have no man at the table than to have a man at the table? But I feel that this translation, when we have the European currency into Icelandic legislation without it forming a part of our reality, sheds light on a big story and a big truth that is, like a whale. A senator noted that a large number of companies already do so in euro, taking part in working within the currency because it is more convenient for them to do so. The average person in Iceland sits in the real world of the Icelandic dollars, with a salary in a dollar, a loan in a dollar's environment, and an inflation in accordance with the economist environment. So I think this small, innocent translation here will tell us a considerably larger story than it might be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u87	A respectable president. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. A senator, this tells us a larger story about a certain situation, as I spoke of earlier, actually desalination. It will always be more complex and difficult to maintain a decrease in ever bigger global economy. It's like someone's talking at the Mocking Giant System, and it shakes like you don't know what something's moving in the big stage. That's when the dollar rolls back and forth and shakes over here and there. It would be possible to do things similar to Denmark, e.g., at least as a first step, to make sure that the euro does not fully attach to the euro, but it first begins to take a release. However, the Danes are just terriblely hard on their loose terms, including criteria, variations from the euro that may be fluttered within a given period of time, so that rapid change will not be effective. They just say, "It's gonna be okay at some point. There are cumulative changes over a long period of time that they have to look at and adjust to. We're so much in the present. Oh, no, it's changing now. And that is understandable because we are trying to maintain an independent currency and all its fluttering rather than aim for currency status after all. It may have been tried a little more by collecting currency stores that have had a positive effect on inflation development. [[The president calls.]] But in view of this, I think a senator is absolutely right, and this will help us to see a certain redemption that we need to take seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a pleasant reflection. The bill we're discussing here today, of course, is about the implementation of an arrangement in the Council of Europe and the 2014/59 Council for restoration and restoration of loan institutions and stock companies, let's just call it the BRRD, as done in the bill. It may be helpful to draw attention here that the EFTA Institute of Observation has initiated a formal lawsuit against Iceland because of a delay in implementing this directive. Maybe I'd like to pray. A senator might ask me, " What is holding this induction? ' Why is there always this limp, this house of induction? How could this be better managed and make it fast and without giving up the important role that is possible for us at the Council to do a very good work on the types that come from the European Union and we are to be introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u89	President. Now I'm not on the financial and business board that this is going to be, and I'm just trying to get my feet on this one, I ran across that very part of the law that I thought was interesting. I believe, however, that the entrance Hall is of two kinds. On the one hand, these are sometimes complex technical issues. We simply do not have an enormous amount of body volume or a technical pressure on people to do this. It's complicated, it's just very obvious. Our size makes it that there are not very many people in this sector who can deal with such complex technical issues, just being busy with other things. We've got a lot of people in it, but it's just a bunch of other jobs. The main reason is simply that Icelandic management is relatively subversive in general. This implies that we do not really have enough monitoring in the European Union, the directives and regulations in preparation and on the way here, so that we often do a lot later in the process than we should, and are less prepared for it. The reason for this is just a subsidiary. There's always been a complaint about growing the hatch, and there must now be very little, etc., but these are the consequences. We have a little booth, that's just the way it is. [[The president calls.]] We're a small country, so according to our proportions, we seem to have a large booth, but we have a small stream compared with the technical issues we have to sort out, regardless of our size. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u90	Madam President. I can totally agree that in many ways we have very little booths. Because this has been spoken of a crown and a euro and a European community, I just want to point out the tremendous booth it calls on to support its independent currency. And the same way when we talk about induction of types from the European Union. We are accepting rules without really having anything to say about how they are developed and how they come about. We are very limited in the quality of the European Union. Speaking of baloney. Would any other European Parliament accept the fact that they are online for a whole and a half days? No, it's just one example of many. Right men always talk as if it's all blowing out so much and that there's too much overcrowding. But often it is my experience that government agencies are just not well financed. But maybe we'll stick to the subject here. Today, we are often working on dog sprays in an assembly because of the European teamwork we are involved in, and it is not always clear what appears in the prime project is something that will lead to the inevitable results and what is not, whatever we really do have an example of. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If he looks at the report of this bill that I see and hear he has read and studied, how does he feel about it? Is it clear in this bill we're discussing today what the Ministry and we here have an example of itself and what leads inevitably to the types being introduced? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u91	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect a talk period that is not open to protest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u92	President. No, I don't think it's obvious. It often takes a European rule to make this comparison an example of simply lying to us at the council on what the European Regulation says, according to the subject of the bill we receive. I remember a case about the communications and the network security force. There was an interpretation of how the Internet security team should be accessed and should actually control monitoring, which was incorrect. I don't know why, whether there was some error in translation or if there was a firm offense there. I've also seen with regard to the Alse Treaty, it was only different, there I have seen interpretations that it may be just a case or court route, which was obviously wrong by e.g. Prominents on environmental impacts were able to consult both panels and courts, but national protection could only consult the Commission rather than the courts. So it is absolutely necessary that this should be made clear to us, and that will also be added to the complexities under the EEA procedure for the variation from European regulations sometimes given to the EEA. [[The president calls.]] It's also a little vague at times. Sadly, all too often we need to read the original text.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u93	A respectable president. It's been way too long since the Council has talked about the Icesave case and I think there's every reason to talk about it here today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] You see, I want to draw attention to the changes suggested in paragraph 14. The bill. It is suggested that the management of the fund, the return fund, be made up of four individuals, before there were six, and that one should be appointed according to the appointment of the Commission of finance, one according to the appointment of the Sentencing Bank, and two of the Ministers without appointment, of which one of the latter shall be appointed president. In effect, this means that the government, the minister, and the city of Iceland, a government agency, will have more than one share in this government. The deposit fund of the depositors points out in its review of the case, which was shown when the bill images entered the consultation puzzle, that there may be a certain danger. I'll get to read a little bit where the insurance fund points out this: As stated earlier, two of the four executives will be designated by a minister, of which one of them becomes president of the administration, and the president's votes shall be determined to match the votes of the statesmen. Thus, the informed government officials, in effect, will be able to, in the power of the vote of the chairman of the board, resolve their votes at the hearings of the board. In addition, Iceland's Secret Bank, a state agency of law, has a third member of the four board of directors. In addition to the proposed proposals, it may be a potential risk, as assessed by the TIF, to be viewed as being rather symptomatic of the state-of-the-art centre, regardless of the overdeveloped products of the fund as an automaton. And then the story ends with Icesave. Of course, there the ESA, the EFTA monitoring agency, claimed that the deposit of depositors was the product of the Icelandic state. These are evidences that many felt convincing in their time and that others did not. As a result, the State was responsible for the commitments of the fund. However, the EFTA Court concluded that it was not relevant to the solution of the case, but it also began to conclude that this situation was not proved by ESA. In a sense, that was the way it dealt with. Then you can wonder if it would have affected the solution of the Icesave case if the ESA had put other factors and more emphasis on this case and the administrative structure of the insurance fund. So it's something the fund says in the review, and I think this tip is a little bit taken care of in the bill's report. In fact, it just says: It was the review of TIF's review that there may be a threat to the development of the auto-replacement agency as being considered to be more symptomatic of the state-of-the-art centre than the autologous institution because of the bill's implementation of the changed composition of the administration. Please refer to the case of the EFTA Agency against the Icelandic government in the Icesave language: ▪ The reason for this was to suggest that TIF is a product of the Icelandic State and therefore the State is responsible for the commitments of the fund. In the case of EFTA, the court considered the cause of the case, such as the ESA procedure, to be of no significance to the case. So it's just, you know, like: The issue of Icesave and the controversy that was present in this case are conscious of the problem. For one thing, the fund does not change business practices. He's going to be the old self-inflicted institution... But this is not what TIF was pointing out in his review. There is no doubt that this will continue to be a private institution. The question is, Do you really get the appearance of some kind of government budget and what meaning that may have in the future? - I don't think I've got this for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u94	Mr. President. When I heard the mention of Icesave, I think it's even the first time I discuss that matter here in the councilroom. You see, I think it's just a little loose, like cot. A senator points out, especially if we look back on another comment that the TIF brings in his comments in his comment on the confidentiality, which makes the fact that TIF cannot lay a date when due persons do not return what is required of them. This would result in a loss of self - possession, even if the management form was the same by the law code. But that's not what TIF is saying in the review either. TIF says: We don't care if we call it an automaton because if the government is changed in the way it's suggested in the bill, this will have all the signs of a state agency that would have the foundation weaker, no matter what the state wants to call it. [[The president calls.]] So I agree my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u95	A respectable president. I agree with exactly what was said. I would like to point out that although the EFTA Court has come to a certain conclusion on this aspect of the matter at a certain time, the European Court develops very rapidly. Both the European Court of Justice and the EFTA are courts known for their progression or creative interpretation, and in this context, I think that this must be considered a little better. I trust the Economic and Business Committee will do it and review it well with people who know best about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u96	Mr. President. I don't necessarily keep water because this particular incident is what we're talking about, but here's the general basis for this operation. Then it is not possible to hang in exactly how the evidence was presented in the case at the time. Rather, I feel that the Ministry had the right to take down the Icesave glasses and look at this more general view. But I'd like to mention again the day's fine because I think it's really important, not exactly whatever the management plan of TIF: What was the problem in the crash? Is that not the very fact that organizations did not have the right information? Was it not true that governments were left out in both eyes and did not know where they were going in the financial system? I think if anything should be changed in this bill, it would be a good idea to put in some clearer force of pressure against the sources this system is supposed to cover because this system exists for the common people who burned themselves in the crash. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u97	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind to what just came out here. I explained earlier that certain comments from the fund had been taken care of a little bit by the bill report, and I think this is also true of this very day's fines. It says: If the Member State enterprise does not provide it with information requested, there will be an obvious reason for special consideration and management as needed. So it is the Ministry's reaction to the comment that the fund is basically admissible to a day's work or to some other form of pressure. I wondered: " Does the damage always take action? Maybe you'd like to look at it and try to be a little bit ahead with the line under your back and cover it up before the baby falls into it, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u98	Mr. President. It is certainly true that when reading this case, a mind - boggling connection develops with events that occurred here a few years ago, quite a number of people actually. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson I jumped to the moment I heard the word Icezave, since this is, of course, closely related to the matter in which the government's food can be debated at that point. What I want to ask you is why. Regarding what he mentioned earlier about the comment on this bill, the senator believes that the answers we find here, the limited answers that will be sufficient to prevent what we can imagine will be the failure of having this in fact a state institution rather than a self - interest agency to which it is named?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u99	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. At least I think it's very important that we consider now in the process here at the council that it will be sent a very clear message that this fund is not a government tool. Whether to change the text or if it is sufficient to do so in exposital data in committees etc. I don't know, but I think this has to be done very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer I agree with. Now I'm a lawyer myself, and there's always a big problem when the lawyer trusts that a review of a paper by means of a case makes up for holes or other things, or just any other command that then appears in the song itself, because it's now in our system that it's the law text that counts. The other is just an explanation, not to add rules or fill holes or other items. This makes me worried, especially because there was another point that was mentioned in the review of the TIF that certain aspects of the Law were needed, and then I'm talking about the first comment by the TIF. The Ministry's response to comments requesting a diagnosis in the law is just to add the caption for a paper. [[The president calls.]] I can say as a lawyer that this is certainly not enough, so I reiterate my question to the why. A senator: Does he consider the lyrics as sufficient? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u101	A respectable president. This is an important indication of the first comments discussed in the discussion section of a report. I'd like to get in touch with the Icesave case and the point to point out that in the Icesave case, the natural principle was that the EFTA Court of this particular situation was not relevant for the resolution of the case. But as I said before, of course, the European Court, the EU right, is a very fun thing. It develops rapidly and the law is interpreted in a very creative way, so I think both the EU Court and the EFTA court have to be very careful to establish whether there is any real danger here or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. The time is short when we are discussing this particular matter, and there are fear - inspiring steps, and there are examples to be avoided. These are very practical suggestions. A member of the United States comes along to consider this in context of the fact that it seems that the Icelandic government is systematically absent when working on the European Union as a legal arrangement, although it is a case that we then bring in to us in relation to the European Economic Area Convention, certainly most of the cases that come to us for good and still a matter that we would like to influence and view, and often have something to do in times past but are absent. It's, like, a... A case that has to do with our painful history of Icelanders, and I would be interested in hearing what's happened. A senator at our office, whether this was something he thought we had, for example. can flaunt previous legal procedures and how he feels about our general work of being so late. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u103	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, of course, it is that EFTA has already begun a formal case treatment for Iceland by completing this particular directive so that we are already behind a plan of this. Of course, as mentioned earlier, one would have wanted to see that such important comments - I don't think the reporters are joking when they point out these points - that there's a review on it by the Ministry. There's a lot of powerful experts there who can handle it well and have good perspective. But it seems to me, considering how bad this report is, that this work will land at the council, and I hope that that doesn't hold it any further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u104	President. Thank you. Senator. It is naturally accurate, and we also know that there are times when other factors are being absorbed into matters that make work even more complex, for example. The members of the council and the council. But another thing is, if we move further in the process, it's only by the legislation itself at the European Parliament, where various interest groups have a very effective presence. Other countries, especially Norway, continue to live there despite being formally in the same position as Iceland as a member of this agreement with the European Economic Area, making themselves available in that area, and I know that these Norwegians are often influenced in early stages. This has been discussed, it is costly, and it is even complex and expensive. But I wondered, and it would be nice to hear a thought. A senator, whether at times it could be said that we were saving our money and throwing it in the light of what happens since when we were going into an induction process on the case we hadn't come to, is heavy, and would have liked to see somehow differently if we had had had had had had a chance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u105	A respectable president. I can take my mind off this. At times, the European Union is criticized for democracies, and in some respects there may be a point. I think, for example. The European Union should have more power than it already has. But the democratic palace pales in comparison with the democracy that is involved in taking places almost unafraid on the available forms from the European Union. Of course, we should have a seat at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u106	A respectable president. This has only been discussed, but I would like to discuss it a little further, and there is this 4th point in the review of the TIF that turns to their having neither day-to-day authority nor any other means of paving to drive out information if the Member States's enterprise does not provide information to the fund. And exactly that quote as a boy. In answer to the previous ministry's response, a senator concluded that there will be an obvious reason to look into it specifically and to respond as necessary if the problem arises. Now it is so in the court state that forcedness cannot be used or some form of punishment if it is not clear in the law, so that is actually being said, and I wondered whether. A senator agrees with me in this: We are not going to have any means of forcedness. You can't react afterwards. Unrecognised measures can be taken as needed. That's what the Ministry of Economics knows. After the situation comes up, what is the sound of the wording, and it is not a matter of respecting laws? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u107	A respectable president. I can agree with this reflection. What the fund points out in its review is that the bill does not expect any resources or penalties when Member States neglect their information obligation to their funds. Well, we burned ourselves on this in all kinds of contexts in the years before collapse. There may well be some reasons why it is not desirable to hide such an arrangement, but it must be explained in a paper so that we can take a stand on their viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u108	A respectable president. I asked the highest. The secretary of finance, who had not responded to this and how it was right to do so, pointed to the possibility that the UN could have that authority. Where we're at. A senator is on both financial and business committees, and I wonder if we should not merely isolate ourselves into it, if it doesn't work to have a private agency in this business - that they'll be entrusted to the SEC for a day's fine. But only to one of these linked, which is to do things afterwards. We've just seen this happen. V.E.G. The secretary of finance comes here and says that, yes, he's going to publish information on the stockholders at the sales of Iceland Bank if allowed. Wait, I'm sorry, but why wasn't the invitation to make sure the law allowed it? Is it not this way: Yes, if circumstances arise, we may find out something from it, if there is a clear basis for making a special examination and responding as necessary. This is a fixed solution to a view that is somehow always in this government, forever free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u109	A respectable president. That's right, that's right. In fact, I must admit that I was surprised when this list was published in the light of this declaration: ▪ If the law permits to show me. I don't think there's a disagreement on how these laws should be interpreted, and I hope they won't try this in court, that there won't be anyone who'll be in harm's way with the state. But what do you know? The same is true of what we are discussing here today, and this should be clear, and this should be clearly in advance. The well must be stopped before the baby falls into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u110	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but there are some things that I really want to come in after I've been standing here wondering why. paritaprevir Jóhann Jónsson. I may still get to start with something that's wrong. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson pointed out about 7th. a in the bill according to the amount in euro on the field of payment in return funds. I think the Economic and Business Committee needs to see how it's just for the clarity of the law. As it has been pointed out, the gangs of the crown swing from day to day, and although I now imagine that there is a table for most loans, it must be more comfortable to have an accounting in the same currency as most creditors are expected to be. Don't these institutions most of them have accounts in Icelandic dollars here in Iceland? That's something the committee's expected to look at. But I thought it was particularly cool when you have the bill in front of you and look at the opening of this law because the other side of the opening of it is reflected in this European principle of a new provisional law that is suggested to be added to the law that the management of bail should be transferred to 26.3 billion dollars. of the departments of the fund no later than before the end of 2022. So it is not even consistent with the use of currency in the bill itself on a single opening. But this was a short ride. I'd like to mention two things I'd like to do, and maybe there's a financial and business committee that, in its discussion, could give me a clearer light. First of all, here's 7. b Consider something special in the future. There are a few questions that wake them up. First, if financial funds are not sufficient to cope with losses or other factors, do they have the authority to tell the local bank employees who hold this issue, be allowed to demand companies and branch offices for a specific follow-up? So it's a fee or a donation to the return fund according to this 7. y., but according to the b-joins, it should be added that it can be charged afterwards. Of course, questions about recovery efficiency arise, how it only works on the system's general doubts about recovery. We can't put laws back again, we can't, I think, take taxes back. This may clearly be serious because a special advance in the future can be made up of up to three times a year's donation, as is usually achieved. So the amount to study at least For a certain enterprise, 1% of the devotions at the back can fall three times in the future. Maybe I don't know how to deal with the financial system, but I think it's weird. What I find strange, too, is that this special process of advancement affects certain types of companies and branches, which say business and branch offices according to the e- team 1 mg. 2.g. the management plan for the loan institutions and stock companies. What are the companies of this team? There are companies and, if appropriate, branch offices in the country of lenders outside the European Economic Area. Now I just don't have any ideas to figure out what agencies could be involved - are there some Swiss banks with branches in Iceland that we would like to ask for a triple dessert to cover something? I don't understand this, Mr. President, but I'm looking forward to seeing whether the economic and business committees at the bottom of this and can guide us to the truth as to what this matter is about; why it applies to non-EU institutions but not within the EEA. The day-to-day bill, which is not in the bill, which we discussed here in the matter of action - the insurance fund itself points out in the review of the grammatical puzzle that it is only normal for law to make clear some particular resources when it is neglected to give information to the fund. I have to admit, Madam President, that I'm a little worried about how the Ministry will react to this in the bill's report. According to the Ministry, it is not desirable for the fund to be given a day's legal rights, which does not fit in with the activities of the private organisations. It may well be, but there must be some wood laws to ensure a continuation of these laws. But then the Ministry adds up and says, by permission of the President: If the Member State enterprise does not provide it with information requested, there will be an obvious reason for special consideration and management as needed. Is that not so long? I looked up a report on the World Council of Research and the cause of the Falling of the 2008 banks, which is now appropriate on a day in which we are discussing research committees on the personalisation of banks at the highest level. Secretary of finance. And what does it reveal when we look up the chapter on insurance and investors? Yes, it turns out that it is a great deal of work on the lack of meaningful information on what financial commitments were going on over the fall of banks. Part of this was because of government neglect, that one part - time worker was to hold this fund to cover a financial system that was far greater than normal could be counted for country by Icelandic magnitude. But part of it was also this innuendo race that the banks were standing in just before collapse, and then we had a special contact with the Lands Bank that went specifically to the Netherlands and Britain to collect funds through Icesave accounts. I'd like to kill down here where it is said what has been done about the hearing of the former businessman, Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, who was a business minister before a crash. He said that at the time of our reporting, he had no further details on the increase in loans in the Icelandic banks than had been reported in reports and reports from the SEC and the Federal Bank. He knew of this gathering abroad on credits, but those figures didn't argue with him. It was not until 2008 that he was fully informed of this. He mentioned, for example, that at the beginning of April 2008, he had not been informed that there was a 200 million pounds of Icesave account in the United Kingdom until a long time later. This should not be determined exactly where the lack of information was, but I think this example must make us think at least of putting some kind of pressure strategy in order to ensure that the information to the authorities should be transmitted. It is not possible to write this indication into the account of TIF by pushing it aside with some explanation that could be explained as: Well, if the damage is done, then let's handle it, then we can look at court decisions or other means of expedient. Because the damage is done. So, there's something, I'm just going to say to the sofael that this wasn't examined in the Ministry before the case came to us, and especially because the way the damage happened in 2008 is something that the public know, for example, is something. Much more than before the crash. Before a collapse, it was a drawer that no one thought of and contained, that I recall, shortly before the collapse of 10 billion, but would have had to have 2,000 or 3,000 billion available in order to cope with the shock. But after the collapse, I thought exactly that we had begun to walk this road much more cautiously, and could be told that we have done it too gently, which is reflected, for example. in that this 26.3 billion transfer, which I mentioned earlier at the outset of my speech, should take place on temporary regulations in the bill, is the amount that today's deposit status would need for 2027 billion. In other words, there is the reference to the European principle here for the return fund: considering what is insured at the heart of today, 11 billion people must be on hand in the fund. We already have a belt and shoulders in this fund because everyone in the Federal Bank, we all in politics, all the public, knows how important it is that this rule is solid, that we don't talk about it at this exact time, because we see a financial secretary putting much of the bank on the same side and that it was a case here before a crash. The people who had a big dominant part in Glits and Congress are suddenly knocking again. So, yes, it's a bad mental connection to see the Ministry write off this information about the need to be forced by the law because if I was a government officer, I wouldn't dare. I would not dare to trust that the financial system will forever be honest that all information is properly and in time to the insurance fund so that it is always ready to intervene in times of crisis, just in the light of experience and, in view of the recent weeks of the development of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u111	A respectable president. Taking care of such a big and big matter is far too difficult, but we can see that we've had these things a long time on the table, and we've been ashamed of the European Union for not making sure that these types and decrees are in our laws. You see the purpose of all of this, to create some foundation, so if it goes badly, there's someone who's gonna be there to make sure of those who are under it. But already it is. A senator began to mention the members who are now owners or shareholders in financial companies, members who caused us to see our banking system fall like gambling cities in their time, they are back in, they are incarcerated, and you begin to wonder if by some means, or if such legislation can help to set up some kind of fence that can prevent this. We see so many people jumping in and out and carrying no responsibility, and then the state's stuck with everything and maybe the Icelandic public. Do we see that there is any possibility of preventing such a thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u112	Mr. President. Of course, there are procedures to make that ensure holding companies as important as financial companies is in the hands of strong parties. We have a lot of similar rules. Here, earlier today, the highest spoke. A minister of finance in some hospice about the fact that banks were being created as a list of the most desirable owners. Of course. There are all kinds of lists of people that are desirable for the other and this or undesirable. My mom tried, for example. To open a bank account in Iceland the other day and have to answer all kinds of questions because her son is a senator to make sure she didn't have some money bullshit. Of course. This is just part of the rule we've made to ensure both transparency and prevention of corruption. It's obviously not as stiff when it comes to the holding of Iceland Bank as it is on the floor when people are starting bills. Never would I have thought that in the group of those who were given a special invitation to buy stock in the bank -- we are not talking about some people who were just going into the stock market and buying letters that were available, no, these were people who were called and invited to buy at subsidiary - the number of people who were just big players in the crash that would build up the gambling city that all of the public then have to carry the loads, left behind them a tens of millions of puffs of swellings that would have nothing to do. There were others who shouldered that burden. I think it's amazing that just as soon as this happens, the same people are in the same business with the gold minister's invitation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u113	A respectable president. It has been in my mind that what has improved Iceland's rule has come from outside. For some reason, we do not seem ready to deal with these things, which are often dangerous for our community, that we are few here, and here we have a particular gangry and cousinry that often governs. I remember when we were active candidates for involvement in the European Union, and I as a member of the European Union of Iceland and others were called by a representative from the EU, and they were actually just completely shocked. Where's the system? Where are the systems you're working on? That's how you experience it. You can see the social security travel all the way out and south, and they always say, "You can't stop it, you can't stop it. It's not against the law to go off. The Icelandic public has to have some defense against such things because it is a very damaging cause of society. They're running to buy money, and then it's just the Icelandic public who's stuck with it. I'd like to know if the Senator saw some defenses in this directive we're discussing right now that could make us more protected and that these guarantees work in order to exist as the funds that can improve the damage that will be done in case of disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u114	Mr. President. It is tempting to go around the world and talk about the political elements that always make fun of what is called in the order of a surveillance industry, a system designed to protect the public and our common interests and the interests of individuals who are living in the paths and interests of nature and the future. It's the surveillance industry. It's just that it's about that we can assume that it's here, for example. All employment practices are in line with the laws and regulations, they are not social subsidies or some pigs in the labour market. We need surveillance to monitor it. We need day - to - day gains and resources to intervene if the workplace is to cheat on the rules of a labour market. Why does it not take some resources to deal with the lack of legal information about the business, so that insurance funds are in place to address the potential losses of the Agency? Which agency is most likely to fail to understand this information? Yes, that is exactly what is most likely to be on the verge of falling, and it is more urgent that it convey information. But what can be done? Of course, the induction of these types is to improve the Icelandic code of law. This is so as to explain things and bring them closer to what happens in a European financial market. We're in just one of Europe's financial markets. However, there is always room for better action, and not everything in Europe's stone rules has to be adapted to, for example, an environment that has to be adapted to. ... hereinland. I think we must take very seriously what the insurance fund itself suggests, that it will be brought into the law of some kind of resources to ensure that the information this fund is based on is as best.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u115	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the labour laws, the method of loyalty and security, No. 46/1980, but the subject of the bill points to the working time of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. In recent years the provisional regulations in the law have been in effect that by agreement with the labour market partners, it is permitted to deviate from the law's terms of resttime and the night hours of employees who provide personal assistance to those in the user - controlled work on the basis of a law on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs, No. 38/2018. Was this not legalized in the above provisional principle, for it was important to consider how these matters would be best addressed to the future, where both those who use the service and those who provide it would be viewed as worthy of a change in the appropriate requirements of the law. The issue of temporary regulations fell out of force on April 1 and is recommended in the bill to replace the law with a new law. A respectable president. This bill suggests that, in the laws on how to handle the equipment, loyalty and security at work, it will be strictly granted that, in exceptional cases, the contract between the local community and the organisation of the person to whom it is appropriate to deviate from the general law on rest time and the night work of employees who provide personal assistance, as certain conditions are met. Among those expected to be, the need for the services of the person involved is expected to need longer periods of assistance from the same employee but remain within the minimum amount of rest required in the law, although the person in general does not need much assistance from a worker during the usual night work. In this regard, I believe it is important to note specifically that since this bill measures an exception from the minimum protection in the workers' rest period, the occurrence of events that fall below should be interpreted with the exception only when the conditions of the service require it for a longer or shorter time. I think it is important, especially in view of the lack of minimum rest time for employees in accordance with the laws of the law, this may harm them physically, as well as the possibility of an increased risk of failure with the unexpected consequences of the user's service. In terms of the bill, it is made clear that there should be always a way to organize the current activities so that they are included in the standard work programme under the law and that they should be in accordance with the minimum factor required in the IX. The section of the law, which leads to rest time, holidays and maximum hours. This is suggested in the bill to implement a regulation that will be more closely agreed on, such as how often the workers' work hours can be arranged in a way recommended by these requirements. It is assumed that such a directive will be carried out in collaboration with disabled persons, the European Union, the labour market organisation and the State's workforce, but it can be agreed with the above parties. Since there is new recommendations in national legislation, it is important to assess the time period in which it has been established as well as whether changes are needed. In view of this, the bill suggests that a new provision of the provisional law will be established in which it will be recommended that no later than the end of 2025 C.E. will begin a review of the current restricted access. In this regard, the work is expected to be carried out in collaboration with disabled persons, Icelandic rural society, the workforce and the government workforce. At the same time, the work is completed at the latest by the end of 2026. As such, it is assumed that as late as the end of 2025, there has been sufficient time to start an assessment with the above members, whether or not there is a need for changes in the rules recommended by the bill. A respectable president. Personal assistance is an important service that can make a difference in the circumstances of individuals who have to rely on such service, and all of us can agree with that. I suppose that all of us can also agree on the importance of the rules of resttime and other rules set regarding the working hours of individuals in the labour market can no less make a difference for individuals involved, wherever they are doing their jobs. Thus, it may be difficult for the middle road to follow where rights alone will not be affected by another person's rights. Despite the fact that some are likely to feel that they are out of line, the bill in my opinion contains a good step when it comes to allowing the exception in certain cases of the law's work period when it comes to employees who provide personal assistance. We need to be prepared, however, for there are obstacles that may arise, and it is therefore assumed in the bill that the aforementioned authority will be reviewed within a certain period of time. As we have seen, this authority has been nominated by the law's work period, which in some cases has failed, and therefore I am stressing the importance that the bill will now be completed at the spring council if at all possible. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u116	President. Two. says that no later than before the end of 2025 C.E. should be updated. Now it's 2022, so this is three and a half years, it should be finished at the latest by the end of 2026. This temporary law has been extended quite often. A committee study in December 2018, by permission of the president, stated: ▪ The Court takes the importance of the assessment of the work environment of employees who are acting in personal assistance and that a clear policy on the future work environment of the service will be established. That's what we're talking about, like, eight years at least seven, it's at the end of 2018. What's taking so long? The above is not even a preliminary law on the user-controlled personal service, which is now in the past year, in view of the number of contracts involved in the State. I'll scratch my head over this. Why is it getting so serious about these things? At the latest at the end of 2026? What's taking so long?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator is mistaken or am I mistaken? A senator. But what's being done with this bill is, in effect, a valid condition, a permanent setting in the law on the terms of the terms of this work period of the legislation. This was laid down in a provisional principle that was being published on April 1, so it is a positive step toward our being there because we have so far been extending a preliminary law of 9 in the matter of loyalty, and it is therefore very positive that we have actually shaped what that provisional law was to be met in the meantime. However, with regard to the year 2026 and the revision that we intend to do so, it is probably a matter of reviewing it earlier if, sooner than 2025 C.E. I can totally agree with that. A senator may find this a long time. But that preliminary principle really means that there will be a need for a review if necessary. But there is nothing that forbids it to happen sooner than before that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u118	President. No, I don't really think that there is something really being done that was a matter of preliminary action with a little more permanent, the enforcation that was no good, just a certain crap mix out of circumstances. And as I say, in a committee study of December 2018, it is said: Please make this a better and more close policy on the future working environment of this service. Today, this provision was only legalized, and it was always being extended. [[Up front.]] In fact, the highest. Minister, there are certainly extra conditions here, but the time frame is there, too. I don't see this as an update to justice, really. This is much closer to continuing to be a preliminary principle, now it is only under law, considering the working conditions at any given time. True, there are other factors to consider, but I don't see that the situation is particularly changing. [[The president calls.]] If so, I just didn't understand Minister background well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u119	V.E.G. President. We are here setting permanent rules with specific conditions that were not present in the provisional arrangement that fell from this April 1. That's why I say it's an improvement, because we're clarifying more clearly the conditions of contracts to be met so that they can be granted. The provisional principle set out in this bill, i.e. 2. g., is simply about to revise these conditions after a certain period of time. Therefore, this is not an extension of the provisional provision that was to be canceled in April 1. It's just wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u120	A respectable president. If the law is not followed, it may be of little value to set laws and discuss laws. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister a little, and I think it might be useful for us as we follow this evening in the discussion on this particular subject. A provision for temporary service to disabled persons with long - term needs is set aside in the year 2022 to provide a financial contribution to up to 172 contracts. In fact, if we look at the legal exposé of a bill to a complete layer, it clearly states that treaties will be increased progressively until 2022 and funds will be increased in steps until more than 170 contracts are agreed on in the whole country. Now in the year 2022, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers of how many contracts are already in effect and financed by the state this year and if they are not well over 17, whether there will be no quick response and whether the government will have anything to finance them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u121	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm sorry, but we don't have all these contracts. That's a fact. The number of them, if I remember correctly, is either 70 or 100. Hv. A senator has to forgive me for not remembering if it is. What I hope we can do is stop this hole, but I don't have any expectations or hopes for it to work this year, so I'm completely honest with it. This is sad, since the provisional principle in the law makes it very clear that 172 treaties are due. The main reason is that it has been a far greater cost on the basis of each contract than expected at the outset. So if I remember this correctly, we're putting down the money that was actually decided to do, but the contracts are too few where each one of them has been more expensive. It's a project that just needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u122	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister in many respects gives clear answers. Well, then we've got a deal that's about to happen. Two times as many as a law, and it's on the subject. Of course, I'm glad to hear it. Minister wants to make things right. In this context, I would like to intervene in the government's financial program. It states on page 19. In that case, donations for NPA contracts will be increased permanently by 320 at an hour. from 2020 to support the current treaties... The highest. Ministers come up here and state loud and clear that they will be funded in 170 or more contracts during the course of this financial strategy? Because this text does not suggest that it is merely expected to be funded by local agreements. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to pray to the highest. Minister to make this clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u123	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. A senator in the financial programme as a matter of course. A senator is expecting that the funds that really came into the budget of the year 2022 to one year will become permanent starting in 1923, which means that we have already financed the agreements that are currently in effect. This means that we will finance a number of contracts over the years. I'm usually a man of words, so I'm not gonna say it's gonna be done at some particular time. But what I'm going to say is that my goal is that we can achieve it as everyone, first of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u124	This is a five-year plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u125	A respectable president. We'll discuss the method of loyalty and the equipment of those who are involved in the service of those who enjoy them being made up of so-called MPA contracts. This is a relatively new form of service, but on a temporary scale, these so - called bone pay contracts have been under way. This has been a sharp line between the state and the local community, how it was handled, and is one of the points we should learn from. It's been thrown between state and country society, but it was decided initially that this should be financed by rural society and state. But the state says, "No, the money's over, and no more contracts will be made because it's not on the budget. " But there's nothing the country can do about it. You just have to do so well to provide the legal services and because the resources are close to those in need of these things, the community is required to care for these things, despite the fact that the State does not make its contribution. Before I make my second objection to what is being discussed, the equipment of those who perform this service, I would like to ask a minister: " How is it that a non - financial plan is being made?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. My answer is, in fact, that this is just not the 172 contracts that are in the provisional agreements. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson mentioned earlier. The reason is that each contract has been more expensive than expected, so the budget to be covered - this amount has been expressed, the amount has been guaranteed, but unfortunately it does not cover as many contracts as expected. So, of course, it is our responsibility to continue getting capital into this. I'd also like to say that now is the time for the work of a team that will hopefully yield in the next few weeks, hopefully days, which is going over the cost change as well. A senator only entered between a state and a country partner. I have high hopes that this report and its conclusion will be a good basis for continued conversation and cooperation between state and country members when it comes to this category. It makes clear that there is a major conflict in this category of local society that I watch in a way that states and rural societies will become on the basis of this analysis, which is the natural basis for this, taking a conversation about how to change and act. Then we can bring these matters to the best of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u127	Mr. President. The agreements have been more expensive, and society has been affected because the State has not brought its contribution into it. We now know the sentence that fell against Mosfellsville regarding this. However, regarding equipment, we know the terms of the collective agreements for about eleven hours, which is written into the collective agreements, and you're breaking the law if you're down to eight hours. Then you ask: Why are both laws and collective agreements being issued? Because we are going to do what is right for the others, we are going to bring them back to justice. It's a little complicated for me to watch this in this context. Somehow, I don't think there's a discount on the rights created. We know that many who serve this group are relatives and family members, who often live in the same home. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a discount from the laws that have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u128	V.E.G. President. Here we go. A senator may see the point in how to approach this matter. Granted, the basic rights laid out on employees'work hours are being cut off, but in exceptional circumstances they do. These are narrow conditions, which are then excluded from the principle. Therefore, it is also required that a certain amount of time should be completed on this basis, the experience on this basis, and it is important to do so. The bill is employed in good consultation with the labour market members and the care groups of disabled people. It is also important that we be able to secure the rights of disabled people who need personal assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u129	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A member of the workforce Guðmundur Ingi Guðn Guðbrandsson for the history of this bill. NPA, as is commonly called, has truly changed the lives of people who have been so fortunate to be among those who have been signed. This changes people's lives from being isolated, closed up, and limited in their ability to do things. We who live by the freedom of being able to do everything we want to do and cannot understand how much freedom they get into this kind of deal. But unfortunately, as we have seen here, these contracts are far too few, and all of this is badly financed. The cost is said to be higher, and I ask myself: " When this work was being done, these legislation work on this important matter, why wasn't there a better analysis of the cost and future plans on how the cost would be developed? V.E.G. A minister mentioned that analysis work was being carried on, as part of this cost falls, on the countryside, and there was an analysis to identify the cost split. All of this makes me think about it, when we're making laws here at the Council, how well we do that job. We're putting laws, in this case about this user-controlled, personal help, and by setting them laws, by making plans for a certain number to be supported for a particular time, we're giving people hope to gain freedom and to share fully in this society. If we haven't done enough work to do that, to make the analysis, and they plan how much this will cost, and we haven't agreed to add the money you need to add, then we're betraying these people. These are not people who have more than a million a month of sitting here making laws. No, they're people who are often confined to their homes, who can't go anywhere, people who are desperate. That's where we gave the hope we're betraying. The bill we're discussing here today about how to provide these people, who are on the contract, in exceptional circumstances where we go over a work-time limit that in other laws makes you ask - before I ask them I'd like to say that I can quite understand that there will be some incident where there may have to be something to do or do something, and it just can't be replaced with another employee to replace it so that the hours won't be too long. Of course, there will always be some exceptions. But I ask myself, " Why do we have to put it in the law that we can go over that time of work? ' Is it again because it is cheaper to pay the person for reviewing the time he may be working than to make sure there are enough employees to care for the person? The important thing in this matter is that we stand together here at the Generals to make sure that we stop breaking the promises we have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u130	A respectable president. Me and what. A senator agrees on the importance of these agreements. They change the lives of many and have benefited those who have received them. Then there are others who wait for such contracts, and it seems strange. Some of the budget seems to be just an open vector, and it's paid and paid. But then there are other things that depend on a particular amount, and they just say, "Stop, the money's done. " We saw such projects as starting jobs, which, of course, were needed. There was an estimated amount of money, but it went far beyond what was supposed to be done. But nothing was stopped. That assignment was merely to float. We also see work, such as everyone's work, which was good at last, but it's controversial in the now - to - be. It's also just an open vector. But there is no open vector for this service program that is so important to so many. You wonder: " How is it that some services depend on funding and others don't? That's what I think is quick because we want this group so well. He matters in the community, just like the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answers. It's just priorities and that's all it is. It was easy to find any billions, 1.5 or whatever, in order to have an extra ministry. But it was not to add, but to keep up with the people they had completed. Which is more important than the fact that some candidate gets a ministry or that people are given the freedom to live as part of the community? I know my priorities. It's clearly another one inside the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u132	A respectable president. It seems that it is by the very nature of many politicians to promise things that cannot be fulfilled. Consider the example of MPA. Free school is one of the highest levels. The other day, the prime minister mentioned. But should this be attributed to local societies? How are we going to do these things? When men and women put these things down, they must follow the budget. This is Iceland's leading statesman who throws it out like this: Free acting school. Successful bill, that's a great idea. Where is she? Where is it? Here we are creating resources that are relevant, but where are they? Then people come and tell local management and women? Why is school not from one year of age? Why has he not gone free? This also applies to NPA. Why aren't we giving our children a NPA deal? They have the right to do so according to the law. I know that NPA deals are expensive, they can cost from millions to tens of millions. But that's just what we have to deal with as a community. You're so surprised at how politicians talk and promise in their sleeves, and others are supposed to save it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator says about the work law, and we agree, we've managed to get the rights through the decades of struggle. One day they worked together, the darkness between them, and the weekends, but now we have a work period that makes them go outside, it's just illegal. [[The president calls.]] But now it's due to be discounted, just as it would be. One senator said: "It might get cheaper because there aren't enough people on duty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u133	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I think we agree very much on this. It is amazing how many politicians seem to be able to make endless promises about the other things, especially when someone else is going to pay them. It would be said something to us in our government if we could just make a promise and say: The prime minister will pay for this. Or: Hithv. The secretary of finance will pay for it. Would you like a share in Iceland Bank? Yeah, yeah, let's give, but he pays, not me. It just doesn't work, and it's necessary that there's always there to make sure that there's money to make a promise, whether it's a user-controlled, personal help, mental health, psychological services. It's very nice to promise all of this, but there's one thing to promise, which is to say, "Yes, let's do this. What I feel is worse is cheating, and that's what's already been done to the MPA deal. People were given false hopes that this was a better time to go, and they had freedom in front of them. But what happened? Oh, no, it was more important to have more ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u134	Madam President. This is a remarkable subject in the context of a law on the services of disabled people with long - term needs. That's where it starts. It stipulates user contracts, that a person is allowed to apply for a contract with a rural society or rural society that is assembled in a service area for the services and arrangements of support and assistance. It's in the law of 10. And 1 1. says, with permission of the president: ▪ An individual who has the right to the user - controlled personal assistance has a great and persistent need for help and service, such as the activities of daily living, household maintenance, social activities, education, and employment. - He's entitled to this service. In the 10th. provides the following key elements: To the type of user contracts, the requirements of the legislation and regulations on the staff's rights should be met, including for their equipment at work, pars. the laws on how to handle the work, the manner of loyalty and security at the workplace, which we are referring to the change in -- and other principles of the Icelandic labour rights and collective labour agreements. The same is true in 11. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error The NPA Member State shall carry the employers' responsibility for the staff and must see to it that the regulations and regulations of the personnel responsible for them are met, including: In regard to their work equipment, dr. Laws on how to handle the workplaces, No. 46/1980 and other Icelandic legal principles... It's two times over there. It's very clear. Now, however, there was a provisional law on the provision, the method of loyalty and security at work where it says: ▪ That an agreement between the labour market parties is permitted to deviate from the regulations of 53 and 56th. The law on rest time and the late working hours of the workers who serve individuals on the basis of Article 11. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M. 38/2018. It also stipulates that such agreements be taken from Article 1. 53. g. [...] so that the rest period will be reduced to the relevant staff, but the requirement should be taken as soon as possible to allow for the minimum rest time required by the worker on the aforementioned terms. This is the goal of a preliminary decision. A certain situation is being arranged. This temporary law is renewed and renewed, and it is encouraged to reevaluate plans for the future, or as stated in the 2018 Commission program, by permission of a president: ▪ The Court takes the importance of the assessment of the work environment of employees who are acting in personal assistance and that a clear policy on the future work environment of the service will be established. Now comes a minister who tells us that this is at least the beginning of this future work environment and that work on review of these conditions will be completed at the latest by the end of 2026. The problem is, let's start at the beginning, let's start with a 1st. 53. g. which is, by permission of the President: It should be arranged so that every 24 hours calculated from the beginning of the work day, employees should have at least 11 hours of continuous rest. Changes are now being made in ways that allow work time to last continuously for up to 48 hours, with certain requirements being met, are spoken of as 7 hours of rest during the night hours, not 11 hours, and not in 24 hours, but in 48 hours. During those two days or 48 hours, there would be 7 hours in the rest of the day and 7 hours in the rest of the day, not really every 24 hours, 11 hours, and 11 hours. 22 rest hours, however, and 14 rest hours are the difference. Their need may be interesting. It is said in this bill about this future arrangement, at least the beginning of it, with this huge return in rest time, you would say that the reason for the reason is an imbalance of the user's situation in the service, which could lead to mental and/or physical stress at the relevant level, such as insecurity or anxiety, would be the work period of employees who perform the service according to...◯ - if it should be arranged so that every 24 hours may be 11 hours rest. I'm sure of that, I'm absolutely sure that this case can be solved differently than setting the legal conditions that this employee can take over a 48-hour period just for a couple of seven-hour rest periods. It'll probably cost more than that. I think that's the problem. When we go to the expense, if that's the reason, without saying it plainly - I just can't believe it's the only solution in this situation. I can't believe it, that's not a chance. I think the main reason is that this solution is financially suitable, fitting into the excel, fitting into the account. Then it is interesting to consider the provisional terms of the law on user-controlled personal assistance that the State should have in charge of the contracts established by rural society with individuals entitled to these contracts. During 2018, as many as one quarter of the EU contracts as 80 contracts, 2019 103 treaties, 2020 125 treaties, 2021 150 contracts, and 2022 172. That's the end of it. There is nothing for the year 2023, 2024, or later. This year the temporary arrangement will run its course. Yet, there is a financial warrant, I saw, for continued government funding to the equations of the NAPA agreements, so it seems that this arrangement should be updated and continued, although the contracts have not been completed yet so I know. The problem is this is not up to 172 negotiations. The budget is not available for 2020 for 172 contracts. If that's not even money for 172 contracts, you think that if this law is approved and the employee has to be for 48 hours with two or seven hours rest, this contract may be cheap enough and simple enough to make the budget enough to increase the contract or something, I don't know. I don't see it. There is an assessment of the impact here which says that if the bill remains unchanged, the law will see that it will not affect the financial resources of the state, such as the impact on government economics or economics. But does that give you more contracts? I'd guess not, but maybe. I have no idea. At any rate, I'd think it would be an influence, and then more contracts could be financed for the same money. But they don't say that, so I have no idea. This is the root of the problem, the financing. It is not financed by the number of contracts required by law to be financed. That's exactly the strangest thing, like what. paritaprevir Einarsson came in earlier, when it legally states that there are so many contracts to be financed, just as it does in the law that people have the right to earn unemployment when they lose their jobs and when they earn unemployment. But for some reason, people don't get their NPA deals because the money's finished because they didn't get legal clearances for enough contracts. But even if it's given just a large amount of money to a non-employment insurance fund, when that money's gone, people don't stop getting unemployment insurance. They continue to receive them, and at the end of the year, they are looking for extra funds to correct that amount, so that they are real sources of money based on the amount of unemployment paid. It's not done here. I don't know anything in the law that explains why it's done in one way, but different like that. with unemployment insurance or disability insurance, basic pensions, etc., because in the constitution they can't pay anything unless they have a budget for it in financial or financial funds, and in general they should be looking for financial resources ahead of time, but not afterward as they are doing. I understand, however, that it is more convenient, there is a set time savings in the fact that we have set laws on specific rights and that it can only be assumed that the Congress will finance their rights. I understand that very well about unemployment insurance. It's very simple, firm simplicity in just applying for it afterwards, at the end of a year when it is known what the amount will be instead of applying a number of times for additional sources that may rise and raise, and always have to spend the duration of the council trying to counter a new financial bill on increased legal resources. But if that's the case, you can do the same with the NPA agreements. If the cost of them becomes greater than expected, they are searched at the end of the year because it is the right of the people to get this contract, as it was announced in Mosfellstown. This problem applies to a lot of other laws, the subsidiary laws, such as, but I can't figure out who decides or what laws decides to be so different about the budget. I don't understand. I don't really understand who's authorized to say, "No, we don't pay anymore. But sometimes we say, " Yes, we keep paying. ' Constitutionally, the answer should always be: ▪ No, we don't pay more than that. That's the rule, that's the constitution. But this is not done in certain cases, and in fact without a warrant, I think it is just a certain understanding. But regardless of our understanding, it really is a violation of the constitution. It's not complicated. On that basis, I think we need a clear answer to that from the stewards, from the Ministers, from the Minister of Ministers, from the Secretary of finance, why it's so different. Why is the Constitution sometimes followed and sometimes not? And why, and that's one of the biggest questions, when certain rights have been passed in the law, why aren't they worth it? Why is it not the obligation of the government to provide financial resources to bring up the laws established by the General Assembly? Why is it possible for a minister to submit a budget to a council that doesn't bring up a law made by the General? I don't know what Secret Service has to do with it. This bill or this case here is, in fact, a very good example of a bigger problem we're dealing with on the budgets and funding of the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u135	A respectable president. Because I am now relatively new to the council, and I have often searched the floor. paritaprevir Leví Björn on knowledge and information, I had hoped that he would be able to instruct me about the nature of the arrangement. But he kind of said at the end that he didn't know any more than I did why it was like this, so something's going on here about the budgets that are beyond our understanding, anyway we do. Senator. We don't quite understand. What I'm having a bit of a hard time dealing with is that budget is law, but society's budget isn't law. There's a big difference. The Kingdom can say: "No, it's not for financial reasons. The coin's over. We just put in what we were going to spend on this, and that's why there's no more to be done. But this is impossible for societies to do. Farmers have to do so well to shoulder the duties they have laid on them, to run school even if their rural society has become filthy, to run a nursery even though there is no money for it, to work with a teacher, and to keep it all going. But for some reason, it seems that the State could behave in other ways. I'm just having a hard time handling this, and I think I'd like to have a little more discussion with why. A senator in charge of this, the fact that there is a legal agreement in each way, and I don't understand why there is a authority to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u136	President. No, in spite of a little more experience, not much, just one term -- you're learning more and more here all the time. In fact, I'm relatively recently puzzled up, including and for the review of the psychisation services and the National Service also, to see in front of man the Ministers, the Ministers responsible -- the highest. Social and workforce minister is responsible for these laws, even the Minister's responsibility, he's private, and he's really a minister. It's not so-called multi-organized administration here in Iceland, where all the Ministers share responsibility for all this noise. There is one minister here responsible for this law, but not somehow funding it, to say, "To perform these laws which the Council committed to me, I need so much money." And a minister needs to come to the council and say, "I need 100 million for this, and explain why when we ask. But no, it doesn't work that way. He goes to the secretary of finance, who is not responsible for these laws, and the secretary of finance says, "No, you only get 80." I don't care how you handle it, you're just gonna have to do these songs for 80 million. But then in the law on unemployment, it doesn't matter. Then it's just about that.This is where you get 50 billion for it, so go ahead and we'll talk about it later. - This is so weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. We're talking about how we're doing things because we want to do so well for those involved. This is a group needing services that are necessary, and these are being thrown away from Heródes to Pílatus regarding services. But I find it hard to accept the fact that there is a discount on the acquired rights, and we know that it is not the first time that the services of disabled people are being performed. It's been done for years after the rules that have been set. We are now trying to implement something called a better work period. It is a work - time emergency because it is thought that it is normal for people to reduce their jobs under heavy pressure, especially out of their day - to - day work, and that they need to meet those groups. It's going the wrong way, as far as I'm concerned. They're putting up unnecessary loads, I think, on groups that are in relatively difficult work. I feel that rather than bring this group up under added stress, they should do the opposite, rather than try to increase the number of shifts within the day than, as mentioned, in 48 hours. Then you may have 14 hours at rest instead of being given the usual schedule of shift work or the usual work hours requirement, you should have 22 hours, 11 hours of rest a day. It's not what. A senator agreed that what has been accomplished is being interrupted?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u138	President. Yes, exactly. Even during this seven - hour period of rest, there are two distractions. I don't know, maybe it'll take a long time for the interruption from the rest to one end. However, this continuous seven - hour rest will not be continuous because it can be interrupted twice. This is very interesting because at the council we are accepting laws that give people certain rights; social rights, human rights, and a variety of services required by people. Yet, in spite of all the well - being and willingness to do well, they are restricted by financial rights. They just say, "No, we're not gonna finance these rights. " And then somehow we're indirectly making that decision here at the council, I think, when we're accepting funding, we're cutting rights because of other laws we've approved. I say indirectly because we don't usually see each capital spread which is being approved. Suppose there are 50 billion in some topic field, we often do not see how they are distributed to individual legal columns in the topic field. We don't see that this code of laws costs 100 million, but it's only being financed by 80, which means rights and that there's some explanation for that, e.g. that we have improved our efficiency through digital services or something that reduces the cost, which is just great, awesome. But we don't know when we're going to vote on budgets where we don't have to, especially in the law where it's decided that once the budget is complete, we just don't give our rights any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u139	A respectable president. The other day, I attended a very interesting seminar held by the Quantum Community under the heading Young People at the Endpoint. It discussed the fact that today 144 individuals under the age of 67 are saved in nursing homes for the elderly instead of being allowed to live independent lives in their own home. We're talking about people as old as 25 who live in a nursing home. It was especially heartwarming to hear Margrét's experience, Sigríður the Guðmundsdóttir. She's 59. She was diagnosed with MS a few years ago and now she lives in a nursing home in a room of 24 square feet. She said: "I ended up here after a hospital stay and waited for a year, and I received no service. The nursing home was the only option. It's not a life for a 59-year-old woman. Alexandra Sif, daughter of Margrét Sigríður, also spoke up. She said: "We begged for help, but the message we have received from day one is that we can only help her ourselves. Every time you ask for help, you get to hear, "Don't you help her?" Aren't you helping her too? Of course we are. At the same time, though, we do not have the opportunity to be just a family. That's what Alexandra Sif said. Let's go over some numbers. Eurostat's 2019 report shows that 8.9% of Iceland's noncooperative relatives, microorganisms, or the elderly. In comparison, the European average is 4%. It's 8.9% in Iceland, but Europe averages 4%. In all the other North countries, the ratio is less than 3%. That's 8.9% in Iceland. These are the kind of numbers you'd rather not believe. It's such an unacceptable situation. ▪ It's not a life for a 59-year-old woman. This is the cost of military action. This is the cost of the money policy that is being thrown into the hands of disabled people. Since the transfer of the group to the countryside in 2012, the service has been unfashionable. Now, I'm told, I understand, it's 859.9 billion. every year in the seminars. It's not possible. We must do so much better if we are to call ourselves a social welfare society. It costs money, and it calls for a change in financial priorities, and it calls for real travel politics, that politicians have the courage to practice real travel politics, and it costs money. A respectable president. Some years ago, 2018 or 2019, the General Assembly approved a new law on serving disabled people with long - term needs. What joy that brought! Ásmundur Einar Daðason was then the social and equal minister, and he said that this was a violation of a magazine in the affairs of disabled people, that the day the law took effect would no doubt have to be stuck in the mind of the many who had for many years fought for the survival of this arrangement to be self - determinationd by the rights of disabled people. That is what he said, the self - sensed rights of disabled people who need much support to enjoy themselves in society and who have been actively involved in it and for the most part on an equal basis. That's what the Minister said then. I don't know if a minister would have doubted that just a few years later, the situation would be what it is today. As I studied earlier in contrast, it is very clear in the provisional law of services to disabled people with long - standing needs that during the 1818 and 222022 period, a government fund gives a donation to a set number of contracts. By the year 2022, the contracts were to be up to 172. This as far as that is, let's be absolutely clear that it actually contains the promise that the government will finance this number of contracts. In fact, that situation is about that position if you don't apply for so many contracts. That's very clear in legal evidence. It says, as I went over earlier, the rate of the contracts will increase to 2022. The amount of money will be increased in steps until more than 170 contracts are agreed on in the whole country. So it is clear in the bill's report that the legislature and the executional power, the state fund, do not have an example of this. It's not a peak. 172 treaties are not maximum, and I don't think anyone would even think to interpret them that way either. But now we are in the year 2022, and according to the data I have acquired since my speaking with the highest degree. There are about 90 contracts now, or at least in December, and I don't think they've increased since then, in the light of the underdevelopment of this operation. The government's budget shows that contributions from NAPA deal are increasing permanently by 320 million. K. from 2020 to support the current contracts, which are then about 90. However, the law simply states that the government fund should provide up to 172 contracts, and it does not say in the law that the budget should be given as long as the cost is manageable. There's nothing like that in the law. At the top. Minister had a word change earlier. First, I asked him if there would be no guarantee that this law would be carried out and that this year the government's budget would provide 172 contracts. The answer was that a minister did not hope for it, perhaps thinking that it was realistic. Then I asked him if he could, however, make clear promises to the people out there that these 172 contracts, as specified in the law, would be at least 172. funded at the planned time of this financial agenda. Keep in mind that we're talking about a five-year plan, this is a plan that covers 2,023 a.m. We are here talking about a clear text that targets the number of contracts funded in 2022. But I have to admit that I'm so half behind it, as soon as I've let go of the word, that I asked that question. I felt that I was actually making ministers too easy for me, of course, that number of contracts would be funded at the time. We're talking about five years. We in politics must demand that more than just these contracts be financed during the course of the day, so in view of the number of people on the wait list and the desire to receive this service, and in the light of what I mentioned earlier throughout this number, even young people, down to 25 years of age, in nursing homes. But no, Minister didn't even trust himself to give the General and the public clear promises that 172 NPA contracts would be financed during the financial programme. He did not even trust him to promise that during the last year of that terms, these treaties would be financed. This is incredible. I don't know exactly what to say. What kind of politics is this government running here? Let's keep one thing in mind, too. During these last days, we have considered a financial program, which is a very narrow budget and is expected to be completely exorbitant in most lawsuits. I urged earlier today that financial plans may only be put on ◯hold, just because ministers have actually been so presumptuous -- well, it's as if they're not exactly doing what this program says. The Minister of Wood is, for example, a minister of the law. You have promised that large amounts of donations will be used to build up your house. The Minister of Justice has promised that the expenses due to the arrival of refugees will be greatly increased. These are just the two examples that came to mind, and I think they're more. But what does it tell us about the balance of power in this government? For the sake of this programme, does not a social minister even see to it that he makes promises and guarantees that this number of contracts will be financed during this ideal period? - I have so little time left. I'm just gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u140	A respectable president. There are some things I would like to talk to you about. A senator about what he went through here. He mentioned even. Privacy and well-being political. Somehow, I feel like almost all political parties are turning into a gang like this before the election. Everyone's making a promise to the other and this thing that can be counted under some scrum, because we all want to, I think, do well, or at least I don't doubt that it's in us trying to stand up for one another. But for some reason, it always seems to be a mess. I think this is a good example, these are striking numbers, seeing 172 contracts praised, but they're only 90. So we're talking about 82 unrecognized contracts. Of course, it's just amazing numbers, to see that this is not being done better than it is. What sad stories! A senator tells us here about young people who live in nursing homes who cannot go to their homes, cannot find themselves in a situation they really have the right to live as citizens in this community. Because we're talking about priorities, I'd like to pray only. A senator to express himself further on this: How should we prevent the statement that has been previously accepted?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Of course, NPA is one of the most important rights legalized for disabled people in this country. There was nothing for no reason that people rejoiced greatly when the law came into force here. But it is incredibly serious to give people a false hope. In the last summer, local societies submitted information to Social Affairs on a waiting list for NPA. Reykjavíkurborg sent the information that there are 28 candidates on a waiting list. The total cost of this contract would then be 2021, approximately 824 million. This would mean that there would then have to be 206 million in order to cope with the problem just to delete this waiting list in Reykjavík - 206 million. In contrast, because of the failure of bank sales, there were 700 million people. So if e.g. Those sales advisers who were calling their friends - didn't get some of them, they themselves, even buying? If we had just saved these fees to them from government funds, it would have been possible to get a flow this year from the cost of spending the waiting list in Reykjavík. I just mention it as an example of priorities and the funding involved. The problem isn't that there isn't any money. The problem is just the priorities of this right management.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u142	A respectable president. Hv. One senator says that the problem is not that money is missing. I'm going to agree with him on what he says about this fee that goes out of the state funds to the stock market, 700 million to the stockbrokers. We have many of our children who are suffering from anxiety, and they cannot pay for a psychological service of 2,25,000. Time. To push the budget through, so the government would get this blessed part to relax a little bit, they approved 250 million in the Psychological Service. We wanted 900 million, but we got 250. In addition to these 700 million, we can see that the Ministers now cost quite a bit. All the funds involved would have been possible to be used in services to the worst in this society, including the U.S.A. for individuals requiring MPA contracts. Here there were hundreds of millions in a service that would have to be published by the city of Reykjavík if the money came from the state. This is the same thing in my community, and it's still missing in another hundred million for people waiting on the waiting list for the NPA contracts, so it's all over. We have disabled individuals everywhere, and we need them and we have a responsibility to care for them. I don't understand that this is the way it is being done, and I don't understand that there is something to be done better with this category at the expense of the employees involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u143	A respectable president. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. Senator. I'm still trying to get my arm around this thing. I was a little shocked earlier to learn that a minister would not trust to state here and promise that this funds would be granted during the election season. It is so clear that this year's 172 contracts were to be financed. And that the government is really -- that they haven't come together yet or that a minister didn't trust himself to make a promise about this, I think it's something so -- I just don't know. Of course it's all about priorities. The money's ready. We're accepting budgets for the other, and this here, which is much bigger, but it's about something much more trivial than what we're talking about here today. What we are discussing today is about people's freedom and their right to lead a decent life. It's worth every cent. I just hope that the Minister and the government will see their faces, and I hope that this financial program, which has come up here and been discussed in the last few days, is just some kind of April, because it's totally shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his first speech. What I took to account in his speech are these striking figures over people who would like to live their own lives, live on their own roads, but stay in their nursing homes, where, ironicly, then the second round. spoke of having a place for people who would prefer it rather than the circumstances in which they live. What I'm wondering is what I'm looking for, what I'm looking for. A senator at this cost. There is always talk about the other and this gain too much, and it is certainly said that governments are attacking some change and something else that will not be reality because it is not financed. But I wondered if it's obvious in this position that by bringing people the service they have rights to -- that's not just that they have to put more money in it, they save money in other places, and they'll actually be a normal distribution of this. I'd love to get the senator's opinion on this. Then there is another one, perhaps in the highest language. Minister here, who I've reassigned regarding the cost and funding of these contracts that have been decided on. It speaks of appointing task groups and the highest. According to a minister, they will continue to try to find the money and the like. But is it that complicated? Is this not just so simple that it is a service to be financed by governments? Is it more complicated than that? What conclusion is there that a group of people are about to reach someone else, but that they simply need to give more money under financial laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u145	Mr. President. I can agree with these views. It's like in the social security system that if you have any rights, they're funded. In fact, if people have a right to unemployment improvement, they are actually funded, no matter what the temporary labour insurance fund is. I don't quite understand why this is supposed to be something different with NAPA deals. These are rights that people have been guaranteed by law. Now there is a very interesting lawsuit in the Supreme Court where it is actually being tested whether rural communities have the authority to put the code on the number of MPA contracts provided. It will be fascinating to observe the outcome. In the end, though, there is something - the State must stick to it so that its communities can perform this service. When I'm at the highest. As a minister, overemphasizes over the value of things and as a result the services are not funded, there is something that ends with being the headache of the rural communities, such as 8,939 billion compromises the operation of services to disabled people, whom I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That's exactly what I did. A senator used, the highest. A minister used earlier too. It's as follows: a limp to business. I've always thought this interesting phrase when it comes to fast, like a voodoo. A senator says that a government service should be performed according to law. You will wonder, then, in comparison with other Kingdom services, such as school services and such. There's also talk of this about public transportation, and there's always talk of loss of business in the Bus. I thought to myself, " Is there a loss in basic school business? ' Is the loss of the hospital business? Is this a business we can really be talking about some loss on? Do we expect this to be a lucrative business? And that is what reflects so much on what it really is that governments are financing and what it isn't, where we see where the emphasis really is. I wondered: " I imagine a school - related child. This has a legal obligation to attend school, and the rulers have an obligation to give it a place in school. If the manager just said, "No, just heard there's no more space, it's full, it's just sorries--how could it work? It just doesn't make sense and it's nothing like that, it's not done. Why is that? Why do governments allow themselves to do so in this issue? Hv. A senator here cites unemployment benefits that are another fine example. It's not that if you're entitled to unemployment, you're just saying, "No, you're not. There's no money. Isn't this a perfect paradox?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u147	A respectable president. Yeah, I think that's exactly the most obvious context we've got here. I just remind you that the law for services to disabled people with long - term needs is law that, like social security laws, guarantees that people are right. The law says, by permission of the president: During the induction period, the state's fund provides the following number of contracts for user-controlled personal assistance, which should be arranged through the local financial budget of a member of which a certain share of the sum of contracts, based on local applications: in 2020, due to up to 172 agreements. The law is very clear, and there are no reserves. There is no requirement for that if the cost of the ministry is manageable. There's nothing like that. These are just rights people have, and they're meant to be guaranteed by this provisional principle. We are in position to have a minister here -- it is not just that he accepts in this hearing that these laws will be broken in this year, but he cannot even promise and give credit and political credit to these financing contracts this year will be followed for the next five years - the next five years. This is incredible. This isn't welfare politics, it's just the same old money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u148	Madam President. We are here dealing with so - called user - controlled personal assistance and the working conditions of the people working on it. Used by personal assistance is a form of service based on independent life ideologies. It is designed to enable disabled people to determine where they live and with whom they live. The ministry is so important that disabled persons control themselves for how they are organized, for what assistance they receive, for when assistance is being done, for where, and for whom. This is a service rendered on the basis of Article 11. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M. 38/ 2018, but the law says, by permission of the president: ▪ An individual who has the right to the user - controlled personal assistance has a great and persistent need for help and service, such as the activities of daily living, household maintenance, social activities, education, and employment. The support should be organized on the basis of the user and under the management and management of the user. If the user is having difficulty caring for the job management because of his disability, he should have the right to help her. Thus, it is a highly specialized and, in many respects, reasonable that there will be special conditions for this service. This is a job where an employee's partner and employer often develops a personal relationship. Understandably, then, the work needs to be somewhat different from normal jobs. I'd like to mention the middle man who supervises this service and helps disabled people search for and attend and direct this service, which is the MPA Center. The NPA website says, with permission of the president: ▪ THE center is a collaborative community owned by disabled people. The Central Center assists disabled people and their caregivers in the extramarital and administrative activities of having personal assistance (PA). This involves not just accounting services but so much more. The NAPA centre works according to the ideologies of independent life. MPA is actually a knowledge company where disabled people gather and communicate their knowledge to each other. Then I'd like to refer to what's on the bill we're discussing here today. You see, in the current labour laws, no. 46/1980 was in force for the preliminary regulations to April 1 that, with an agreement between the labour market partners, I stress it, if permitted to depart from certain legal requirements for resting hours and the night working hours of employees who render user-controlled personal service. It also states that if such agreements are removed from other laws of the law, which tell of the rules of rest time so that rest period will be shorter than the law, according to the fact that the workers will receive as soon as they receive the same period of rest as the minimum required in the arrangement. The government's work programme should then give a review of this agreement. As noted earlier, this law was valid for April 1 and the bill we are discussing here today is actually extending this exception. A bill report says, with permission from the President: The World Health Organization (formerly the Ministry of Social Affairs) was put together with the Committee and the Committee to Work as the then social and child - care minister. - And I'm highlighting it. The members who represented the Committee and staff are the Allied Union of Iceland, the Alliance of Colleges, the BSRB, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the National Institute of Development, the Union of Iceland, the Association of Professional Affairs, the Office of Work and the Bank of Social Affairs, as well as the Department of Social Affairs. Since the subject of the bill was worked in agreement with the above parties, there was no reason to present the bill specifically in government consultations, especially since consultations with the aforementioned groups with the development of the bill have just been completed, and the time has now little to contribute the bill to the Council of the World Council at the spring council of 2022. Those who listened carefully have likely noticed that this list is missing the MPA centre. Two. The bill goes on to say a new provisional principle, with the permission of the president: No later than the end of 2025, a review will be made at 53 p.m. b in collaboration with disabled persons, the European Union, the work force of the labour market and the government's work programme, and this work will be completed at the latest by the end of 2026.156. There is no mention again to the NPA centre itself, the person with the highest knowledge of survival, the needs and interests of both the services and the staff it provides. So we see here a bill directly relevant to the rights of people working with NPA, since it has not been contacted by the NPA centre itself and it has not been considered necessary, and the bill does not agree because it has been cooperated with anyone other than the NPA centre. This is the main focus of my attention when I read this bill and cause a measure of anxiety. There is also another major distraction in all the discussion of the user - controlled personal assistance that has been repeatedly mentioned here today, with regard to the cost. It's 5 mg. 1 1. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M. 38/2018, the article on which this service is based, is responsible for the implementation of the help and should set up additional rules in consultation with the staff of disabled persons or the association of disabled persons. It has been mentioned, as I said, so as not to be deeper in this year, that the main problem with the implementation of the MPA contracts is a problem that, of course, is not to be introduced for the first time in connection with many good things approved by law and for any reason, this is particularly appropriate for the progress of welfare services. V.E.G. A minister was asked earlier today - and he shows up here as soon as I start talking about him - into the funding of these contracts. Answers to the highest. The minister was on the way to the situation simply because the agreements have not been financed. That's the confirmation of the Supreme Court. Minister to our mission, as he puts it, to continue accessing capitals into this. That's when they said the highest. Minister, and now I quote his words, even though I have read them in written text, by permission of the president: The work force, hopefully resulting in the next few weeks, hopefully days, which is going over the expense exchange [...] It is quite clear that there is a huge intervening conflict in this community group... V.E.G. Minister, commander. Government. It's not that complicated. In order to finance things that have been decided on by the citizens of this country, it is simply necessary to finance them. I can't figure out the conclusions that any group of people should reach other people but simply that they need to be financed. It'll take more money. The cost is at hand. That's not the problem. It's an old story and a new story, and it has even a difference between state and rural society. To do with the evil practices of the government, to transfer an assignment to the rural communities, or to assign them new tasks with no sense of capital. It is not the local government that decides to accept these assignments. They are related to this by law made by the General of the United States. So there is no other solution to the financing problem than simply giving more money. The lack of funds that must be given shows that the promise and will may be more in word than on a table. Mr. President. It was an outcast from what I wanted to say primarily about this bill. It's, I think, absolutely undisputed that the MPA deal was a huge step in our society and, of course, wonderful that we've come to that place, at least In word, there is no doubt that this is a basic right, i.e. Despite the challenges, the possibility of living a life of its own. This independent belief is rooted in the civil rights struggle of disabled people in the United States around 1970 C.E. In the state of California, a group of disabled students joined themselves and formed an English - language company, with the permission of presidents, ◯Center for Independent Living, in my own casual translation: A central center for independent life. One founder of the struggle, Roberts Roberts, developed polio as a child that led to his being deeply motorized. It was used both in wheelchairs and in ventilators. However, he wanted to go to college, but at that time, it did not seem likely, it was too complicated, a lack of access and service. But Ed did not give up, and after a great battle, he had the opportunity to hire, train, and fire his own staff. From this time on, the ideologies of independent life sprang up. To think that it is a relatively new idea that all people have the right to live independent lives. But since then, ideologies have spread throughout the world, affecting the development of rights and services to disabled people and today is the basis for a strong international movement known as an movement of independent life, in English, the Independent Living Need, by permission of the president. Again, I have allowed myself to go by a little bit of a bypass to what I really wanted to say about this bill, and that is, unfortunately, the characteristic of this series of events: lack of consultation. It is not a communication with those who should clearly be needed to communicate. Other than that, I have no comment on this bill, but I expect that this lack of communication will be added in later stages to the development of the bill at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u149	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to correct a set of laws on how to handle equipment, loyalty and security in the workplace, the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. This is the best part. Finally, we're finally about to finish this. This has been, if I may call it that, kind of a bastard in the past few years. Every year, when this case has come on the table, a man's job has been invented, and I'll admit that when I first heard that this case was coming on, I'm not even putting it off for a year? Happily, we are not now doing so. But what may be boring about this case is that it is a little late because there was an exception in the laws on how things were handled, loyalty and security in the workplace, were in force, and by 31 March 2022, it fell out in force today on April 1, and it was not an April but entirely fact, as is now worse than ever. I've been studying this matter today, and I have to say just as it seems to me that the matter is well worked and cooperates with both those who are to be used in the ministry and also with their companions. That's great. That's great. If you look at the whole issue, this is the working time for the staff who are helping these individuals. The NPA assistants are about 245 people, and in total, they may be close to 300 people with NPA organisations. What may be most important in many ways, as shown in the bill, is that most of these jobs are probably women. They point to the bill that according to Haggis of Iceland, 18,400 women were active against 5,300 men in health and welfare. However, there is something that was a bit of a disagreement at the time, which was the flexibility, that the person could even work 24 hours or even longer because the circumstances of those who use this service vary so differently. But what we need to consider when discussing the subjects of those using NPA is that there are limitations. It's over there, as I say, maybe 250, 300 assistants. At the same time, however, there are nearly 200 people who have been locked up in a nursing home or in their home and who are not receiving this service. I say for my part: It must be one of the scariest things you can get into, that you need user - controlled personal help, that you are in a position where you can't get anyone to feed you, but that has only two choices; that you stay in a bed that you can't help; and trust friends and relatives to help, or be saved in a nursing home long before you are old. At a nursing home, people are expected to be 67 years old and older. Sadly, though, there are much younger people who have been saved in there, and I guess they are already approaching 200 people. We have been discussing financial programs recently, and it was found that it is estimated that some 320 million people are being joined by this class, which is only to ensure the present state. What may be the most tragic in this regard is that both the NAPA and the Micro-Community Coalition and others are compelled to do a lawsuit with their rural communities simply to demand the right of people for granted that they get the services that they have the right to their communities. But rural society wants to host this, and some societies feel that they simply cannot enforce these contracts. And this, of course, is a big flaw in this service that, with the contract that was expected at the time by annual increase, it seems completely stopped now, and some rural societies do not trust in this and believe that they have done a very significant share in contracts with the State. But it has to say just as it is that the state has to make a good impression on this matter because there is in no way that people today can be invited to be imprisoned in their home or in a nursing home. We have an example of the requirement of an individual and a plea year after year, which was locked up in that environment. I just say to all of us that none of us would want to be forced to go to an institution or be stuck or imprisoned in their home. When this matter comes to the welfare committee, hopefully we'll do it well and call the members of the association who have participated in making it. We know that it is also included in this review code, if I recall correctly, 2025, and then hopefully it will become more evident how these people's rights are true and how they work because what may be and has been the greatest challenge in this is how different the individual needs are. As a result, it tells itself that what works for one person in this regard, e.g. with labour management, failure to be suitable for others, and as a result, there must be an enormously flexible frame around it. We believed that at the time, and we rejoiced with fear, and I don't think anyone has captured as much as the former supreme. Social Affairs Minister Ásmundur Daðason Dedon, when negotiations were made on NPA issues, and we believed and thought them, and they all thought that we had started now, and now we wouldn't stop. In effect, the requirement was that a gradual increase in the number of contracts would be taken care of once and for all. The fact, however, speaks for itself. These contracts are mainly involved and have been mainly here in the Great Reygian region because they seem to be, in the way these contracts are completed, that smaller communities do not trust to accept these contracts, making it possible that there are individuals out of the country who are far less inclined to take advantage of the contract and even have to move into this contract. It tells us that we need to solve that matter and I believe that there shouldn't be much problem. But as we have seen, and also seen in a financial program, all financial resources are to be expected only to maintain the present position. It's completely unpleasant because it's just sending in someone next to this system: you can't get in. We were aware of this today, and we were in the Supreme Court in the parking lot. A person's waiting six years, going through the entire judicial system, seeking justice, and finally receiving justice did not benefit him because the person was dead. So I say: Of course, it's a very serious matter when these sick people think they're number one to get this service, but then they're just put on the wall and said, "No, that's all. That person will not know when he or the next ten or the next 100 will be. We have this case to solve here, which is great, working conditions, and the work conditions so that the work environment is legal, that everything is as it should be, and everyone's taken care of it, now things are just ready, but at the same time it's said, "No, we can't do more, it's just enough." But this is not enough. It is not enough until all who want that service have received it. It is so often said about their worst cause that they are so few. Yet nothing is done. In this case, these are few individuals. This is not an insurmountable obstacle. We're here at the same time giving that kind of money a discount. We do not hesitate to place millions, more than these 320 million here, in the private media, such as, for example, a little strange, relative to the name, that private media can get government grants. We have placed money without hesitation, with no spark, more than 11 billion in a sample of Covid. It's just fine. But if we can afford it then we must afford to make sure once and for all that the worst in our society in this, in terms of disability, and need this service to receive it. She is entitled to them, and they are to have her. We're supposed to take it into account and show justice and equality, and we're going to have to stop saying, "You get it, but you're not getting it. Why does this one get this one, but the other one doesn't? Yes, because he was in the right place in the order and the other in the wrong place in the row. As a result, the person who is in the wrong place is told: Now you just have to choose, to be locked up in your home, and not to get the service, or to go to a nursing home among older people, and to stay in that prison, perhaps 50, perhaps younger. I think that we can all claim here at the councilroom that if one of us, whoever it was, we would not accept it, ever, would be in that situation. We would insist that we have the right, just as everyone else does, to live independent lives, have the right to receive personal assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u150	Madam President. I saw myself being moved to come up here for a moment. A senator. I would say that he was happy to see how much consultation had been made in the processing of the bill. It was the subject of my earlier talk, which I made sadly for an empty room, until the highest. A minister came and honored me with his presence, that in the processing of the bill--it was done in a group, I had the list here, I would not take it with me in a pontta - there was no consultation with the NPA center which is the emulation which has the most knowledge and the greatest experience in this system and the best insight, I would keep, in the interest and experiences of users and those who do this service. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who has quite a knowledge of this category, whether he does not believe that there would have been a reason to consult with the NPA centre in the processing of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u151	A respectable president. I think the MPA Center has been able to do this through the Corporate Community. I know more things than this, those who are in charge of the NPA centre are well connected into the Microcreature Alliance. I have no doubt that if the Microcolleague Act had written down on this contract, it would have been in good cooperation with the MPA Center. And I know that these members have not agreed on anything, except to be absolutely certain that those who are supposed to use the service and those in the NPA groups have been allowed to come in on and get their views involved. When the matter goes to the welfare committee, I will, of course, want to get that person involved, and then I'm sure they'll see to it that someone from the NPA is coming and will be able to answer how they've been involved, whether or not they've got all their business to see if they're okay with it. It seems to me that in this case these are specific requirements and have been submitted at the time. The matter has been rolling around in the system every year since I arrived at the council. We took on this MPA case for the first year, and I firmly believe that they were involved, but I don't believe it fully until I get them to say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u152	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. How comforting it is to know that he believed that in some way this counsel took place through the Qualification Alliance and at the wind! A senator will, through his work on a welfare committee, ensure that he/she will consult with the NPA centre. I feel very likely that they will receive very well, and I am very grateful for being. A senator on that committee. There's another reserve I'd like to hit with this consultation and wait. A member of the body also has his eyes and ears open as further discussions take place on the committee. Sometimes it is said that consultations took place, that there was some cooperation, but it does not necessarily show what came up, whether it means that everyone was happy with the results. That's not really true. It may be less pronounced when such issues are handled, as is the case that is being handled in a group. Some product, however, came out of that work that was not involved in the confidentiality, since it was now all part of the story. But it makes it possible that we, who are considering this from outside, who are trying to study the matter and make sure that the work is all exemplary, do not really see a special attitude and a vision of each party, who was still sitting there at the table. We don't know what went on with those meetings and what went on there. I want to thank you. A senator for his work on a welfare committee and encourages him to ensure that the discussion will lead to real listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I understand why I'm worried about you too. I started with Peter Berlandal Commission on reimbursement of social security. One could see that this and the other had been consulted by a dissociative organization, that they had been consulted. But the discussion was simply to call the person to the place and make them sit at a table and say, "This is the way it should be. Then it was written that a consultation had been made. This is what I know of all the jobs I've been doing on committees like this. The work was terrible. Actually, they were making a showcase. I hope, and I think, I believe that such practices are over. I'd be surprised if I wasn't. I can tell by the way these contracts are that it is clearly being tried to achieve what was going on at the time to ensure that those who are working at that service have all rights, that there is no danger of being violated. There's BSRB and ASI. that's because they're creating a whole different environment than they usually do in a labour market. It's a whole different work, a whole other environment, a whole other service, and it needs this flexibility. It was this flexion, and it seems to me that they've reached a certain distance. I will follow the fact that there's an intermediate barrier like the NAPA users want and those who are in charge of the NAPA, the Microcolleancy Alliance, and Developmental Help, that they're right to be happy. If it is, I'm cool with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u154	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for history. Where it is. A senator has good insight into the world we're talking about here, and also into the way we've built up our systems that are supposed to help those who are not able to live the same comfortable life as we are in this hall, I'd like to ask him. I think there's something really strange about this song that has to do with the user-controlled personal help. Certain goals were set for us to start making deals and doing things, and they just don't seem to matter. They just say, "Oh, no, the money's over. At the same time, we have other systems, and thankfully it is not that only microorganism is being applied and said: "Oh, no, you're an invalid. 387 this year. You're not gonna get any money. Or: You are unemployed. 802 this year, you don't get any money. Or were you becoming 67? Yeah, no, we're done with those who get a pension this year. In this system, however, it's: No, we're done with the numbers this year. We are not going to keep our promises or make plans. Isn't there something wrong with this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u155	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Well, I'll tell everything he said. But it's not just a person's discount: Stop, there's no money. You can also find yourself in a insurance agency that keeps saying to you: No, you have to sue the Social Security Committee, you're not getting anything. I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it, I know it, I And in pensions, you're getting less place than 10 percent, you're getting only 90% in front of a dollar. We can see it all over the system. There's been an all-out and especially in this system. That's why it's a terrible thing to know, because there was a lot of ambition in it, and so a minister of his time when the NPA deal was made, already at the highest level. ... formerService Minister, Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, has left, but everything has stopped. I ask myself why and there seems to be no explanation. It sucks to know that at the time of the Quantum Community, there have just been three judicial decisions through which it must be judged. At the same time, judgment against the rural communities will have to stop them and say, "Courage is over, there will be nothing more. " Then the State comes with a financial program that puts into this 320 billion just to maintain what is happening today. This was not what was negotiated. I need to draw it up, but I remember there was supposed to be an increase a year from now. But I think they're just interpreting it, so it was just supposed to be during the last government period, not on this one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u156	Madam President. I want to thank you for the answers. Senator. I tried to ask the highest. Minister earlier how it was to betray people, betray promises, that they were breaking down the hopes that people had for freedom, about how they could live a decent life despite needing this great help. Then the excuses come: it was more expensive than we thought, and it was and that, and now we're working on an analysis. Now we have a committee to analyze this. In a talk earlier tonight, I said that I feel that something is wrong when we set these laws and expect someone else to pay. We're just saying, it's no big deal. Let's just say "wow." paritaprevir Einarsson put it earlier: Yes, free nurserys, but the communities have to pay for it. Meanwhile, we are not making sure that they have more income, and we are not making sure that even if there is a need, more money is put on this case and that it has been found to cost more. What do we as the General need to do in order to win these laws and bills more effectively so that there is a basis for the promises being made so that we do not have to betray people again and again about what they have hoped for? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. And, yes, promises. What can we do? I just have to say exactly as it is that the situation now, considering this, another government needs to be taken. This government is not going to do anything unless it's the Microcollar Alliance, NTPA, renegotiates. Obviously, we'll have to renegotiate. We have to take that package. But the problem I think is that we've already chosen. The last time it was written, it was promised before the election. Now nothing's promised, and then it's just a cut, it's just stop, nothing more. That's exactly what I'm doing. We know the kind of work I've been criticizing here lately, like about free health care. Yeah, she's a vacation, but where did we take the money? Yes, we just transferred it to physical therapists, to specialists, they take more places than the cost of vacation health care. It's just a transfer. And what's ridiculous about all this is that they're not saving money. There's a lot of evidence that putting money in a system like this will bring a lot of benefits, fewer hospitalisations, less cost of medicine. If we just talk about freedom and human rights and the quality of life of the people being locked up in there, I'll just say to my part, "I was a millimeter away from being on that side, and nobody knows if he's gonna land on that side. And he, whether he's in government or in a government position, wants to keep NPA in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u158	Madam President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The social and workforce minister is happy to have not come in here with a bill that is to be extended every time to take on the staff's work to provide personal assistance but seems to be that we now have a bill to work on that particular subject. It has been this way, Madam President, in recent years that we have been using the time of the council here at the council Hall and at the regular committees to extend every appointment to decide how this work period should be so that I rejoice that it is finally brought into the council. But I have to draw attention to the fact that the first bill was passed to April 1 and that it was my initiative, just because we were always extending this year after year, we had to make sure that it wasn't going to be ready for our last bill, that it wouldn't have been won by New Year's Eve. It was quite clear that it would not. We were about to go through elections and things like that. But there is a great need. Of course, the welfare committee would push many other matters aside, which are important in this committee and work this case because the staff now operates in these delicate activities in a certain legal uncertainty. I'm not going to discuss for a long time the contents of this bill but more about the circumstances of people who use user - controlled and personal help and how we have failed to fulfill the laws that this great law makes available to us. It is incredibly sad how the government, how the government, has made a decision not to enforce what the law says. provision was made for temporary service to disabled persons with long - term needs, on how these laws should be carried out. It is clearly stated what to make use of large amounts of money, how many contracts to do, and how normal it is to be taken in a particular step. Of course, a particular examination of how many need this service, how many can use this service, how many of us have been able to perform this service, etc. In the first year after the Law was given, up to 80 contracts were to be negotiated in 2018. The following year, 2019 years ago, up to 103 contracts were to be negotiated. Then we're talking about this particular provisional principle saying, by permission of a president: During the induction period, a public fund provides the following number of contracts for the user-controlled personal assistance to be arranged through the local branch Fund, which made up of the sum of contracts, on the basis of rural applications:◯ - and as soon as 2019, 103 contracts were spoken of. Madam President. In 2021 at the end of the year, the 90 treaties were made. In 2022, we have 172 contracts. We have almost half of the NPA contracts in Iceland today, the welfare state, the rich Iceland, where the Ministers are traveling around the world to tell us what a treat and how kind we are to our people. We've set up the situation so that it's the locals that keep their arms on the project. That's where the application procedure takes place. There are also the communities responsible for having to defend themselves in court because there are individuals who have been trying when treaties have not been concluded with them. The law says there should be 172 contracts this year. An individual in great need for this service decided to put this into practice in Mosfellstown, and the conclusion of the district court was that the community was sentenced to pay compensation for not having made a contract with the individual. The case was appealed to the National Court, and the Court's decision was reversed. It is of interest to note how the National Court handles this case because it really seems to be a great understanding of these matters and how they are locked up. In effect, the requirement for reform was rejected because the person who appealed to the case could not have shown that he had been affected by the case. However, in terms of failure requirements, it was said that in a bill - to - law comment, i.e. damage repairs, if indicated by the criteria for non-susceptible analogues, require criminal behaviour. It meant that rural society could not be said to have criminal behavior, that failure to do harm would have to be significant in order to be viewed as an illegal offense, and that the community does not grant this service seems to be criminal. This is where the National Court deals quite well with this strange problem, because it's legal that it's the local community that's supposed to do something about it. But in this case, with this person, we said, "Yes, we'll make a deal with you, but we'll have the State's approval for a 25% share of the cost department, and until we get them 25% we can't make the deal. In other words, the community was ready to pay its own expense factor, but the state drew its feet. As mentioned earlier, about half of the contracts legalized by the state are being financed after all this time. The rural communities were said to have self - control in matters given to the lawgiver, as well as self - control of the expenses of the rural communities. Therefore, it was not agreed that the community had agreed to negotiate with the individual on MPA services or assistance regardless of whether the State had already agreed that treaties would be made. What I want to say with this is that the official position on this project is so different. The rural communities in Iceland, which we all know are funded, income-separated state and rural society, are so flagrantly crooked, and the state lays laws and throws all of this on the countryside to enforce it. What happens is that it is eventually the rural communities that do not meet specific requirements and that do not meet certain services. Why? Yeah, because it doesn't have the budget to go with it, 25%. The government has only entrusted itself with 90 contracts, not 172, at the moment. It was quite clear that when this year's budget was submitted and released in December, there was no place to change it. That's not gonna happen. The figures discussed show that these agreements are not to be multiplied, and in a financial program now being implemented in the council, it is said that there is a need for additional contributions to the contracts to deliver the current agreements, Madam President. Not to be a force for enforcing what is stated in the law on how many contracts have been made but only to do so in the least and much less than the law commands. It's always the communities that end up with black things in their hands. It hasn't yet happened that I knew, that I was contended with the kingdom for this, but it may be. But with this court of law, which actually turned to the court of the district, a decision was made that the local community should pay compensation, the National Court shows a definite understanding of the discrepancies they are in. If there's no funding, who's going to pay for this? The law makes it clear that a certain portion of these agreements should be paid by the State. Behind these figures, the 82 non-contracted agreements, there are 82 people who need this service, 82 families, children, and adults, who have to care for the individuals who have the right to serve, friends, and relatives. 82 individuals who suffer from extreme impairment because the State is not fulfilling the duties of the law. Madam President. You see, it's not just numbers on paper. They're people. They're people who live in Iceland, rich Iceland, in the welfare community, who don't get enough service. It is the government that makes the decision not to render this service. It is the government of the left movement ▪ green supply, the Independence Party, and the forward party that decides to have almost half of the contracts going on. It is this government that makes a decision not to make enough money and to allow people, 82 people, who are going to be negotiated, to live under a low standard of living.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u159	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just want to look it up as the former head of the welfare committee. I'd like to start by pointing out how ridiculous it is, and what it means to put bad priorities, that this bill will light up on the same day as the provisional principle that will replace it with a date. This cannot be blamed for the practices of the council. A minister brought it here on the day they needed to make a difference. No force at all could have prevented these windows from forming in the legal position of people working in the MPA service. But this is the priorities of the government. It's finally here. We are happy, and it is good not to wait as long as we have had to wait for the United Nations legalized agreement on the rights of disabled people who were to be completed in December 2020, according to the General resolution. It's much better to be just a few weeks late for this. But okay. This is where we talk about eating human rights over how much money the official time is making. We're talking, not that human rights are guaranteed no matter what, but just what we do for it. This article describes 172 contracts in a preliminary directive to be implemented this year. Thus, the induction period will be completed according to the preliminary protocol. What then? Are the 172 contracts covered forever? Then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u160	Madam President. Now I'm reading the law, and it says that the regulations and MPA arrangements should be reviewed within three years of the law's implementation. This law is no. Since May 9, of course, 38/2018, they were to be reviewed at the latest last May, i.e. how and how many deals should be made. As shown in my case earlier, we are actually in the second year of a number of contracts, or less than that. In the first year, 80 contracts were to be negotiated. In the second year, they would be 103, which is 90 in the second year, i.e. in 2019 C.E. Covid cannot be blamed, it's just a political decision. It was to be considered: Is that enough? Do we need to have more contracts? Do we have too many contracts based on frames? However, the bill also discusses disabled persons living in institutions or in rooms, offering other living conditions according to the laws and regulations set out in them. I am also ignorant that it is being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u161	Madam President. That's the whole point. A period of induction to cover more than five years and was to be completed this year - we are not even halfway about it compared to the others. The preliminary principle is just a fake, it might as well throw it out and just say: A lot of NAPA deals just depend on what the government decides on the budget. We may as well stop acting like we're chasing those numbers when the government is obviously not doing that. It was said, in this preliminary paper, that this should be assessed by the service weight and need of the system, but I think the procedure has always been to restore some kind of roof. Is that not an overwhelming thought in these matters, this dinner that is always to be put on this human right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u162	Madam President. It says on the provisional principle, not at a minimum, up to ◯. It may have been a mistake. Now I wasn't in trouble. the welfare committee when this particular bill was delivered. I came into the committee a little later, in the fall of 2019. But maybe the government can just cover up this way and say, "If we make one deal, we're still enforcing it up to show. " But there is, of course, evidence of fairy ambition in service to those with disabled people, the service to people who need necessary, in their daily lives, to get this service in order to enjoy basic human rights, so that no more is said.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vóða Helgadóttir for her speech. I would decide how these matters are handled before the court. Now we have a court case in the parking lot. I was reading through him, and I noticed that there was no law to go to these impairments, which, of course, is remarkable; through the whole system it appeared well but was stubborn. The 90th rule of discrimination was also referred to. I ask myself: In this case, we may have two individuals who both have the same need for such assistance. One receives the ministry, and the other one does not, and then we must be showing favoritism toward those who do not receive the ministry. It must, in particular, be within that framework, while the expectations have not yet been met. I was on the committee at the time, and no one doubted the fact that this was not going to be fulfilled. The minister rejoiced over it as if he had arranged it and had financed it all, and he decorated himself with the feathers that he had arranged for this matter. This law was then made to reconsider if necessary. At that time, it was not even certain whether all these contracts were needed as a whole. I ask, how does that look? A senator as a lawyer? These were accepted by the law, and a minister declares that it is a pivotal agreement, and that it should be with them. You don't realize that there are laws you can accept here at the General but that somehow you can avoid them again and again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u164	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In the period ofigration, regulations were set up. There a minister makes a decision, there are ministers who set regulations, as we know, to set regulations, that there may be an impaired compensation or pension for people who have lived abroad at some point in their lives, to perform some kind of impairment for them. The results of this great victory case were not surprising because Aldulis's agent had come to this conclusion, the district court had reached this conclusion, and finally the Supreme Court at the beginning of the week had simply been authorized by the law. All this time, the Kingdom is desperate for it, and it says, "Yes, we're right. This is so important, there are so much interests at stake that you don't have to pay back. And what has the Kingdom been doing all this time? They continued to work after the old song, and then they planned to start winding away slowly at some point in the future. Of course, that cannot happen. In the case we have here, another sentence last year fell that I was trying to research on the user - controlled personal assistance, since such assistance was thought to be a basic course. What a victory that was! I was trying to find out if that judgment was appealed to the National Court. This one went down sometime last spring, 2021. Maybe I'll find it before I come back for an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vólvóða Helgadóttir for the answer. Indeed, the most amazing thing in this case is the stubbornness of this government and the sheer will of sin. The fragility was so great that a insurance institution drew his feet into correcting the agreed object. They left their special supplements behind, but the rest of them had agreed, but they still drew their feet, yet they made absurd demands. Yet, I was told that there was a considerable group they didn't intend to do anything for. I wondered, " Why on earth does this government feel that it is just a matter of violating the rights of these people? ' You start to think, " How on earth can you do things like this, and it doesn't change? ' I don't know how they're going to justify it, it's an incomprehensible phenomenon, it's incomprehensible that humans act like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u166	Madam President. Yes, how can you do so badly? I think that's got to be the big question at the Council these days and this loss. It is not just the case, it seems, in all the matters taken by the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir and his partner. It was at the end of March of last year that judgment was passed in the province of Reykjavík, which confirmed that the user - controlled personal assistance was the legal right of disabled persons and that it was illegal to place goodbyes on that human rights. This is a very interesting case, but again I say: I don't remember seeing the decision of the land's rights in it, but it must be that the case was appealed, I just can't find it. Many very interesting matters are addressed here because, as we have seen today, there are very many individuals who are hoping to receive this service and who are waiting for it. Sadly, this has not been so because only then and so many treaties are offered on the part of the State. Then, of course, it comes with the rule of 90, who gets and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u167	Madam President. I listened to fine talks on this fine subject, but when I listened to it, I began to think a little bit. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Helgadótta describes this court because I have been so focused on what a certain community group must constantly bring their rights to the courts rather than bring him back to the politics. I didn't ask too long to the highest level. Social Affairs Minister for the Court of Justice in the Supreme Court, where the State lost for the third time against the Quantum Community. Ásmundur Einar Daðason, then social and child - care minister, had discussed this matter at a government meeting in the late autumn. I urge you to consider the answers to my inquiry. I hoped that the switch to the Minister's chair could possibly lead to a disappearance, but that wasn't so. A new social minister, this time from the left green, declared it to me in writing that he did not comment on these lawsuits. It makes me feel so eager when you remember that the state is there fighting for, with a special permit to apply to take it to the Supreme Court, a violation of the worst-growing group of micro-organists. I think it's so romantic that I've had trouble doing it. So the question or viewpoint is, what does it say when those who have the worst in the community have difficulty not only with dominant rulers but also, rather, with the child's rights being passed through the court route?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u168	Madam President. This has now been discussed by the U.S. Marshal Who is now better than anyone when it comes to monitoring the rights of the citizens and not being trampled on, an enormously important office. I remember the corrosion and the words passed down by Aldulis's emissary about the year when government lawyers - in the case of our fellows - can talk about a city lawyer or a town lawyer but another state lawyer - were so violent that they would do everything they could to win it. A general agent said that this is not the case because it is a civilian who is competing with his superpowers. In fact, to a state attorney in this case, he says that in some way he must act as a district attorney, that there must be a certain objective principle. When it comes to taking such an overpowering and powerful office for defense, or let's say, offensively, it has to be watched only with them glasses. There's a government, or a community, fighting with all its power to the citizen's rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u169	Madam President. That's what I'm thinking of. Maybe just a little. A senator sees it exactly the same, experienced in being in court. Although the case is in the name of an insurance agency, it has reached the stage where it is being discussed at a government meeting. We're talking about the fact that there's been an official of the General Assembly, in the province, on the National Court that the decline of the specific growth of disability donor is not legal. As a result, over another thousand individuals in the long run have not received this minimal support for the legal development that the law had decided they should enjoy. So this point, to be done with this force--and I noticed that in the end of the last election, the chairman of the Quantum Community proposed to the world's highest power. Social Affairs Minister Ásmundur Daðason's son to stay now, but it just didn't catch his ears, and it didn't get noticed because it's a big political case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u170	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. You're absolutely right. You see, using the government in this way is a big political decision. That's a big decision. True, there are great interests for the state's funds, but somewhere you have to put your name on the name of two Supreme Courts and the Federal agent having spoken crystal clear, as in this case. How many individuals hold back from seeking their rights? How many people don't dream of walking into a law firm because they know they can't afford it? How many people in Icelandic society - they just don't think about going and seeking their right to the superpower of government. [[The president calls.]] Let's think about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u171	Madam President. This case, the bill to correct a change in the laws on equipment, loyalty and security in the workplace, centered on the working hours of employees who provide personal assistance, has been with me since I started my work here in the fall of 2016, i.e. cases of a user - controlled personal service, so - called NPA, have, unfortunately, been accompanied by people who need that service much longer. This was one of these cases that I and other members of the Parliament were working in the winter of 2016 to 2017, and unfortunately they were still being treated in the summer of 2017, and thus they were incomplete when the government fell by the fall of the year. I was reviewing it now, when I was preparing for this discussion, that I was one of them, and Porta's members were also among them, if I recall correctly, who thought that the matter was well balanced in the work of committees to allow it to be completed at that time. But it was not, and then, 2016, there were cases of people with disability who had waited for five years to apply for such assistance, making it simply possible for them to live their lives according to their own desires and desires. Already, over the council, it had been delayed to finish this matter. It's been a fine talk that's been held here. Finally, events involving staff equipment are being resolved, and it is very good to see it finished here, even though I now agree on the wonder of the remains to be discussing it here at the council when the deferral is actually suspended. But maybe I'm going to do the same thing that many people have said here, and I'm going to use this opportunity and button on what I think we're most surprised and sad about, i.e. that the matter should not have moved faster, and that we should be in this idly bonded relationship between state and country members in connection with financing. I don't think it's a question of the growing agreements on user-controlled personal assistance is one of the biggest freedoms we have today, a matter of freedom of choice which is strictly social rights, social freedom, the freedom to live your life. We have a lot to talk about from here, from the General's symposium on freedom, from a number of times, indeed. But freedom comes in so many forms, and the basic freedom of choice must be that we are free to choose our lives, at least. daily activities, as we choose, i.e. being at least As free as those who live in society with us. This is exactly what this user - controlled personal help enables those who are disabled to do. In recent years, we have been spending time with the council to extend every appointment, finding out how we want to implement this arrangement with staff hours, and now we have a definite conclusion on this matter. I went into the story, when I was preparing myself here, and taking a look at it, went all the way back to the beginning of my career but then stopped at the discussion of the budget at the end of the year, as many have done and discussed here. That is exactly what this crisis of state and rural society has brought about, and I think there are many of us who agree that few are able to feel it as much as those who have the legal right to negotiate this important service, but it is simply not financial. These contracts, for the user-controlled personal assistance, are simply based on laws on services to disabled persons with long-term needs, and these contracts are in the countryside, but money comes largely from the state. It has been reviewed here that the state should be paid with a fixed number of contracts each year, 80 contracts in 2018, 150 contracts a year, while 172 contracts are agreed this year. The legal authority discussed makes it possible to fulfill 93 of these contracts. Hence, there are hardly 80 people who have the law to obtain a service that they do not receive because of our priorities in financial matters. It has to be said, as it is, that the line is drawn into the sand. It simply does not agree with a law letter that we have approved and with a financial authority that must be approved to fulfill that law. That's not new. The law, however, is very clear about this. The procedure is so that the council will agree with the legal authority to finance this number of contracts, or rather a financial warrant, that will cover the costs of the council's need. Then it turns out that it's not enough, and that's where we're stranded. There's a waiting list. There's a demand. In some respects, rural communities have worked preparatoryly, but they are not allowed to get a tournament from the state to finance all of this and thus the contract as a whole. They take care of the project and, as explained here, it is their duty to defend themselves in court because, as we have seen, individuals who want to be tested in court if they do not receive the legal service. That's normal, I think who can see it in his hand. In this regard, I would like to refer only to the answers to questions I proposed to the 2021 social and child - care minister of 2021, to the introduction of these contracts. I even asked.: How will a minister meet individuals who are denied a contract based on lack of funding? The minister's answer was: It's the responsibility of my colleagues to prioritize candidates for services based on the rules they set for themselves. In other words, Svarti-Pétur is with the rurals as follows. They need this year, 2022, to choose which of these 172 individuals should be signed, which 79 individuals are left behind. It's a little bit of a problem. I talked before about this being some kind of prenuptial planning for financing. It is often this way, we know that there is some legal service that the State wants to perform, but the budget is not enough. At some point, we will find ourselves on the move, and we will not always be able to take steps there. I review the fine work that everyone worked, which was extended at any given cost, and now I think that the need for it has been revealed, has not been close to the same as the need for the individuals who are now awaiting the legal service they have a right to do so to put things in some context. There's no way for a general to know when such a situation arises. Well, here's the budget. If it turns out the fund isn't enough, we can take action. It's about priorities. But when it's said that, it's the manifestation of this race between state and group members of such lities that we must put forth considerable effort here to prevent such a situation from occurring. When we make laws to perform some kind of service, even nail it into the law how many people are to enjoy the ministry from year to year, we must stick to it, not move on. Instead, let us accept fewer laws, allow fewer balls, if that is the case, if we fail to set our priorities differently. However, I would very much like to have an honest conversation with the government about a different priorities than they have worked in harmony. It's a different story, most likely it will succeed. It's a good thing that we see this matter in this process, that we are completing this process, which has led to the working hours of employees because it has truly proved to be complicated and rightly so. There is also the need to consider that the rights of the staff and to ensure that the work environment is in such a way that people are drawn to them. It's not simple. But it's created an opportunity, and I'm glad that the Senate world, at least The good part of the U.S. Congress, which rulers fill, has wanted to discuss these important matters. We are under obligation to ensure the freedom of individuals who rely on that service according to the law. That's key. That's our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u172	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for reviewing our joint biographer here at the council because we've been following these NAPA songs since they were just a private bill in 2016, at the beginning of our Senate career. The fact that the issue is now taking place, on the same day and on the provision of the provisional principle, is so vivid to this story. Everything's been postponed, all pushed ahead of the system. Nothing has been done in time or with the ambition that this group deserves. I'd like to mention one thing that was a little much discussed on a welfare committee when we sat there together working on the bill that became the law 2018. It was, for example. a lot of talk about the cost of a share between state and rural society. 75% of state, 25% of rural areas. - The communities wanted the... back? [[Up front.]] Yes, exactly the rural communities have 75%, and they stressed that the state would take 5 percent more, that we would move it between them. The committee said: "We understand this, we want to see how it turns out, and anyway, it's about to reconsider the law in three years. Let's just put this into theulia, which includes... the need for adjustment of the standards of the service weight and the scope of the law will be reviewed. That deadline came out three years later. It was last year. [[The president calls.]] A review of the cost of a share between the state and the community is now a year over the amount of time we gave them to revise this. What does this say about priorities in this series of issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u173	Mr. President. Yeah, this is interesting. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for this answer and this review. This does not tell us a good story about priorities, but it also reveals a little something about the complications of this issue that has been wrapped in over the past few years. I actually went and looked at the story, and this was just not one of those things that jumped on me in that story but all sorts of ellipses. I got the impression that on the part of the council, the majority of the section that runs a quest here, contrary to what some might wish to be, somehow this would have been more complicated than, for example. A review of communication laws, such as discussions in committees and so on. But, to be honest, the story has somehow been that there have been improvements and puzzles and patches and, to the extent, so much so that details such as expired deadlines just fail without action. I didn't remember this, I'll tell you right now. This is sad because it would have been possible to win this good, important, and positive thing with such dignity. It could have been so good to finish it, and it's such a good thing, but it's been in this costume. I can hear it here that this division -- now I can't figure it out, and here are people who are better off telling where it is exactly in the process. But, of course, the key to getting it straight and out of line, as I said before, is this struggle on this matter and is becoming more focused on looking for ways to increase these contracts, because that's what's going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u174	Mr. President. It may be appropriate to review, too, that the provisional principle changed to the International Parliament's affairs, so instead of a two - year revision to be performed after reimbursement, the Ministry of Congress gave another year. We extended the deadline to three years, and, of course, there's more to this than the cost department. So I'll just read from a paper with the bill, because it's the text that comes from the Ministry, by permission: The guidelines for the service weight and the experience of user contracts for those requiring less services need also be reviewed. What I read out of those words, did at the same time, was: we're going to start by driving this MPA system for the people most in need of the greatest service. So when we get to that, we're going to see if we can do this for people who need less service with a lower level of service. So I would have thought that any change in the review of this directive should lead to a considerable expansion of it, because the NAA services are active, not only for people who need daily services and full-time personnel, but also for people who need a more controlled service. And we've come more than a year beyond that. This is not to be surprised by the Ministry because it set up a regulation on the implementation of these laws in which this department is in Article 15. and divided from country society, 75% and state, 25%. This is as stated in the provisional Regulation of the Regulation that they themselves negotiate: The Department of Department will be reviewed within three years of the implementation of this Regulation. It went into effect on December 27, 2018. [[The president calls.]] The delay that the Ministry put itself without the help of the Generals ran out by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u175	President. This is very interesting and I'm going to get to throw the ball back. I wasn't here when the minister gave his speech on the subject, didn't know if he would get that question to him then, and how it's true, but it's one of the things we need to do, and it's a little better to take care of. But it's so interesting to me, as a boy. A senator came in, and I agree, that this pig works, so I use the same words as the dog. Senator. It's just that way. The tailoring of such a personal service to people who have not quite so complete or a great need for service, in isolated areas - it is so easy to imagine that such a service would be significantly extended, and then we have just come up with an entirely different set of freedoms, so I use this word, which we use with all sorts of barriers, not necessarily because of disability, it can be an accidental injury, it can be age, it can be so much. This approach is so much gold, and it's such a sin that we're saving money when it comes to financing the gold that this service is for people who really need it. But this review has to take place, that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u176	President. I want to thank you first. paritaprevir Friðriksson Frirdiksson for bringing freedom into this discussion, that's exactly what's on this matter, NPA, and support people with some sort of disability or impairment. I find it so remarkable that the group of freedoms, which are equipped with a set of freedoms that we are giving people to live independent lives instead of actually locking them away in institutions with a very limited ability to participate in the community they own, to use probe, full right to - to keep the other categories in the government that claim to represent human rights and so is one of them. I come up to discuss the fact that we have signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People and Part of that Convention, and it was very interesting to hear the communication between the two groups. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son Andrews assume that people with reduced ability to make decisions, including Because of some form of developmental abnormalities or because of some type of psychiatric depression, the right to get a personal spokesman to support it in decision making. Rather than allowing such ones to be pressured, forced, or taken over by the right to make decisions, they should be supported by decision making. This is something that I think the NPA system should be heading toward because we are not meeting this agreement's demand. [[The president calls.]] We are still in a state of forced straits, robbing people of freedom, removing the right of decision in perfect agreement with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Is it not just that the rights of disabled people have no priority in Iceland, their freedom not particularly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u177	Mr. President. It's a very interesting approach. I know a little about this by fulfilling these conditions of the contract, i.e. Already there will be freedom from those who suffer from this spiritual impairment. When we get off the hook, it's only a different version of this user - controlled personal help. It may be too deep in the years to say that there is no interest in providing people with disability requiring this type of help, but the priority is certainly not. It's only as if we're working with the NPA contracts, which we're working on. It's not just the length, and it's not just this tension about financing. When you run the story, you can see these rings, and this goes well with the NTSB, the welfare committee, and almost every opportunity you had to step on the brake. That's kind of how it feels. I'm not saying you don't have to be careful, and I'm not saying it's simple. I think, for example. the species that lays. A senator here talks about using user - controlled assistance to the more complex spiritual impairment. It is more complicated, but it may be easier to establish when we have the experience. But the key point is, like, cot. A senator correctly comes in: If we are going to do this, if we are to secure the freedom of these people, we need to put these first and all of us must come along, including those who are sitting somewhere else, but in their seat right here in the chamber right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u178	A respectable president. By permission of a president, or by a delay in justice, you are rejected. I generally think it's the attitude that meets disabled people in the Icelandic legal system. The NAP agreements, they're being drafted, and they're not even filled up in that saying. People are even trapped in a nursing home instead of being able to live their own lives as laws assume, and as our commitments assume, as people have the right to live free lives in human society. We're talking about the onset of disability. This is a discussion that has been going on for a very long time, but we are not even getting the greeting that has already been put on when it comes to personal assistance. It's hard to believe, and it's always being pushed ahead. I bring up the support of decision making because it's very important to me. I've had something heavy on my mind, the way we treated people with mental challenges in Iceland. They enjoy second - rate rights in all their treatments. They cannot even ask for a new legal guardian if their legal guardian somehow misuses his position toward them or treats them badly or is rude or boring, whatever it is. There is nothing in the law that expects you to ask for a new legal guardian. It is all in the law that assumes that if you live with some sort of disability, you will not enjoy the freedom that others do, if you do not have the same rights as others, and not the equal access to society, and if you do not have the rights to treat those who are not disabled. This is not only true of those with mental problems; it is also true of those with general disability. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying that people may be opposed to granting human rights to those with disability, but their priorities, their bradycardia, just show that they don't care. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They do not make any effort to make it happen, and that is the same as denying rights to people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u179	President. Yes, there is in itself not much to add, I simply agree wholeheartedly. I'd like to say, though, to add a little something that is, without me wanting in any way to take a perspective from the individuals who are entitled to this service, need it and in some case, too many, to wait for it, that there are others in this community that concern. You can count on the family of the individual. You can count on the friends of the individual, and then, very simply, it can be extended to society simply because it is simply that we want to live in a well - established community. That's how we think society is better. We think of ourselves as rich people living in such a society. We benefit from it. We want to raise our children in that kind of society. We want to walk around with our children, and we can point out these examples of the community in which we live. We put ourselves in the community we live in, and we want to be proud of it. We will all be richer if we give these individuals the freedom that we ourselves enjoy. It's not that complicated, and it's no more complicated than that. It's gonna cost some money, we're gonna get it back a lot. There's a lot of money, and we don't get much out of it, and the examples show it. It's about priorities and it's about finishing the case. I think it's like so many times before, the will isn't all that is needed, but if it's there, then we'll finish it, and also for those who have the spiritual disorders that a senator has taken up here, and we're clearly the next thing to do when we finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u180	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a set of laws on how to handle equipment, loyalty and security in the workplace, about the working hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. Today's discussion has given rise to discussing this group of subjects for this special bill, which is only about the employees working within the seminar. It can be said that this group of languages is affected and that it is naturally discussed with all intent and seriousness, and we examine it systemically. There have been many interesting and intriguing statements, and this can be considered in many ways, both in the rights of those who should be treated, between state and rural society, can be discussed. You can also just discuss how money is granted to the people of the country, and I want to start with the NPA deal myself. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttur Hevarsdóttir here mentioned the freedom that is so important in each life. Let's just think about what NPA means. This is a user - controlled personal aid, and according to definition, we are discussing a form of service based on the ideologies of independent life and this ideologies to enable disabled people to determine where and by whom they live and who they live and who the disabled also direct how the assistance is organized, what assistance is being given, when it is taking place, and where it is taking place, and who gives it. The purpose of this is that disabled individuals can live their own lives and have the same potential as those who were disloyal. Of course, the purpose is that this group should control their own lives as the rest of us do. It is the goal of such agreements. However, these treaties have been in charge of the local community. There are two administrative points that are paying for this service, finance this service, and somehow there will always be a rope between state and rural society when both administrative positions perform some form of service. That's clearly stated in the NAPA agreements. I'd also like to mention community assistance or home care. It is an endless rope between rural society and the state of state on which to provide what, for the sake of nursing, is granted by state and community service by rural society. What interests me at least is that there is, like, a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi said earlier, making it really hard for me to just take a bullet, to discuss a greeting of human rights, which is, of course, unique, that human rights can be tormented. But this is just a real truth as to what the situation is. We're talking about individuals who need a special service, but because it's not financial or that's just for a certain number to wait until later - or never. Of course, it's remarkable to see that then we have all kinds of things in the budget that are just like an open bog, the coin just flows out of the state fund, and nothing can stop it. But at the same time, we have this service plan, which is dependent on funding at any given time, which is, in my opinion, absolutely ridiculous. As was said here in the campaign by a certain category: There is no such thing. So when you look at financial programs and budgets. We've got a body member on the budget, including... For 2022, up to 35 billion. They may have some unexpected unforeseeable expenses, but all of a sudden money comes out of the pocket of a minister whom they throw into some pet project by chance and by army. But at the same time, there's a plan like this. It's a very special thing to do. I know this part of the government that rural society is doing a service to disabled persons. We have these so - called bony contracts, which have been some of the values of the NAPA agreements, so that disabled persons who go to the countryside after this service usually get to these so - called bone contracts, with the hope that NPA will take over. But then the coven starts with the government: do we get money or don't we get money? All I know is that at home in my community, there were a lot of people waiting for NPA contracts that haven't been made yet. Of course, this is very bad, and it is not acceptable that we as a community invite those who may be in the most trying situation of their work. Nothing's supposed to happen. A respectable president. This specific bill under consideration for the work hours of workers who provide personal assistance to the user-controlled and that is a postponing of the rights obtained through collective contracts of the past few years. I just have to put it here. I'm just a little nervous because it's the way it is. I'd like to, with President's permission, to read from this bill a little bit. How Would You Answer? par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. ▪ After 53 C.E. a new article of the law, 53rd par. b, as follows: Despite 1st mg. 53. g. and 1st. 56. g. is to provide services on the basis of Article 11. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M. 38/2018, in exceptional cases allowed the hours of the service workers to have a shorter rest than the hours specified in 1 mg. 53. g. and can then last continuously up to a maximum of 48 hours for which the following conditions are met: The requirements include that there has been an agreement between rural society and a partner in working arrangements, since the circumstances may create that this could lead to mental or physical stress on the part of the individual. And then for a temporary trip. The second part of Genesis chapter 2 tells us that "the whole world is lying in the power of ▪ Full - time workers have a place of rest and can rest for a minimum of seven hours continuously during the night work hours at the time. Number 3. 52. g. which falls within the hours of work, and only two breaks of rest are expected to peak during that period in connection with the service services. This is a significant consideration of the overall workforce over the years. We have written into collective agreements 11 hours rest a day and this is about the law if the rest is shortened below eight hours. It's a matter of law, so it's a request for an exception from the current law. If people go from 11 hours to eight hours, there will be vacation rights that accumulate and people can use in the way they choose. So I'll be, at least. Mr. President, expressing my opinion that I feel that such adjustments need to be done with caution. I understand the need for service, but I don't feel that service should be rendered at the expense of those who are working on it. I just think it's weird. V.E.G. Social and employment secretary said it was such an expensive plan. Yes, the services of a sick person are expensive. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, If this is to be done at the expense of those who work in this article, I find it difficult to accept. We are not changing the working time of nurses or hospital staff because the resources are so expensive in the hospital. I just think it's weird that this is the way to go. There must be a way to look at the possibility of changing the surveillance arrangements of the workers working in this way of caring, the number of shifts can be increased. Someone mentioned in a pool earlier that it may be possible to save money - at the expense of those who work in this service. Granted, it may be good for these laws to appear, but I am not pleased with this content. We, a respectable president, are to see our own respect in granting these services to those who are in need of this service, and we are to do so as people do. There's nothing to give a discount on the hours of work. We understand that this may be an unexpected situation. That is just the way it is in a general labour market. There are fore majeure regulations in collective agreements because there may be a little more work to be done because of unexpected events that need to be dealt with, and of course it could only be that way in this case too. A respectable president. I think a welfare committee should examine this and see if there are any other options to make these things work. You only get seven hours here, and there may be a switch twice into seven hours. You may get to sleep for three and a half hours, and then you may have to work, and then you may get back to sleep for three and a half hours or not because you can break the rest twice during the seven hours. So for a 40-hour cycle, you will have 14 hours, which are not necessarily uniform but on a general labour market, 22 of which are continuous, 11 hours of rest per day. A respectable president. We are to keep talking about this and make sure that it is granted to all those in need. But we are not to do this at the expense of those who render this service and work in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator on the tour. It was a bit fun to hear how many hats he has, how he can come up with this story from different directions. And it was particularly good to have this view of a man with experience in labor struggles because, like a dog, it was especially good. A senator will say that NPA, like other welfare services, is expensive, but it must not be at the expense of the people who work at it. So I have to admit that it was a little boring for me not to get reviews from language, as we often do with these things, because the Ministry said that they had communicated with unions that came along and that would be all right. But we now know that at times the outcome may be different from that of an associate. So it will be interesting to see how the reviews apply to this case from the sources involved. I just hope it's all going to work out well with a welfare committee. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator because of his other hat, which he has, which is the hat of rural management for many years, and really throughout this period of NPA service, perhaps not the NAPA service itself, but especially on the condition of disabled persons, because there is another provision that I don't think is closely followed in these laws. Clotheed people who live in institutions or in rooms should offer other farm options. How is the conversation between the state and the community about the cost? And who carries e.g. The responsibility for having disabled persons who could possibly qualify for this service is to know that they have the right to do so so so that they can make informed decisions about whether they are reaching out for their own place of worship?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u182	A respectable president. I wasn't born yesterday, and that's why I might have made a lot of hats in the past, dealt with a lot of things. Yes, I know this, of course, not only after working in the labor movement but also as a unit manager where I've been from 1998 with some breaks, so I've been there for a long time. But yes, this is something special, that we should always be dealing with - because this is a period of induction, how long it takes, and how long it takes to be beating on this and for some reason it doesn't work. But, hey. A member of the body also mentioned opportunities for disabled persons. I don't think there's much or nothing in the conversation between state and rural society. It is mainly true that rural society deals with such a society as Emess the Emess Fund, which has taken part in building resources for disabled persons whom their rural communities have then taken in. They are also doing this for startups, so a local company has established a donation when Brudge ◯ House Fund starts to build. It may be in the form of deliveries on land and down payments of pricing, which reduces the cost of building on these instruments. I know that the Empress's treasure has been looking to do more for us, but there's just no communication between state and rural society regarding this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u183	Mr. President. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People states that disabled people should have the opportunity to choose a place to live. It's a great enterprise, but I think that's just not enough. I'm picturing, for example. The need for community services to have people on their side who will be able to move from home to house, where people are in some convergence structure, people who were only dealing with disabled individuals in order to get their real wishes about living things. Besides, it'd just be processed. It costs a price, and it needs to determine whether it is a government or a rural population who accept it. But I'd like to ask you right here in the last few seconds: The focus of the NAPA itself, 3/4 of the rural community, 1/4 of state. It was supposed to be revised a year ago. Does the senator know where that conversation is?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u184	A respectable president. No, I just don't have a clue where it says it, any more than we, who are standing here at the Council. I don't know that the European Union is in some business discussion about that. There's nothing I know about. Regarding the right person to choose his place, of course, he should be as clear as our right to choose where we want to live. But this has often been so that large rural areas have been creating resources for the number of deserts. I'll mention, for example, the city of Reykjavík or Smokenes, with the small communities around it. So this often becomes so that they need to build up this social service inside the polls, such as Reykjavík, and that's how it wants to be. However, something would have to be done so that the local communities around Reykjavík would do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good review of this matter. I'd like to move a little bit over to the country level, as easily as there's talk with a boy. A member of the Parliament who is an experienced member of the unit, dwelling on the situation in which we live, the legislator, decides by a sentence of law to perform a service -- which is a basic human rights service, services to people with impaired equipment, impaired options - but determined at the same time that the rural communities will care for the cost of three quarters. It is often spoken of here at the Hall of Congress that we do too much of such things, and I know that very often this is spoken of at the United States Society scene. I know this was a lot said about in the last conference. At that time, the need for rural society to take over and render such basic services was much discussed. Mano. A senator after the discussion of the sentences of these necessary laws, i.e. what was discussed, what was the attitude of rural society toward carrying 75% of the cost? What were we talking about between you guys? Farmers are already dealing with certain non-employed revenue models.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u186	A respectable president. I think it was this way, since this group moved to rural society, that the rural communities were concerned about the development of the jury, not because they weren't willing to perform elaborate services, but because they lacked funds. NPA contracts are expensive, like the highest level. Minister said. There are now several NPA contracts requested in my rural society that cost from 15 million to 50 million. You know, it can really fuck a small group, and it's really bad to have to say that. We were concerned that the local community was being put on increased loads. Smokeytown is of the size that might be the Southnes'community that could handle this. But calculated as this group of paintings, hundreds of millions of dollars, accumulated, is absolutely ahead of us. This is a group that is being treated by rural society and that is beyond his control. This must take place between the members of the community and the State on how this service is performed. It must be given, but it must be discussed and agreed on how to finance it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's very interesting to look into the reviews of the relationship at this time. It examines how matters are being handled in the North countries, and it has clearly been determined how common it is in the North countries that all management and extramarital arrangements with these types of contracts are entirely in the hands of rural communities, and then I'm talking about the management, the whole project. One is to perform this service, the other is the whole process surrounding it, requiring a thorough investigation of the type of service required and which individuals may be involved in it. But it is stated in a local notes that the report speaks of 60% in the hands of rural communities, but in fact, the percentage was much lower, that the rural communities may have been taking care of about 101.715% of this sector, of which, of course, is considerably lower. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Again, the problem falls heavily on the communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u188	A respectable president. This calls for a discussion on the division between state and rural society. The presence of the population has made the level of service increasing. We cannot compare what we were doing for disabled people 20 years ago and what we are doing now. This is just another reality we're looking at. We also, if we watch elementary school, we'll have a whole different service in high school. The villas - we were just thrown out of time, and then we were just playing soccer. But that's not the way it is today. We are dealing with many problems and trying to help people develop and become members of society. But we don't have money. If your community is to care for all this service, you must follow it with money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u189	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the story, and I'd like to, like many others who've been here before, to gain only insight into this from the perspective of the local government and the local community. There is a task being assigned to a community, but it is not being financed sufficiently. There are also three fourths of the cost to the rural population without any change in their VAT at the same time. Is such a course unique? Or it is very common for the government to say: "Here is the project, rural society, to take care of it. ' You may be given a certain amount of money, but not too much. Yeah, and then you don't get any more money, you just have to cut down on something else. There's been a lot of discussion now, for example. About nursing homes and other matters in a country where local communities have been reporting such projects. Has there ever been such a discussion in connection with this, that the communities simply report these agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u190	A respectable president. I think it often came up, not only in that rural society where I live, but in many rural areas, whether it was not right to give these classes back, as many societies did, to the nursing homes because they couldn't handle it. And although the jury has basic schools at home with the local communities, it is the local community that handles the construction, construction, staff, pay, and then the government's mines and rural communities have to follow it, so that such items can be passed on to the rural population. Besides, is being a disabled person just a question, is he sick? What is the definition of disability, disease, or social service? There are often gray areas. We see disputes that have taken place in Reykjavík, between the state and the local community, about whom the service was to be performed. Was it the State to provide nursing services or the community to render social service? These are the gray areas that we are constantly dealing with. We have young disabled persons who need a lot of service, even a nursing service that is really needed, but it affects their rural communities. But little children just want to stay at home with Mom and Dad, and they don't want to be in the hospital forever. Therefore, we need to deal with this as such, it's a service to the individual, but we don't want to argue about who's going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u191	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm sorry, so I personally know of people who have just fled the country, gone to other northern countries to get such agreements. But I'd like to have some. A senator to put his to labor hat on, we enjoy changing hats. Today, largely because of security, there is a period of rest, not only for security of the employee but also for the safety of the person being involved. The paper with the bill says that it is often a difficult job to do. Are we not challenging ourselves by doing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u192	A respectable president. As I said before, we're talking about acquired rights when we talk about rest time. It was just made through collective agreements. We're still adding. In recent labour contracts and agreements, work hours are looked forward to shift workers, to so - called better work hours, and are being looked forward to people who have to do shift work hours should work shorter hours. It's normal to be looking at this group the same way, except that I'm concerned, because I've been involved in fighting for certain rights, that they stay and don't want to give a discount, because it sets an example for more people. That's why I want a welfare committee to take a special look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u193	A respectable president. Here we discuss one important issue that involves the usefulness of personal help, including the very important rights of disabled persons. For this reason, I don't want to talk about this precise change, which is all too late, as it were so extraordinary when it comes to the righting of disabled people, but simply to go over the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, whom the Icelandic government has validated but not legally established. We validate this contract, I think, 2016 so since then -- it's a little late and I'm pretty slow in the account - six years. I don't even feel like we started doing this deal. I took several terms from the contract, and I'm not halfway with him, and I know I'm not gonna get through all of this in this speech, but there's always reason to remember this because it's a human rights contract that's been decided to put on ice. Whether it's a conscious decision or with apathy, I don't really care, just as bad whether it is. I just want to review this contract established by the Icelandic government, but I'm totally indifferent when it comes to legalizing it. Let's start with the regular commitments found in Article 4. The deal. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Member States commit themselves to promote and fully ensure all human rights and basic freedoms for all disabled people without any form of discrimination on the basis of disability. Member States commit themselves to this purpose: a) to accept all relevant legislation and measures in the management sector and other measures to ensure the rights approved by this contract. This is where we enter the PA, the greeting, and the fact that we're not even meeting the salatan and some other things that I'm going to get back to. But in the b-party, it says: ▪ Making all appropriate measures, including legal requirements, in order to ensure that existing laws, regulations, habits, and practices, which include discrimination to disabled persons, change or withdrawal. This is where I'd like to stop, a respectable president, because as I've come in many times, and I actually joined my virgin debate at the council, happy memories, our legal laws, e.g. Still clear and direct discrimination against disabled people. Simply put, there is a law allowing for loss of freedom on the basis of mental illness, if the person has a serious mental illness or is likely to have it. If there's a chance you're insane, you can be freed or your condition can be dealt with as severely insane. It's amazing. If you act like a seriously insane person, we have the right to deprive you of your freedom. This is our law today, just one example of how well we're doing in the legal fixation of this contract. This is actually something that wouldn't need this contract to be completely forbidden. This is something that has been pointing us to since 1994 of no smaller parties than the European Commission on defenses against torture and other inhuman or disrespectful treatments or punishments. Since 1994 we have been made aware of this discrimination against the disabled people in our laws, and so far back, apathy has passed that not one government since that time has suffered the loss of these laws. Next comes C- team, by permission of presidents: ▪ Taking into account the protection and promotion of human rights for disabled persons on all policies and planning. We have heard in the discussion on this matter that in the already existing financial programme it is not expected to increase the MPA contracts despite the clear legislation that the contracts should be much more than they already are. Just one example of taking into account the protection and promotion of human rights to all policies and planning. It's just forgotten about the financial plan. At any rate, we can forget that they will be granted increased rights by this five-year financial program of this government, which so often decorates with human rights on days but is so reluctant to make them come true, especially if they cost something. But I say here, a respectable president, that human rights gains and they are worth it, indeed. If we choose to be such a community that human rights are really worth anything, then all we have to do is pay for it. It's as simple as that. Perhaps you could have done something for these 700 million people that some private friends received at the same time for selling banks to their friends the other day, just one example of priorities. I'm going to move to the next team, d- team: ▪ Not doing anything contrary to this agreement, making sure that the government and organizations work in harmony with its regulations. We've been talking about how the State is moving very hard toward their rights, for example. micro-organisms, including micro-e.g. To a disabled woman who seeks to be a foster parent. The public is very hard against the rights of disabled people, just grossly hard on chapters, so we are not meeting that law. And I'm just here in the introduction to this contract, on the general commitment, on a contract that thinks there's a lot of articles, and I'm just getting started and we don't have any of this. Then the E- force: ▪ Making all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination on the basis of disability on the part of every individual, organization, or private person. It is now, a respectable president, that I think it was 2018 that we passed a prohibition against discrimination on the grounds of race or background and color status, and it was not allowed to set a general law that similarly prohibited discrimination on the basis of disability and other discrimination factors. It had to be examined so much better and put on some committee and delayed, delayed, delayed, joined some 70 staff. At the time, I felt that this was just unfair and strange and incomprehensible, and I made it a challenge to draw the highest force. In the case of a social minister, Einar Daðason, to this pontta, to state that the other discrimination factors would be introduced into the law within a year after the sentence of this law. He did it just to keep me comfortable, I think, but it turned out that he just got rid of this aspect of his Ministry this year, came to prime minister, and then didn't have to fulfill the big words, and she's not yet finished because this legislation is currently being treated at the council four years later. Well, there's a lot to do, as is indicated here in these introductions, all the appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination on the basis of disability. Right. It takes only four years longer than to eliminate discrimination on the basis of other discrimination factors. Then I'm going to step 3 of 4. ... whichis the general commitment I am referring to, a respectable president, and it says: In the face of development and induction of legislation and policy in the induction of this contract and in another decision-making process regarding disabled people's affairs, Member States should have close consultation with the disabled and ensure that they are involved, including disabled children, through a means by which they are represented. It's like not going to the NPA organization to make a bill on MPA services. Right on. Get a talk. Or like, for example. to have no exact consultation with users of mental health care when it was being legalized like forced force and I don't know what to do with people who actually use all health care services, and just general application forced, injection down, tying them down, forcing urine tests, monitoring their use of the Internet, forbidding them to go out into the country or to call a phone call or get calls. All of this was done without any consultation with users of mental health care. But of course, we can't expect something like talking with disabled persons, even intimate consultations, as we already validate, in small Iceland. Well, we're so small and we can't really do anything right, we're such a human rights louse that we always enjoy drawing ourselves as an international human rights superpower. But then when we get here, we're so small and so much chocolate that you can't do anything. Besides, there's no money, and there's really no time to finish it. We'll have to do this some other time. The human rights of disabled people are always put on hold. Then I'll turn to the 5th floor. The contract, the equality and the prohibition of discrimination. I've only gone into this, but it says, - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Member States acknowledge that all people are equal in law and are entitled to the same protection and balance of law without any discrimination. 2. The Member States should forbid any discrimination on the basis of disability, ensuring equal and effective justice protection against discrimination for any reason. 3. The Member States should, in order to promote equality and eliminate discrimination, take all appropriate measures to ensure that disabled persons meet appropriate adjustments. I've not even come to the part of our access, a respectable president, because we're falling on every one of these tests that's been put here and I've just covered two articles in this contract that we've already confirmed six years ago. We can't even meet the basics, like the prohibition on discrimination, equality, these overall commitments, the introduction to the contract. How can a person be expected to note that he is over a head to introduce the more complex components of this bill? Like, for example. what I did earlier in return to what I did. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, about who turned to disabled people for not being imprisoned just because they were disabled. It is true, therefore, that the issue of liberation alone is not considered to be a mental illness, that it is likely that it is, or that the condition of the patient is such that it can be compared to having a serious mental illness. Hello, hello. How many people have ever lived in a place in their lives that they could be compared to a serious mental illness? We can legally expect our freedom to be removed from mental illness. In real life, there is no requirement for any expert assessment of the specific mental illness you are suffering from, or whether you or others, some of the threats to your mental illness or a condition that can be compared to a serious mental illness. No, it's enough that you have a serious mental illness, which is not important, or that you are likely to have a serious mental illness, yes, or that you behave as if you have a serious mental illness, even if it is not for your health problems. That is enough to deprive disabled people of their freedom and just ordinary people with some form of mental condition. I've only got two minutes left, a respectable president, and I haven't reached the access point of the important law, but I'd like to get it to anything in particular. That's a 9. The protocol involved in bioavailability. It is a special duty in Member States to enable disabled persons to live their own lives and to have a full share in all aspects of life, and we should take appropriate measures to ensure the equal availability of disabled people to their material environment, transportation, information, and communication, including communication and other facilities or services made available to the common people. This is very important. Similarly, number 2 is shown in number 9. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: To facilitate access to buildings and other facilities that are open to the public, f) strengthening other appropriate forms of assistance and support to disabled persons in order to ensure their access to information. These and other things give people the responsibility to provide all the help they need in order to have an active and normal share in the community. This we do not do by saving the adults, young, disabled people, in nursing homes, or by saying goodbye to those who are disabled or by robbing them of the right to make decisions simply because they are disabled and so on. I think it's perfectly clear, even in this brief review and I'll definitely go to another when it comes to this matter. Um, because I don't feel enough about the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people whom we're supposed to have recently legalized. [[The president calls.]] If we're serious about this, we won't let this wait another six years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I generally believe that this group of paintings, the condition of people with disability, is simply too small to discuss here in this hall on the broader foundation. It is usually discussed by challenges, problems, but usually not by ways of improving opportunities and improving quality of life, based on a positive approach to how to build up. Hv. A senator was discussing the seminary a bit ambiguous, the contract that will legalize, but part of the quality of life is the right to participate in a workforce, the right to a job venture. This has made quite a difference in the fact that there is a missing group in the community. I'm asking if the senator shares with me that we're in the community missing out on great opportunities, i.e. when there is a group that in many cases is simply left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u195	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. Senator. I don't think this group is just left behind, it's simply out of being able to do business and from being able to share in society with others. That's why I'm going over this deal. This agreement was not intended and not intended to bring new rights to the disabled. Rather, it was designed to cause disabled people to enjoy rights just like others. The fact is, they just don't. And it is possible that this enormous limited access to disabled people to the residue of this model and this attitude, which is still prevalent in many ways toward disabled people, who are clients who have to serve and protect and serve, almost like children. This is the attitude that disabled people have said war on their hands, and I mean it in the most positive sense of their expression. They want to leave what is referred to as a welfare model of disability or carer model to a human right - bent approach, to the independence struggle of disabled people - from constantly being placed into a booth after their disability, being on some sort of treatment. They are always being cured, whether by insanity or any other disability, instead of taking the opportunity, as it were. A senator comes in so well, gives them the opportunity, and sees the opportunity to recognize the obvious truth that disabled people are equal to others and are to enjoy rights according to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u196	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator says that it is not enough to validate the contract, that it needs to be legalized. If we look at the whole picture, we can see, for example. Our education system. The reality is still that education is access to disabled young people, e.g. after high school, it's limited. The only change that explains it is disability, no one else. We take right of young disabled people to start their own home, to move away from home. The provision for housing is limited. The only change that explains why this is their disability. It's also this point I mentioned in my previous answer with fewer opportunities for a job market. So it is a youth - speaking theme, then it is the time of youth, and it is growing up. I think it's important to keep this up because even if you're telling the obvious truth, sometimes they want to forget that it's a wide variety of people from all kinds of people, from all age groups, from Iceland, elsewhere from home, with different needs. Somehow, we need to approach our opportunities, as we do with everyone else. Because we're talking about opportunity, I just wanted to mention again that this is relevant to each person's opportunities, but I think that we are also removing the whole community opportunities when we come in contact with one group in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u197	A respectable president. I just agree completely, society is missing many opportunities. But we look, too, like a dog. A senator shows up, past the diversity within this group. When we take him as only one size, which is disabled, we forget how many different groups are. I'd like to take an example from the language involved, and I might know what is best. It is about the law that I have spoken very extensively in this discourse and would like to have a general review of. Congress has agreed to have a full review, but it goes on slowly, as is so much related to this series of issues. It is a very difficult situation to believe that people who are disabled are always being deprived of legal rights. It is being taken from the right to make decisions and put it in the hands of some lawyer or person. The person is not trusted to make decisions because he or she has some limited ability to make decisions. That's another story. But this too is totally wrong with the contract. These people should be supported in making decisions but should not take their right to make decisions. However, I find that there is a milder alternative that is sometimes used, especially for older people who are suffering from dementia or something like that. They can employ a steward who assists them in making decisions, but it is significantly less intervention in their rights and freedom than it is to be deprived of legal rights, an enormous intervention, that is, to deprive people of the right to use their rights. Those who are mature cannot take advantage of this milder measures because some of them cannot sign a declaration of being with a steward. In fact, there are people who are discriminated against among themselves, i.e. when it comes to reduced access to disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u198	A respectable president. I would like to address this matter, which, of course, matters of great importance, and I will allow myself to say a fundamental interest in the lives of the people involved. The bill in itself is not complicated and explains itself. It is designed to improve quality of life. But I wanted to talk about a subject that we're talking about now quite often, which is this division between state and rural society. We hear that there is a growing burden of criticism on the part of the local community, legitimate criticism, I would like to say, as they point out that it is easy to strike knights, I would like to say, on the part of the government, by putting on beautiful laws with beautiful commandments but the account is sent elsewhere, he is sent to the countryside. It's not that it's that big to do that with your local societies, but when you look at each picture, it's going to be a lot blacker for the people who are supposed to enjoy the ministry. I wanted to get close to this case, too, as my fine sister, okay? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, mentioned earlier, that when we're talking about the NPA deal, we're talking about maybe one of the biggest freedoms in Iceland today. It may rhyme with the conversation I had with why. paritaprevir Thorhjörn Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir for freedom and opportunity. But what I wanted to say was that. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson asked for the exact question related to this subject on how the state and rural society were working, where she asked the highest. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers, Daðason Eða Dædson, how the Minister of Ministers should define the priorities of candidates for these services, of NPA contracts, which we know to address the fundamental interest in the lives of people who are given these contracts, when it is handled by budgets for 120- sitting130 contracts - we know they are expensive - to the end of 2022, but it was predicted that they would never meet the need for the service. So here we have legalization, and then we have an error, and then we have the reality that our goals cannot be achieved because of the lack of money. However, an honest answer that in itself is correct is that setting priorities for candidates on the basis of the rules they set for themselves is the responsibility of the local community. But this is a special approach, and especially when we keep in mind the interests under it, we have laws about serving disabled people. That song is a frame law. We have guidelines that need to be in harmony with a so-called legal rule. The rural communities have a legal responsibility for the implementation of their services and are to set up more detailed implementation rules so that the legislatures have given them a specific task that is legally under obligation to do and provide but are not funded. I think it needs to be kept in mind when we're here with this bill for treatment. That's good, and I like it, but it doesn't change these realities. And we'll see again that when we discuss e.g. On impact evaluations, there is one brief and repugnant statement: If the bill seems to remain unconcerned, it will not affect the financial resources of the state. That's right. But the reality is unchanged in this regard, i.e. The financial situation. But at the end, I'd like to come in on something else, because now we're looking at the impact of a prime project, not just out of financial interests, but out of equality. Now, of course, the staff working in this sector and providing this service is in a position for women. Women are in much more of a position to take care of the country. Then you can assume that the rules I support have more influence on women than on men. Of course, this need to be kept in mind, and it should be taken into account, too, when we consider the reality outside the workforce regarding the other woman's load of care and its consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u199	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator on the tour. I'd just like to ask about the vision in the laws about serving those who are disabled with long-term needs, as if in this stairway of the NFL implementation of temporary regulations and in reexamination of the operation within three years of the law's execution. That deadline ran out a year ago. So you naturally wonder, " Where are we going to go? ' And how long can it be held, not just a service, but a access to the basic rights of people in hostage that states and rural groups can't fit in from each pocket on the same pants should take the money? I think that everyone, except for an elected agent, is even no matter which part of the government is that of this cost. People just want the service, people only want this human rights, whether the communities pay 75% or 70%, as I'd like them to pay. This is not to be of any importance. This stairway of a number of contracts between the years indicates that some number will be the final result, but can we have some salutation inside this law for long periods of time? Do they not have to be more general?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u200	A respectable president. I might get to start at the end of the night. Senator. Of course, it should be so that there are plenty of people with need for services that govern a number of contracts, that there are the opening points, but not the possibility of making a certain number of contracts and then priorities should be arranged after the number of contracts. The opening point must be the service people need. Because the senator mentioned that people do not think of the size of the section that the local community pays against the State, this is a matter of service, it is always memorable for me to have been a short time at the Department of Social Affairs, which was then in bed with the Ministry of Health, two members of the same house. There, saving one branch almost always led to an increase in expenses in the other wing, the health and welfare issues. I think countries should take it upon themselves to try to make matters right so that the conversation can become a joint project. Another would be sin and shame. To say that, I'm very sympathetic to my rural society. We see manifestations of God's Word in front of the lowly, and they receive privileges that they do not have to carry out. But then we can see at the same time tailor-made rules like that. On the equation fund. Reykjavík is there in such a situation that I believe, all children of foreign origin, but the rule is that every community can receive support from the fund other than the population of 70,000 people, one of the rural areas of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u201	Mr. President. I have always been struck by these laws, which have long been allowed to pull my feet. The law was approved in 2018. They were to be reviewed three years later, even to that end. to expand the ministry. Yet, we still have not come to the top of the induction, as expected in a provisional principle. In fact, we are in the area we should have been between 2018 and 2018. I am not sure that any group would offer such a service hall. I share it with what? A senator well understands the status of the rural communities, which often have to be paid very high by the size of one MPA contract. But this should not be a problem for the community, and this should certainly not be a problem for the individual needing the service. That is what we always find in, when these imaginary walls between these two arms of the government cause a lack of service to the common people, that they are the least of them. Me and what. A senator is sitting together on an environment and transport committee, and we've been discussing how crazy it is in the energy system that there's the full demand drive; if anyone comes and claims to want to build a bitcoin source, that energy should only be provided. [[The president calls.]] But this is the opposite. Here is the demand for advising, as if a person can choose whether they have a lot of support or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u202	A respectable president. It's an interesting relationship with what's happened. A senator, that the approach is this, when it is associated with the meeting we had last session this morning, in conjunction with the energy issues. I might have wanted to finish my speech by saying that we're still in these pieces. I support the bill here, the step being taken. Because we would succeed in establishing the contract, we would naturally be in the position of simply getting closer to the earth than we now are. We'd get out of the situation we're stuck in, and unfortunately we've been in for years. We know that before the law became a law, people had waited for years to receive service that not only improved quality of life but also a fundamental factor in their ability to live normal lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07.u203	A respectable president. I saw it compelled me to come back here after this discussion and remind us that we are talking about the human rights of people under the contract we've already signed. But like many other things that happen here, they are only now empty, a UN agreement on the rights of disabled people. As these laws, this support, this for the benefit of people, were at least someone needs to evaluate how many individuals would need to render this service. The figure was no doubt much higher than 172, the figure people were given the hope of at least the number of contracts to be made this year. But the truth is, only 90 treaties have been made. This means that 82 individuals who lived in the hope of living a normal life were betrayed. We should not forget that we are talking about people. We're not just talking about some numbers, we're talking about people who are entitled to this service. We are talking about their relatives and friends who care for those individuals and who help them without any benefits or benefits. There are some cases where people had to flee, e.g. to Sweden to get a decent service for their children, to form disabled children. As a government and as a General Assembly, we need to stop praising people for services without ensuring financial support. We need to stop making commitments to our rural society without ensuring that income. We've been talking about priorities. The government had no problem with spending billions of dollars in a new department. She does not consider it easy to throw billions of dollars into giving money to friends and relatives when selling state property. It's a government that will cut off the weak so those who have the most. This is, as we have noted, a celebration of human rights. You're supposed to be ashamed to treat people this way.
