ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u1	A letter has been received by the President from the social and workforce minister, where he wishes to provide written answers to the requested application. 110, U.S. National Insurance Agency, Óli Björn Kárason's office, and on the inquiries. 128, Social Security Insurance, by Björn Leví Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u2	Mr. President. I would like to discuss the activities of the council, and in what ways we could improve in that subject, it is now primarily in the technical field. I would have thought that when many of the people who come here have written talks, especially when we're on the air that the nation can watch, and perhaps do more than we suspect, it would be more good if a man could look up from the speech, if it was some kind of pushter, or screen like that. Right here, in a convention where you could read from the computer of such a screen and face your people while they make their case, hopefully even more convincing. This is known to all who have been on television or at conferences. It is such a relatively modern standard. And then, too, if you want to give special emphasis to your language and make it a picture - sided tool, such as a screen on a wall connected with a computer, with emphasis on the language and pictures. I can say this, firsthand, that many more memorable, clearer, and enjoyable speeches have been made. And finally, because we're here on a live television broadcast, although some of us may have been stolen from paying attention to something other than the Allied Council at this point of the national game, I would suggest that we revere broadcast videos and make the broadcast much more fun for those watching.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u3	A respectable president. In 2020, 106 individuals died in a country where their cause of death was defined as mental and behavioural disorder. Mental and behavioural disorders are the sixth leading cause of death in Iceland according to statistics from the surgeon general that year. That same year 47 people died because of suicide, and 37 people died from drug abuse. A report on health and health care in 2021 revealed that 7.5% of hospitalisations in 2019 were due to mental and behavioural disorders. Despite this high proportion, the decision has been made to reduce the number of insurgents at a mental hospital by ten. The presidents of the Land Hospital argue this closing by saying that there is a shortage of doctors and nurses at the hospital. The same can be said of a lack of staff in mental health wards in the capital health care area. It is old and new that Iceland is responsible for all kinds of drug abuse in the North. In 2018, there was a fifth woman in Iceland who was addicted to antidepressants, 11,000 persons on hypnotics, and the use of hazardous sedatives, as Oxycontin has greatly increased in recent years. In 2011, 500 people received this medicine, but last year 3,500 people received the same medication. As a result, in 2018 nursing homes, there were 55% and more than half of those in nursing homes in one or more antipsychotic homes. The same is true of children in Iceland using antipsychotics and sedatives. We're on the wrong track when we're putting records in antipsychotics and sleeping drugs in the North, and there'll be too many premature deaths because of this. I demand that something be done in these matters right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u4	Mr. President. I'm gonna be on the positive side today. This week a socioeconomic analysis of the benefits of the Sunway revealed quite interesting reports. The results of the analysis are that the project, whether via a bridge or a tunnel, has much social benefits and is considered to be a socially acceptable process. National benefit from Dizziness as determined by the analysis is estimated to be 186/236 billion. until the next 30 years. This is a transport process that not only saves time, increases quality of life, increases safety and distances but also provides a environmental advantage, as total driving in the capital area could decrease by 150,000 miles per day. It reduces carbon dioxide emissions and reduces road erosion. The road will be crucial for all who travel to and from the capital, transport reforms that will have a positive impact on urban development, employment and habitat conditions in Western countries, as well as for reducing traffic on other stockways. This is a huge progress. This is the largest development of Iceland's history, and this report is turning out to be a turning point. That's why I want to thank you especially the highest. Minister of wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who has led this project in the spirit of a policy of cooperation with the Agency and has put it in a stable position. Exquisite preparation provides a solid basis for good works. I hope that our current plans will be successful and that the Sunway will begin on set time in 2026 and that 2031 will be used. I will celebrate every phase of this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u5	President. I want to start by saying I'm not watching the game. I find it interesting that handball games affect votes at the Council, but all right. I would like to discuss the activities of the council, as it were. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon has done this before, but from another point of view. There seems to be a huge misunderstanding among people in general that when you talk about smaller things and more things, which is certainly a fact of being here at the council, it is not true. Here are groups of people who take part in the program and classes that have only access to the council's public speakers. It's not about more parts and smaller parts, because, really, the votes of the part don't really matter. That's the program management, the program, which really matters. It's 100% against 0%, not more part and smaller things. I say this in mind that this is an attempt to change the council of Congress week, e.g. magazines for short work weeks and stuff like that. Now the situation is that we have a meeting until the end of the week. 8 most days. Not on Fridays, but they can stand until midnight on Tuesday. There is an enormously unfashionable environment to work up on a work surface and a number of such factors, rather than a more balanced situation on this day out and in and the year back and forth. I would like to direct the council members to think in the coming weeks, when we are trying to come together the Council's work programme, about the inside organization of the week, and about the imbalance between those taking the program and those who have to try to work within the oppression, as I feel. If anyone accepts the majority power, taking 100% part in the program, then it's beginning to be perfunctory.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u6	V.E.G. President. I come up here to draw attention to myself. Congress members of a new report published yesterday on social and economic status and elimination from Icelandic colleges written on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Culture by the National Institute of Education and Culture, Kolbeinn H. Eyjólfsson and Eiríkur. This is a very significant study, and the analysis of the elimination involves considering this in a different angle than usual. Instead of turning attention into the school system alone, you are looking at the picture from the social and economic background of young people and people in high school. What turns out and should not surprise many, is that there are two variables, two factors that have much, perhaps the most impact, along with some degree of learning. It is parental education and a parent's total income. So it is clear or conclusive to this report that living in a income - color home, living in poverty makes you more likely to get out of high school or to be unable to finish school. Something tells you it's something we should know, at least Here at the High General Assembly, however, the actions to support the fact that children and young people have all equal opportunities and that they cannot always study will not always have the support they need within the Generals. I think that the next time we take into consideration support for family members, whether child support or otherwise, we should talk about the ideal disability, single parents, and other groups in the community, we should be prepared to read this report and see the blackness in the whites the best way we can protect public funds to strengthen and support them in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u7	A respectable president. A recent report reports that no more Icelanders have released as many addictive drugs as last year. It also shows that the population of this country uses a lot more of the energy, the nerves, and the mental powers than people in other parts of the North. It has been observed that there is an all - out opioid epidemic. Why? Yes, because thousands of sick people are on the waiting list for vital hip, knee, or other orthopaedic surgery. Therefore, dependence on addictive medicinal products is always increasing and increased. Yes, because people are unworkable and bedridden with work but on a waiting list for years. It's denied service in this country, but it's safe to go abroad for three times as much expensive. Personalized experts are called into LSH because of the Covid porpoise to help, but they must not help three people on a waiting list for the costs of one to go abroad. The number of these medicinal products remains to increase. For months or years, how many people are affected by the use of narcotics? How many people are on the waiting list, bringing the person slowly and bites into addiction, damages, or merely disability. Let's stop the waiting list and make sure that those in need of a vital operation receive it immediately. To harm people with unnecessary ingestion of harmful opiates, even for years, on a home waiting list, is absurd and all of us in this room are shamed. 3,000 Icelanders were being prescribed addictive drugs. How many were on chemotherapy? How many people are taking such drugs needlessly because they are kept on a waiting list?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u8	A respectable president. We're in a familiar position. Despite positive evidence of the epidemic development, governments are still taking much action for individuals and for operators. Right away, the policy was developed to support those who suffer severe damage because of the government's limit of control. Special economic measures have been developed by the government. They include part-time improvement, boxing grants, payments of notice and support loans. The economy of the Icelandic government has been well - timed and succeeds, so international attention has been taken. As economic epidemics continue, economic epidemics will be considered in areas where support is needed. But disease prevention measures have failed to follow the same recipe. The health authorities have not been waiting to increase their limitations, and they have even intensified significantly between government meetings during the same week. When it comes to subsidizing them, with the many - scaled goal that we start living with Covid and retrieving our normal life in mind, the government wants to rush slowly. Thus, we still live in a state of intense disease prevention despite reports of decompositions. There's plenty to take. According to the law, the government is permitted only to use disease prevention measures when it is defined as being at risk of disease and conditions for having a threat to the public. Since the absence of that threat, it is clear to all that time has come. Many of our specialists and health care professionals have already identified this. Therefore, governments have a legal obligation to further reduce limits, no matter what plans and administrations may be made. People and businesses in the country cannot continue to live with measures and restrictions that are not supported by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u9	A respectable president. The sixth calendar of the Generals today is a case in which I propose, not for the first time, but hopefully the last, 350,000 bucks. Minimum growth, tax and inadequacy, for social security employees who have so far been implicated in a massive poverty trap. It was not long since we were campaigning, and it presented the clear will of all political advocates to reevaluate the system, and it would not be to imitate the way we have treated tens of thousands of Icelanders by keeping them in poverty. I just want to reiterate it and remind you that this is the opportunity. The social security system should be reviewed from scratch, and it's fine. I don't know how that work will end for a long time since this new council began work. Before Christmas it was absolutely clear that thousands and thousands of people were standing in long rows to ask for food to at least have a proper Christmas roast on their table. This does not change the fact that 53,000 k. We were put on disability, and it didn't work out -- even though you're not made to be here in favor of government groups, we have to be reasonable. We were high. We called for a change, and not only for this group of people but also for older people in the bottom of three tequilas. The step was set in half, and this Christmas bonus was given to microbubbles of 53,000 bucks, tax and decrepit. We showed that we can work together. We showed that by calling loudly and by being with us, all we can do is listen to us. So it must be done now, we must start to believe it. The stone's dropping and 350,000 dollars, tax and impairmentless, will soon become reality. That's my solid faith.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u10	A respectable president. When I sat here at a council, I had this dream that we, sitting here, could work together to improve the interests of all the people of the country. But if this legislation develops in the same way as the last session, we'll see the administrative part coming up late with a big, big case they wish they'd run through. And we will see the government stand using its one weapon; to speak for as long as possible to slow down the Senate work until the end of Congress. Only then will representatives of the government and government sit down and negotiate their progress, a case of great dissatisfaction within the opposition. They'll be postponed until next year. A case that the government can accept will be established and then the parties of the government stand allowed to choose the 1◯2 basics or the Senate conclusions being made on a program for their not having a language theme. Then people ask themselves, " Why can't the council fix all the overcrowded systems we live in? ' Sadly, the answer is simple: The Matrix is simply not mature enough in communication to work together to improve the community in which we live. Yes, I still have the dream that me and the senators will develop to improve the practice in this area, that cases are actually discussed, and that we listen to criticism and work in finding the golden average that everyone can accept. Yes, I believe in the dream that the work of the Generals will be raised to a higher level, and it is my hope that as most members of Congress dream of the same dream.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u11	A respectable president. Last night the minister of culture announced that the government had decided to protect $450 million. K. to fight in the interest of the music and stage art sector because of a global epidemic of crown virus. The government resolved to support art and culture throughout the pandemic, giving a clear witness on this and on a few of these during the past two years. Since there is great opportunity for artists to encourage creation, it is vital that we support this sector. Icelandic artists have a lot of business abroad. and among its actions, there is a special contribution to the export centre of Icelandic music, a music fund, and the To work centers. This is a handsome support for articles that have been badly affected by the epidemic in which the goal is to ensure a high level of procreation resistance to start-up. The global epidemic has had a profound negative impact on the economy over the past 22 months, and recession has had a profound impact on cultural resources, especially on the majority of those in its sector. Thus, musical dishes for concerting in 2021 were made 87% lower than the corresponding income in 2019. Then, the epidemics as a result of the premeditation and the closing measures have made independent theaters and playgroups very badly. A respectable president. This is a very important task for many people, both for the people of music and for those who are in stage arts that will promote the future culture. This has given rise to funds and organizations, with the goal of reaching as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u12	Mr. President. Most are known to be part of a silica plant's conflict history in Helgavík. When the factory was working, many residents in its area had to seek medical attention because of pollution. Eventually, the business was stopped, and Anion Bank took the factory over a debt. The bank was then going to sell it again, and it generally expressed joy in the plans for its inhabitants in the area. In other words, there has been a great opposition among residents of the city of Rhinestown and this factory, perhaps understandable. Recently, in Húsavík, we learned that the owners of the plant at the Bak of Húsavík wanted to buy the silica plant in Helgavík. They have produced a strong response among residents of the city of Rhines, who fear that they will be able to rebuild the factory. State funds or taxpayers supported handsome support in the herbal plant at Húsavík. In this way a government fund 3,525 million in special tunnels alone paid for the factory that is not to be used by the common people, 460 million on construction projects in the factory, and 236 million because of the staff's training costs. The company then received 40% off port fees for 14 years. Mr. President. Now I do not reduce the importance of the silica plant at Bakka for the North Parliament, but I am not right, as it were, that the company pays back $221 billion. K. what it gained from taxpayers before investing in a contaminated factory in Helgavik that the people do not want?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u13	A respectable president. Thus, the public in Iceland may not wonder when he makes use of a public service who pays for it, but only if this service is available. The fact is, though, that when there is a need for a means of service, a person who serves as a donor always takes a blow. If there is no proper medical services and resources for older people, such as government custody, a community government will be short. It brings to mind a division of states and rural groups, but it leads to income exchange. There is no doubt that serving as close as possible to people is the right thing to do. This makes the ministry more human and makes it easier for all communication. In 2011, rural society took over the issues of basic schools and the affairs of the disabled, and since then these groups have only grown and grown. With increased demands of service and higher wages, these groups of languages cannot do anything else. At that time, certain rural groups do not legalize them, such as playmates, building monuments for sports and leisure work, and performing a variety of services that are both normal and self - righteous. Thus, the debate on farm income populations has been loud without having reached acceptable conclusions. The system is designed so that most rural communities find it difficult to fulfill their assigned tasks, and many of them find it difficult to achieve a positive management point. There will be significant investments in infrastructures, such as school and sports constructions, spills, and a new building with population growth. It is therefore essential that the review of municipal income stocks is going on rapidly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u14	A respectable president. One of the eternal challenges of young people is how to handle your own money. A search of the General's Web for financial lock reveals a great deal of debates, conferences, and reviews that present the term, especially after a collapse. The aim of improving the financial stability of individuals is clear; to improve the ability to make informed decisions about their financial situation, to help people to self - help, and as tools to improve social conditions, and to provide government support. I'd like to call attention to two factors that support the importance of a major financial lock. The first factor is the effect of Covid on young people's finances. It is important that we cherish our young ones as a result of the pandemic, but its effect on the financial situation of individuals remains fully unknown to us, as far as the economic impact affects individuals. In most elementary and advanced schools, financial locks are taught, but criticism is the quality of teaching, the study, and the time spent in the class. Also, as in other subjects, learning results in financiallination are rarely appreciated. The second point is financial lock link to equality. Women have less money than men. To promote financial stability depends on the authority of women to make decisions about their own money. The environment that only the boys can talk about Bitcoin and the stock market has to become a common gender chat. Thus, we need to promote a change of viewpoint toward a perceived financial discussion. The threshold is still there. Our goal must be to destroy it. So I'd like to draw the real attention to all the Ministers on this case, and I'm going to protect you from the list, and how many smells of society really touch the financial lock.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to three members of the council that I'm moving here after 12 years and now as a deputy for a few days. There are matters that are about to Eelfjörður. The spray cord is extremely dangerous, as one knows. On January 16, there were six avalanches, and the winter of 2018 fell to 61 avalanches. This is not acceptable for inhabitants of Susvík, nor for people in northern Western lands, to go that way. There has to be an Eelfjörður tunnel that must first enter a revised transport programme, and I challenge the secretary of the infrastructure to do so quickly and effectively. Another thing I've brought up is how the social part of the fishing system is being used. I've asked a question where I wish it to be published and determined how that item has fallen into the hands of each developer and how it will be used in the community, as originally intended. It will be interesting to see that assessment in reply to my inquiry on that subject. Third, I request a bill that beach fishing be ensured for the summer, for 48 days, by the transfer of a fishing warrant between fish years, which I believe is possible, within the scientific counseling of Mariro. It has been done more than once in various ways to allow fishing grounds between the ages. Coastal fishing has to be ensured this summer. There's so much behind in these settlements, and it's not supposed to happen that this group in the fishing business, which is struggling to keep their little fleet of fishing and to create jobs in the country, and to ensure working in these ill places, the small sealands - they must be looked to and secure coastal fishing for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u16	Mr. President. A report has now published showing what most people likely knew about, unless perhaps the mayor of Reykjavík and the secretary of transportation, shows that a circuit is an enormously efficient project and practicality even goes to a third hundred billion dollars. Nevertheless, this project has been thoroughly mixed up. There have often been statements from the current government, even to some extent from the city authorities, about the plans for Dizziness, but nothing has been followed in these areas. In fact, it may go further back and see how reluctant it has been to fulfill the promise of this economic achievement, but this is especially because of city opposition to this project. Its efforts, many of which are fallen for this project, cannot be viewed as different from that of pure opposition. The same was seen in other proposed transport improvements in the capital area, even those projects specifically negotiated in the so-called transport contract of the capital area, where the government took up funding the Community campaign in Reykjavík through a city line against getting them to engage in other remunerations needed to improve the state of traffic in the capital area. At least two presidents of the Council of the Organization of the Society of Reykjavík have since declared opposition to these projects, this real relief project, while all emphasis, with the support of the government, is placed on the much less practical city line. So I believe it is right that the council will follow these issues more closely and push the attack on this important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of European venture capital and European Social Resources. The bill's on the roof. 344 and No. 244. The bill calls for introduction to the European Parliament and Council Regulations' rights. 345/2013 on European Risk Funds and No. 346/2013 of the European Social Resource. Regulation No. 2017/1991 on the change from one of the above EU regulations to the national legislation. The objective of both regulations is to direct private investors to SMEs, thereby increasing job opportunities and growth within the European Economic Area. The main objective of the European Risk Fund is to promote sectoral and capital transport, to foster initiatives and institutions and to promote innovation, and to increase corporate investment in research and development. In contrast, the purpose of the European Community enterprise is to facilitate investors who wish to invest in companies with social objectives to find and select social contributions. At the same time, companies with social goals are making it easier for them to seek financial support in the European Economic Area. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the regulations and the necessary rules, such as the handling of the monitoring, the granting of the regulations and the granting of the affairs of the Ministers and the Council Bank of Iceland for rules. These include conditions that operators need to meet during the marketing of funds in the European economy use the name EuVECA for the financial resources and EuSEF for the social enterprise. This is a term specifically designed to distinguish the structure, the financial resources, and the social enterprise. The main element of the Regulation is, first of all, their set of values, but the regulations apply to the funds considered to be specialized funds. Second, there is the registration of the funds and their operators with a legal authority. Enrollment provides authorization for marketing within the European Economic Area. Third, what investments are considered authorized to provide such funds. The fund needs to invest at least 70% of the total financial contributions and uninhabited funds for which investors have registered in suitable investments. Investment may be 30% of the assets in other assets other than those considered suitable for investments. A fourth rule is who is suitable for investors, but the funds are like other specialized funds intended for professional investors. However, it is permitted to launch the funds for public investors on specific conditions to ensure investment protection. Fifth, consider the other criteria for using the names EuVECA and EuSEF in the market, such as the manner in which the carer handles the funds, the rules of interest drivers, and how to care for the operators' tasks. It also provides conditions for the host's stock and their private capital. In addition, the requirements for property prices, the annual accounts of the funds and the in advance information for investors need to be met. sixth, it is stated that the European stock market agency will keep an official central database on all funds that carry the names EuVECA or EuSEF and their operators, as well as on the countries where the funds are marketed. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill are intended only to influence the operators of specialized funds who decide to provide the specified funds. Such funds are not currently employed, since the Icelandic legal environment has not offered them and there is no demand for them. Certain additional monitoring requirements are added to the registered operators of specialized funds who prefer to offer the specified funds, such as the evaluation of appropriate managers, post-marketing surveillance, business management, management, management modalities, task management, etc. As a result of the proposed legislation at this time, an increase in the activities of Iceland's SEC is not expected, but it is expected that operators will decide to offer these new kinds of funds may increase to some extent. The effectiveness of the implementation of the regulations may be considered negligible, that the projects associated with them are included in the current financial programmes of Iceland's SEC, and the impact on financial funds, therefore, will be absent. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u18	A respectable president. For many, this is no doubt just a matter involving some sort of abbreviations and other things from the European Union. I'm sure they think we're here just following one principle. The truth is, though, that it is very important that we create the environment needed to receive and be here with such funds. This is especially true when it comes to what has been called a green investment, or investing in a responsible social way. We will see very much growth in such funds. Those of us who have observed innovation and what is happening in them know that it is one of the most important parts of the investment world. If we're going to make Iceland a country where we have a lot of green investment, where we're trying to get a foreign budget in order to finance a green innovation project, it's important that we bring in this legal environment and this surveillance environment and other things that this bill is about. I'm glad that there's been a program of translating and doing all the work that needs to be done in order to produce such a bill, making all these pleasant shortcuts, and translating them, to the highest degree. Of course, ministers flock about because they are endless in the European Union. But there's something that's going to make a difference in how to build Iceland as an investment in green innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u19	A respectable president. This synonym is requested by the Generals to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the European Commission and to enter the contract of specific regulations for organic production and the meaning of organic products. Only the second Regulation, Regulation (EU) 2018/848, requires law modification, but replaces older regulations in this field introduced in Icelandic correctly. These include new overall legislation on organic agrienvironment schemes. The aim of regulation (EU) 2018/848 is to simplify the biological production process, strengthen the manufacturing monitoring system, contributes to the responsible use of energy and natural resources, maintain biodiversity and improve animal transport. The rules became valid in the European Union on January 1. It is expected that the European Commission will decide to enter the EU contract on February 4 following. The decision will be made by the government in advance by the government. It is important for Iceland and Norway to take effect against the EFTA countries in the EEA as soon as possible, and therefore this proposal is to seek out the Allied Sources on the removal of administrative orders submitted early. Taking into account the type taken may have serious consequences, including for Icelandic import and export interests. This particularly refers to the import of food for poultry and fish farms. In addition, the necessary proof and Witnesses cannot be published where older rules become out - of - date and new ones have not come into force. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, a decision requires a change of law in this country. For induction, aquaculture and agricultural ministers will contribute to the current legislation panel for a change in law No. 93/1995, on food, and on law No. 22/1994, for monitoring of food, cream and seed products, and for discontinuation of legislation No. 162/1994, on organic agrienvironment production. The government's policy is to increase organic agricultural production in this country. Although the new rules of organic agrienvironment schemes, as well as certification and monitoring, are very simple, they can still provide expense for individual manufacturers who already enjoy certification. This is a relatively small number of cases, but some are. I expect a marine economist and agri-gri-environmental ministers will be more likely to carry on this point when a bill of induction comes to the treatment of the council. The Environmental Affairs and Transport Committee were given Regulation (EU) 2018/848 to review the last legislation committee and did not comment on its recording in the EEA Convention. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u20	A respectable president. We certainly support the well - being of organic crops and organic products in this country. It's a little bad how late this is coming into the council. There are already people who have been trying to import goods from New Year's events that have occurred in it, for example. to have to pay again for your certification because this Regulation is not in place. It is my hope that in the case of the State Department on this matter it will be tried to speed this up, but also to look at it specifically, and this is something that we mention at a meeting with the Food Minister on the job committee, how it has affected the import of organic and biological food, and how it will not be an extra scale for immigrants beyond what is already available. We know, for example. About one immigrant importer from Britain who has a Witness product but has to pay 400,000 dollars. again for receiving the same products of witnesses after the preparation of Bgret at this time of the year. So it is my hope that we can deliver this rapidly to the Foreign Affairs Committee to make sure that organic products are not highly competitive with other products and that this case with Bgret will be considered specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u21	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 214/2020. The decision is to enter the EU contract on a European risk balance, funds and European Community enterprise. It is part of the EEA's budget of financial and financial services, which includes marked changes in the regulations of the marketing of funds. Our objective is to include: to facilitate the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to capital, to increase the size of economic and competitiveness as well as to reduce costs. The potential impact of the implementation of the Regulation is that more operators of specialized funds will be able to implement and market funds as these up-to-date conditions. No such funds are currently operating in Iceland. A respectable president. The decision requires changes in the country, and for those who have been monitored here, financial and economic ministers were just in order to provide a bill for the implementation of the Regulation. It is the financial and economic assessments that the induction of the enterprise will not significantly affect government administration and will not affect the amount of it. I suggest, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be referred to the motion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u22	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. This is about the first and last several adjustments that made during the last days of the year, made by a mistake. This includes: changes in various tax and tax laws. I'll just slide over it. It contains e.g. changes in various tax and tax laws, including to reimburse 100% of the value tax paid for the import or first sale of a new air vessel, an engine or a gas system that uses electricity or hydrogen as energy sources. By mistake, the period was between July 1, 2022, and December 31, 2027. But it was to be on January 1, 2022. Let us say that they will be corrected. In addition, there is a change in the license of road vehicles to reduce the registered emissions of cars by 40%, but to a maximum of 150 g/km. The regulations of 2020 and 2021 were extended in 2022 by law, but were changed to record that carbon dioxide emissions of vehicle should be recorded on the European driving cycle and the standard test method should be submitted according to the validated test method. Sadly, the change led to a significant difference between consumer sales prices in the case of RVs. The decision was made to deal with that condition until a permanent result of the stress of house cars taxing. To cope with this, it is suggested that this year's innuendo also include RVs when emissions are recorded on both levels. This bill also represents changes in the laws on the local payment of public pay, but last week, it was adopted here at the council to postpone public pay and thereby to reimburse and suggest that it go in here, as well as a change, to postpone pay on insurance and markets, that it would spread on four new days. This is, as previously said, first and last correction bill and not much to add. So on behalf of the Committee, I would like to suggest that the bill go straight to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u23	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the lack of tax pay less than 350,000 dollars, tax and inaccessible. This is one of the priorities of the mob and is the members of the Parliament at the proposal of the matter. No one has overlooked the fact that a group of people was established precisely in order to protect those who are in the most palaces in society and have the worst difficulties, to try to improve their terms, to fight for their existence, to make their lives bearable. Our interpretation suggests that the General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister to provide a legal bill for this year's end, 2022, which first states that a so-called fallen personality discount will be taken up to a tax limit at 350,000. and that a personal discount falls down with a curved process at its upper limit. Many ask: What does that mean? So when are you going to start cutting the character discount, it won't take the bite on middlers and the like? It's in the hands of the government. We're trying to point it out there and ask for help to find the right point. The average income is 800,000. per month. We're fighting for those who get 240,500,000,260. in a month's payout. We are calling for corrective correction from what has been left behind and what has not been left behind since the 2008 financial collapse. In fact, there is little involved in this $350,000 coin. tax and inadequacy other than correction, the same correction as all other social groups, including general members. There is nothing fair about a person whose superpowers have over 53,000 bucks. In person discounts, while a man who doesn't have a knife and spoon gets paid back 240,000,250,000. We don't want double-discriminate people. We don't want this roughness. We want a fair, just society to be truly united with those who need it. That's why we're going to say this forever, and if it doesn't work out now, the natural amount, the nature of the matter, will be higher next. It's a social group that's been through Covid like everybody else, it's a social group that's also taking on massive prices but that don't really have any crowns to deal with it. Before the 25th September campaigns, there was a great deal of visible will among the candidates of all categories and their warnings that it should not only take the social security system into account but it would be disturbing to have such a large group of members out of so few dollars, that many of them, after the middle of the month, will not allow themselves to do anything other than oatmeal, noodle, and rice. We don't call this the land of opportunity except for some people. But it is in the hands of the Generals and the Council to reverse it. Second, this arrangement includes changes in response to taxation and income taxation as a result of an increase in taxation limits between state and rural society. So it is that when we are taxed, it is the first answer taken, so it is the rural communities that become of these crowns the most money - consuming, those who fight in the banks. It is totally normal and likely that a government fund is entering to equalize what may result from moving this group to $350,000. tax and inadequacy. Third, the formula, this priority for the people of Stockholm, involves full of disability pensions, rehabilitation pensions, and pensional pensions, guaranteeing 350,000 inhabitants. every month, every month, no tax, no impairment. The report shows that this council proposal has already been made; I recommended it at the 151th legislature, which was 46th, but was not successful. That's why I'm measuring her over and over and over again. We believe that the drop will break the stone, and it must end with that no powerman can turn the blind eye to the poverty and the huge insurrections that tens of thousands of Icelanders are living today. The subject of the proposal was previously found in two recommended suggestions, and we have already fought for this, the Party of the People, since we arrived at a council in December 2017. During the past decade, the Icelandic economy has prospered. Nothing gets out of the way. But, of course, we are going through the crackle of the pandemic. But they are not to be bitten by the people in the land that have been their greatest problem. The curved banks cannot be bent indefinitely, so the crosswoods fail as other trees, and it must end by breaking their backs in continuous bend. Is that what we want, more dignified president? No, but no matter where we look at it, we see it in the community, how vast the misery is. We'll see that in the drop from school. We can see in the way children of poor parents cannot engage in leisure activities, sports, and other activities. We see it in addiction, hopelessness, and distress. Unfortunately, not everyone has seen, and that's our job, at least. To those who see, to try to open the eyes of the others, who will likely take our arms around our people and with us. We're all here to do this together, the 63th National Assembly of the Icelanders. We're supposed to do this together. We're supposed to match our terms as much as possible. It is not enough to say that OECD says that there is one of the greatest equalities in all countries. The nature of the case states that I and a person with a $250,000 bill are getting a good salary. In a month if we put it together and share it with two people, right? That doesn't mean always drawing the average wage out of the drawer. That does not mean for the person who receives 240,500,000,250,000. per month. How can a person rejoice in the average person? That's not possible. You can't go to the store when you don't have a nickel every 15 or 20 months and say, "I'm so high in the averages that I can't buy for dinner if I don't have a single cent, OECD says so, the Excel magazine says so. That's really positive about us. Many people have lost their jobs and have had other economic problems because of a pandemic crown. At first, we hoped that the economic impact of the epidemic would be temporary and that we would soon return to our former height, but we certainly did not. On February 28, the second person is two years after the first Icelander was diagnosed with Covid-19. But it turns out that we're going to break down all restrictions and get the virus blown over the community so that we can get the many-like herd resistance. As long as our health system works, it's actually the only right way to do this today. But I like knowing that you're trying to get as gently to the ground as you can. It's not like we're not trying to stand guard. However, we have a more economic advantage in all these dreary Covids than many and most other countries, and are well. But it is more painful than tears when we think of how we have overlooked that year, decade after decade, how a certain community group of poor people is viewed as self - righteous by existing governments at one time. It is only reasonable to see long rows of people outside a relief agency asking for food, and it is likely that small children are not allowed to enjoy the babies they were born with, the genius and the talent, because they were so unhappy to have poor parents. It's for us to change this. We're a small community. We cannot afford to use all the human resources we have. That is why we have been calling for help from the movers of the people, trying to help the poor, to reduce the number of microsurgents, and not to throw them to the rocks, as I have so often said, by allowing them to go to the labour market if possible without compromising their benefits for a certain period of time to see if we can help them back to their function and well - being in the community. It's hard to lose your legs. It is difficult to cope with a spiritual problem. Depression, negative moods, and feelings of discomfort, in fact, are too many people. These are the people we can pull out of the vest. These are the people we can help. There are a lot of physically healthy people to handle jobs, and this is a government that always says to encourage everyone to work. Probably the basis for everything called the global review of the social security system is the so - called work programme. It's horrible in my opinion because there's nothing that's behind it yet. There are no jobs for the people who believe that they can do 30% work but that they should only reduce their forwards at a insurance agency, which is of the opinion they are expected to be able to do. But we can, a respectable president, so easily help these people with self - help. We can so easily lighten up, so let's get along. We also need to realize that as soon as we get people to $350,000. The minimum tax and derelict yield is the state fund to get most of these crowns straight back into the system. It's the economy circuit. The economy is the circuit. We get more money, we spend more money. Suddenly, these individuals can pay. They are individuals who are unable to get paid, who cannot buy an apartment, even if it would be inexpensive for them to pay on loans rather than pay rent. These are those who are convicted of rent - rent property, with a rent ranging from 220,000 to 300,000 dollars. This is a month for a three-bedroom apartment. How to store a person with 240,500,000 a250,000. paid to pay rent at 220,000 dollars. and then have some left to survive? How can a person be expected to give his child any stirring task? And how can a seated government be able to ignore this? How can you do that, Mr. Honorable President? That shouldn't be possible. This is to us, one of the richest nations in the world, for such a fear that you are almost ashamed to have cried here, time after time, this is the fifth year, and point to the facts, pointing to reality. Here's the deal. Why don't we help our people? A respectable president. I hope that by the highest. The financial and economic minister will be able to get this case into the hands of the people to see how much money would return to the state funds, how many crowns are really lost by putting this initiative where it belongs. Nothing. " We have everything to work and nothing to lose, " says a group of people. This shows that the will is there, and we are here for everyone, not just some. I'll refer to this council proposal. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u24	A respectable president. We're discussing a proposal for interpretation of vital matters, 350,000 a.m. Minimum improvement in social security. One day I heard the strangest thing about it say that putting this group in $350,000 would really be impossible. It would be so expensive. But I can't agree more seriously because what is expensive in this society is that there are people who are kept in so much poverty, even very poor, that they don't have food, drugs, clothes, much less luxury appliances. If we look at this, too, from a recent survey published by the unions ASI and BSRB that a large part of low - paying people, employees who refuse dental services, medical services, and who cannot afford to respond to perhaps 80,000 points. unexpected expenses, how do we personally see that the people on the lowest pads that are well below the poverty line and that are of limited means should be able to support themselves on this? What may be the saddest part of all is that we forget the most important thing about this system: It's the children. How have we been able to justify having children in this situation for decades, that children need to line up with their parents in order to wait for food? It's a disgrace to us. Let's go back a little. In 1988, when public pay was adopted, the minimum wage, the pensions of public security, were not taxed, not taken in cash. What was even more remarkable is that there were 30% of the taxes left in order to settle into a pension fund or other income. What has happened since then? Yes, taxes have greatly increased. We've grown a lot of taxes and started paying taxes to poor people, not just poor people, but very poor people. Who does these things? Aren't we a civilized society? Aren't human rights and equality? Where are all these ideals if we can act like this, if we tell people who can't even afford to buy a meal: No, let's make a deal with you at 35,000,440,000 bucks. a month? Just taking it off gives me a lot of money. If we just put these numbers on, 350,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy, is that some kind of overpowering thing? Is that some kind of a bad number? She's not, just far away. If we were to take up both pay and social security status, and we would expect this from 1988 to apply to today, and have the same tax policy that we had, I am absolutely convinced that we were on this level. We should even, which would be even better, something left to the pension fund, because, as we know, those who are on disability and getting something from the pension fund are down by 38.9% and over, by 45.45 percent. This tax policy bites. She especially bites those who have the least pension fund, most of whom are women. In fact, it is tragic to know that over time it has been referred to as an average of which public security income has increased so much. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has repeatedly claimed that it is merely remarkable how much was put into it, yet the facts are true. Still, all 50% is missing is just to get your fat ass back. They're talking about reevaluating the social security system, but we can't go to that review until we deal with basic rights, i.e. Legally, the United Nations Convention on the Causes of Disappointment As soon as we have legalized the contract, that must be why the government is drawing him under arrest, they cannot violate the rights of disabled people. There must also be many warning bells when we hear the governments over and over again promise that the time has come for these people, now it has come. These people can't wait longer than this is a fake talk. They're still waiting. Where are directors, for example. in this discussion? They could show that they mean something by what they say about those people being unable to wait any longer. No one can see. They don't come up here and agree to $350,000. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy, is warranted. And if we just look back in time at the tremendous rise we members of Congress and Ministers got and put it in touch with the ignomination of the social security system, there's no overexcitation, not to mention, that we put it in $350,000. I'd say that's just the first step. This is the first step to ensure that at least Hopefully, no one will have to take on the humiliating task of standing in line after meals and nobody has to say no to dental service. Desperates refuse dental services. In fact, we see that working people refuse dental services. There must be something wrong with it when we can easily calculate the correct process. It is so easy to determine exactly what a person or a family needs to do. Why not? Because they don't want to see it. On one occasion, the Department of Social Affairs was about correct, but it soon disappeared because it was not popular to show the difference, there was sky and sea between those who lived on the stigmas of social security to what is truly needed. However, hopefully, although it is very unlikely, it will occur that governments will no longer be able to impose this inhumanal economic violence on which they use a group of people who have no chance but us here to defend themselves and fight for them. We are under obligation to make sure that no one lives in poverty, and we are under obligation to make sure that no one is left in need. As a result, we are also under obligation to agree with 350,000. tax and inadequacy. There is no overpowering, just the minimum for individuals and families not to stand in line for food.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u25	President. There are increasing numbers of people who cannot afford a decent home. That, on its own, does not mean that we have to live in a society like ours. No one, no matter how old he may be, has to suffer in want. But the fact that many of these homes have children makes the situation worse. Let us make this modest requirement that no one have less than 350,000. between the hands in relation to the established alimony criteria. On the website of the credit agent, e.g. can calculate the alimony criteria. It assumes that food, hygiene products, clothing, medical and pharmaceutical expenses, and transport, to name a total of 180,533k. per month. This number is marked by a childless person. For a single parent with a child, this number goes up to 260,693 k. With two children, the number is 358,824. It may have been noted by some Greek senators that this cost is missing, e.g. Power, heat, and insurance, as well as the day - care of children, which surely costs what's worse, are missing the housing team. The host is the largest budget force in all households, and it can be estimated to be at least 180,000. and those in a rented house. 180,000 bucks. is not a high rent price today, and it is not uncommon for rent prices to be high at 300,000 dollars. per month. In a speech I held here at the Council last week, I related a real example of rent that in a few months would have increased from 280,000 to 220,000 due to the index and effect of Covid-19. In other words, we can assume that the cost of housing is not less than 180,000, but it is clear that it is high and seriously burdensome for many individuals and families. In order to avoid exaggerating the problem, we aim at the lowest, 180,000 K., we immediately realize that this modest amount requires about 350,000. tax and inadequacy just doesn't work, not even for childless individuals, for it is a simple account that if food and clothing cost 180,000 and shelter 180,000, the conversation is 3 60,000, 10,000 bucks. a higher number than we're talking here. Do we really need to talk about this? The elderly and the poor receive alimony from the U.S. National Security Agency at 240,000 dollars. per month. For those not given more, 80,000 will be missing. Should end up getting together every month. These people really don't have a knife and spoon. I sometimes get the feeling that we, who live an abundance and who may never have experienced such a lack, feel that the problem is being exaggerated when we talk about the next meal and are not having food for the month. But it is not. It's really like this in Iceland today. What we have to be ashamed of is this. Is this a big group? How many people get paid off, I don't have numbers. If these are few, then it should be a small matter to correct their terms. But if there's a lot of them, it's perfectly clear that we have to correct their terms, because otherwise we'll have to redefined Iceland and bring it back to developing countries. Whatever the case, it is clear that even if something is added to this amount, Iceland suffers from too much shortage in 2022. It's the priority of the mobs that in Iceland, there's no shortage. Not even the equation is talking about an abundance. For every man hath a knife, and a spoon, that there is none to want. Senators on the striped senators have 1,285 points. K. every month. I'm asking, "Can we make it through 240,000 bucks?" a month? I'll allow me to doubt that any of us could. Then you might ask, " Could I survive 350,000 bucks? ' per month. It's better, but I think most of us would have trouble picturing that position. The point is, it is impossible to survive income that is less than 350,000. per month. $350,000. The level of tax and inadequacy is absolutely low and, in fact, in the short term, especially when considering the reductions in prices that have already occurred and that lie ahead of us. It is the General Assembly and the government to shame the council's decision will not be accepted. We live in one of the richest lands in the world. This is where money flows into the closed nests, which few have access to. There's plenty to go around. Everyone doesn't get to enjoy. If we think of our society as a family, we are a family who, for example, lets family members starve rather than give up for such things. new sofas, entertainment, or foreign trips None of us would really do that. Helping those in such a situation would always be first of all. That is what it is, and in reality it is amazing that this discussion needs to be conducted, let alone the need to be fought for this humble claim. Because there's plenty. I think it's about humanity, compassion and respect for individual worth. I trust the General will see to it that the worst in society is getting this minimal update on their income. That's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u26	V.E.G. President. Hv. The World of Congress and the people who listen to us and look at us live. I'd like to tell you that I've not yet met the man who claims it's easy to live on less than 300,000 bucks. per month. I have the opinion that this is a matter of cooperation; more things and smaller things take together and say, 'The buckstops are here.' That's it. That's it. I will testify in the song of Einar the son of Benediktsson, the good man, who said, You miserable people! The multitude of fountains of life is dried up and dried up. a little nation, which rendereth unto great sins; Build in Action ... willofthemarks, Everything you need is a will. It's just a question of it. If we want to solve this problem, the more part and the smaller part, we'll solve it. It's no big deal. For God's sake.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u27	Madam President. It is indeed shameful that in Iceland there is poverty. A recent study conducted by the National Guard, a research agency, found that more than one - third of families and individuals face financial problems and cannot live from month to month with the money they receive. These include older ones, elderly ones, and single parents. It's so simple to fix this if we want to. We're supposed to have a tax system that doesn't charge taxes from the lowest paid, but we're going to charge more taxes from the highest paid. They have not now been asked in the country, the rich, but they have been asked abroad: Do you want to pay more taxes? They say yes because every human, hopefully, has the evidence of justice in him to be ready to help those who are less fortunate. Or as Warren Buffett, the great investor, said: "It's shameful for me to pay less taxes than the woman who works as a secretary for me. We have to fix this, and it's been said that we have to start by fixing the tax limit. As suggested in this synonym, you see, fixing a tax limit or a personal discount is the fairest way to give more money to those who have the lowest wage and to take more from those who have more in the hands. But we will always find the same answer when we begin to talk about this: How should we reach out for the money we lose if we don't take money from the poor people? First, we listen to the rich and make them pay more taxes. They seem ready to do so. And, yes, part of that money, which we give to the poor people, comes back to the state because people who live on little from day to day will use that money to buy goods, and on goods there is a worthwhile tax. We get some of it back and in the form of other things the government gets back. Now we have a bargain, and we know they'll get tough. We also know that the labour market will come to the government and request a playout from here. Now why don't we just do it like what we're doing? paritaprevir Tómas Á. Tómasson suggested: "We work together to figure out how to eliminate poverty in Iceland? Let's just stop arguing about the fact that this is not possible. This is not possible - this endless magazine. Or like Greta Thunberg said in the climate: Blah, blah, blah. So let's stop and sit down and work together to figure out how to solve the poverty in Iceland once and for all. The will is exactly what it takes, and I know we have the will to sit down.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u28	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Húni Ólafsson's heartfelt affection for his fine speech and excellent support and his great heart. I didn't really mean to come up, but what? A senator talks about how to finance this and where the money is. Then I say, The People's Party has repeatedly ordered that we take a local payment on a pension fund. As long as we're happy and ready to do so, we'll pay local cash money into our pension fund instead of getting paid on the market now, when people are ill, when they're old and when they need to get their money without paying taxes. I'm wondering what. A senator is willing to consider this possibility that we have repeatedly fought for. Now we have our pension fund, but they sit like ringboard knights all over the whole system, all over the place. We are competing with ourselves on loans and anywhere else. These funds are worth seven thousand billion, much less than to seven thousand billion. This would be small money, but it would bring in a government fund beyond the limit of a hundred and seventy thousand billion dollars. every year. As we've done over and over again, these are small ones in the big context. We might even have a survey conducted among those who have the funds to see if they really didn't want to do it quickly. This would be the first step in going against all these taxes, the failings, and the filth that, in fact, too much of our countrymen are living today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u29	Madam President. Thank you. Senator for the first question. I have lived in quite a number of countries, and I have paid my pension in several countries, including In the United States, where both systems are running. You can choose to pay in taxes or after taxes, and I'll take it out with or without taxes. I believe that there are certainly benefits and disadvantages in both systems and would support having this option or viewing it. However, I think the most important thing about today's pension system is making it much more beneficial than it is. You see, it was this way in the U.S.A., some 15◯20 years ago that they were given a law that each of their pensions needed to demonstrate clearly what they were paying the pensioners to put money into the pension fund. This can't be found if I go into the pension fund I have in Iceland. I can see that precisely in the funds I am in abroad; when I put in the money then the pension fund takes this many percent in fee, every year they take this great fee, when I take out the money they take out so much fee. This is nowhere to see from the Icelandic pension fund. For those of us who have learned about mathematics and growth, it's important that every percent of them be taken into terms. We may know that this 7,000 billion goes only to run the fund or to compensate for the wages of those governing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Clearly, we are on a page similar to the one with knowledge of a different system that would be delighted to cross and examine. You're right next door. A senator that there is truly a bit of mystery in this system and far from when we can say that the pension system is transparent and on top of the table. We have also ordered that the funds are the owners of the funds that have more control and more control than employers and those who are not really supposed to get close to our pensions. But the overhaul and the cost we received, and about three years ago, there was 20 billion dollars. And then it was a complete secret what these experts, who are supposed to be, those who run the investments of the pension fund, were paying some experts out in the world to raise our money. With chills, I recall the 600 billion times. which we lost on one board in the last economic collapse, e.g. So, considering being able to gain access to a government fund in the range of 30,470 billion dollars. More than a year, it would not see the impact of water on our pension property and would benefit those who would like to receive whatever they have when they need in the late stages of their lifetime. It would be better for them to know that at least mine knows But taking 36% of what they should get paid from a pension fund. We can do all of this, we can finance anything, and like a whale. A senator rightly mentioned the only thing that needs cooperation and will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u31	A respectable president. Yes, it's all there is to want. The only thing about offering new routes about taxes or no taxes or when pension pay is tax pay is that it takes a lot of years before the average citizen starts to benefit from it. Like you say, a government fund gets more money every year, but it takes a little longer for those who put in the money until it starts to pay off to them properly. But I certainly agree that there should be choices in this matter. I can say that to what. A senator that I will fight to destroy all poverty in this country, there I will always stand with you and anyone else who will destroy it. The way we do this requires that we talk to each other. You see, there is one thing we need. Congressmen need to learn to do more, and talking is done, not just talking to each other or to each other, but talking to each other. In this way we can make good things happen, and we can eliminate poverty. We can do what is necessary for the environment. We can meet these big challenges just by talking to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u32	Madam President. When I think of poverty in Iceland, I can't think of all the consequences of poverty and all the expense it brings to society. What are the consequences of being a child growing up in poverty? There are various consequences, and there are few good results. What really comes to my mind when I think of this is that poverty is more often done, not that there is much stress in homes, and stress in homes is often the basis for domestic violence, domestic violence, child abuse, and as a result of a stressful situation in the home and more often but not as a financial concern. While there may be reasons for domestic violence, if you are poor, you are more likely to be exposed to violence and also to adults because there is only a direct connection between coping with stress and poverty or poverty and experiencing stress. But what other risk factors are involved, e.g. for children and for adults as well? It is a mental disorder, another type of illness, a physical illness. There are a lot of risk factors, and I may not be going to list everyone here, but what I want the government to think about is that we need to be prospective in these matters. We need to think: If I act now, it costs money and we need to figure out how to bring this money to the table. In contrast, we improve people's interests, so that they will, for example, improve them. seek less medical, hospital, or female care or anywhere else because poverty is a common factor for all kinds of risk factors. The fact that children in Iceland are growing up in poverty is just unbelievable. And it does not have to be that way if we are a little forward and think about how we want the community. Do we want children to have the right to grow up as healthy individuals? Then we make sure that children are not at poverty, and of course not adults. I think it's too soon to think about next month's convention, next year. We need to think about our next decades and how we want to live in a community. We need to think, too, that if you experience violence at home, you are more likely and at greater risk of violence at some point, and stress is common to all of these factors. I'm concerned that there are many families who experience all too much stress, whether because of poverty or other things. But if we are able to do something about the poverty issue, we should not hesitate to do so. I'm just glad that these matters are being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u33	A respectable president. I'm just coming up to say thank you. A senator for her good approach to this vital matter for so extraordinary many. It is getting close in the way we have been repeatedly pointing out the consequences of poverty on the children and on the families and on these friendships that it points to in connection with the increase in domestic violence and so forth. All research has shown that there is no difference between fighting in poverty and not making ends meet, not knowing if you can pay off your house, whether you can provide food, clothing, and shelter for your family, which is more than tears. No parent should ever have to be able to give your child, whom you love most of all in the world, what generally seems normal in our rich society. I repeat it. Thank you. A senator for her well - being, and I'm just saying that the more we are and the higher we have, the more likely we are to be listened to and that we will be able to get this special issue through and help the people we want to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u34	Madam President. Yes, this is a very important matter and should be important to all who have the best interests of Iceland, and it's devastating that there's poverty in Iceland. We should do what we can to ensure security within and outside the home and make sure that there is no more stress to be experienced by Icelandic families than they need. We know that we are living in a fast society where things should be done most yesterday and our children are not excluded from that requirement. Living in poverty becomes even more stressful, and this can be dangerous, since it is difficult to find the right strength when it is very stressful in the fast society we have created here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u35	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym smell of electrical ring-linking on the West. My associates in this matter are Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, a member of the Central Party, and Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, a member of the Independence Party. We suggest that the General deems the government to secure the Western Union's security as much as the rest of the country by inducing a round connection between electricity on the West. During the West, the delivery safety of electricity has been lower than in other parts of the country. Intensification is dependent on the import of energy from the country's main transport system, from there they receive more than 40% of the electricity used in the national part of the country. No part of the country should be in need of such conditions, but although many practical activations on the West have not been satisfied with their use. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure the delivery of electrical energy on the Vestjörður via a cyclical fixation. To date, the calculation of the Landsnet has been carried out that WRD can execute the system on the West if it is isolated from the main transport system without interference from the release of electricity. There is much uncertainty about the activation of Whale Hall, therefore, a more potent ring connection is needed, whether or not the activation of Whale will occur. In a circle, it means that energy can come from two directions, not one. If there's a malfunction in the second line, electricity will continue with the other one. Now it comes all the distant electricity to the West Coast by a single line, called the West Line. It is over 161 miles [161 km] in length, between Shoutung and Snowyear activation, and covers a region that is both difficult to weather and geographically. According to the Western Institute, the main problem in electrical energy supply security is the Western European Union, which is dependent on the import of energy from its main transport system. Intensification of electricity problems is expensive, and both the growth and the management of jobs for cleaning are maintained. A company on the West regularly copes with tensions and discounts. Tension flutter causes significant damage to sensitive computer machines and most computer equipment. This costs a substantial amount of money in the area each year, but when electricity out, business damages. Delay can be expected each time and while most workers are out of work. In time, engines and designers must be restarted, and programmers need to process things that were not saved. This means loss of work at regular intervals. Cooling, freezing machines, and other machinery are also sensitive to fluttering on electricity. Because of the early failures and maintenance of electrical transport systems in Western Europe, diesel combustion in spare power stations and oil tanks can easily make 500 tons of oil a year. and, of course, we have seen in the news over the past few days and weeks an imminent plan for significantly more burning oil for house warming and electricity production in the West than is expected in the report on this council resolution. A critical failure of the transport system of the West, which lasts for days, may then multiply this number, and we are facing this fact because of lack of electricity. In the coming years, it has been confirmed that there is an increased demand for energy in Western Europe due to a wide range of activities, such as parachiptic development, fish farms and tourism, and as a result of increasing population growth in job activities. Such structure depends on supply safety and access to increased energy. Electric law requires that the Landsnet be clearly paid on market terms for the costs of the transport system. The estimated cost of building a competitive transport system on the West is worth a hundred billion dollars. A job policy based on slow increase and diversity could pay for construction over a long period of time, but governments need to give the Landsnet a responsibility to meet the budget for the building. A significant increase in electricity production within the West may be the solution that cuts this knot, but uncertainty remains to determine whether the activation initiatives of the Westerners will be used. Therefore, governments must intervene in order to match their status and that of other citizens. Therefore, the movers believe that it is necessary for the Council to conclude that the government would hide the security of electricity from the rest of the country by developing a cluster of electricity on the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u36	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with the swathing of the carriers found in the report on this synonym. In the West, there is indeed a lazy delivery security force in the country, and Westerns depend on the import of electricity, for they produce only 60% of the electricity needed by a quarter. It is also true and fact that the construction of employment on the West will further require more energy, not to mention the future energy exchange. The country's water supply is now so high that land induction is not able to deliver energy as necessary to companies and energy companies in the country. Thus, in the West, an energy farm of the West needs to be cremated with some 4 million gallons [4 million L] of raw oil for house warming during the next three months. This is after Land activation announced that it did not deliver electricity to buyers of impaired energy from energy shortages. Do we want to be there? No. A ringlink is one option that could be used to fix this. But is that enough, and is that the only way? A report by the Landsnet on transport systems in Western Europe from 2019 shows that in addition to the use of ring-linking factors, there is an stimulus to transport. in the quarter increase in electricity production. It is considered mainly in 2019, when the report was published, still in sight, and it is in the new category of the 3rd Plan of the Framework Programme and the executive had requested its connection to the transport system. Now in the year 2022, that vision has dimmed, and there is considerable uncertainty about its activation. What, then, is in the maps? There are some priming options at the level of the West, including Scrap lakes and eastern canyons. Then we begin to talk about activation in Waterfowl. A recent report by Landsnet on the authenticity of the West Fjords, published in December, describes the activation of the Water source, which would be about 20 MW, and would be associated with a short-line, or stringed yolk activation, would increase the delivery security in the West Fjords more than a double Western line that would be about 100 miles [160 km] from Hurtuungungu to Milk River. It says in this report, with the permission of the president: With this connection, milk has become a very strong point, here it is assumed that the inert activation is low and similar to other hydropower workers. As you can see, at each drop of delivery sites at the Westland, where they are all dependent on the delivery safety in the Milk River. It is also said that the delivery safety of electrical energy on Isafandi would increase by 90% with this activation if it could be connected to the Milk River. Upon swirling, electrical energy supply security at Isafandi would increase by 70%. I mean, I'm not talking down a circle, but I'm just mentioning these ways that are good. But I'm so desperate that I think it takes more wisely that it takes a shorter time, and is sure of it, and inexpensively to put this activation into the water supply on, and I think it's urgent. But there is something else to consider. I've written down a synonym at this council that I'm moving for the third time on minors. They are a very important part of this structure, and it has proved that they are very important in the West to trust and improve the safety of the public. You need to simplify your routine and shorten the time it takes to implement it where it is appropriate. In order to improve the use of microinvestments, the legislation and regulations relevant to their implementation need to be reviewed with the aim of simplifying the application procedure associated with them. As noted, microengineering will be linked to the electrical energy system on the land's distribution plants, thus strengthening the transport pathways. Small inactivations are being used, strengthened, and improved by the electrical system that has already been built up by society. The small activations of the West have increased, and they have proved themselves to be an important factor in the local electrical security. A respectable president. I come up here to agree with what this council arrangement says, that electricity output security on the West is unacceptable, and we have to make it right. It was observed in the case of a power manager at Ásafjörður on the radio the other day, named Elías Jónatansson, that the cost of energy must be made by driving these machines used to warm up oil houses, telecommunications for the warming of the Westfjords, will be about 400 million. K. This will raise the company's income and profits perhaps for the next two years, and while they do not take on the maintenance they have been working on in recent years, it will help prevent them. I'll say that power needs to be improved on the West, but there's more to this than the ring-link, and we've got to look at the best option and it's right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u37	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's talk. She was amazing. It's a pleasure to have a pleasant evening. A senator agrees with the main guidelines outlined in the synopsis as outlined here. There are two things I want to ask you. A senator about. First of all: During the past terms, there were plans - and first, I want to say that I agree, and I support plans for the activation of the water supply, I think it's sensible and that many things will be of great benefit to the region. But there was an environmental minister's plan for the establishment of a partial peace-porting territory. Is the attitude of the Agency to that activation so that the group now in a stronger position than the last term in the government will have the strength to push this issue forward? The reason why I ask is why. A senator rightly pointed out that much was needed to be simplified in order to carry out the assignment. For the past four years, the forward squad has been in the government and is now going on. Is there anything that the pack did during the last term that was designed to give us an optimistic view that it is now possible for us to succeed in this terms so badly during the initial period that we did not even succeed in implementing the third stage of the framework?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. The advance team has plenty of energy to go on the project. I'd like to point out that during the last term, speaking of the microindustries, the then industrial minister began to simplify some rule around them, although I was not feeling enough to do it in any way. But I think that the forward party's will is all there to improve and improve the power security of the West as well as anywhere else that we really need to go. In case of a moment. A senator reads over the government covenant is naturally a great deal of emphasis on energy. We're going into energy exchange, and that's what we need to improve the power systems around the country. So the government's will for these matters is in place and the activation of the Waterfowl is in the region, i.e. since this activation is possible, it is certainly in a peaceful country. That reservation is naturally bound to a law on how to proceed. But I think that it can be accomplished so that you can reach that conclusion - that is an activation of 20 MW - that it could be arranged to perform there without going to the reservation so that we cannot agree to reach that conclusion. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u39	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Maybe I'll add a question from the continuum transfunctioner plans in the Waterfowl. In the government community that the Agency is now, the question is: A senator that has the right to accept activation in Waterfair, in cooperation with the left movement of a green supply of one of three administrations, and to give the Ministry of Presidency? I say this in view of the fact that when you look at the Government Constitution, the framework plan is called, the new plan, scheduled for making contributions on the last day of the spring election, which you feel you do not feel that a great follow-up is in the process of moving the continuum transfunctioner plans forward. I know how to do it. A senator might explain that the program that has been raised three times is not scheduled for contributions until the last day of this assembly's donation? I don't feel that a lot of meaning is behind finishing. The other question, then, is what? A senator believes that in the government community with left greens, he will be able to activate water supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u40	A respectable president. I don't have a satisfying explanation for why a frame plan is submitted to our last award day. But I think it's very important that the framework program that will be submitted to the council -- this is a very important document of the reconciliation that the law on the structure shows. Hv. A senator has also asked if we trust in the government of the left green to park, for example. ... inEnvironmentof Waterfair. I think this government has shown that it's progressive in climates and I know that the left greens are the same. If we put these benefits together on the table, we have to burn more million gallons of house warmer to the Westland spacing of 20 MW activation in Waterfair, I think the answer is just, "Let's go to it now, hopefully. "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u41	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, No. 19/110, about the community services of young offenders. The movers, in addition to me, are Steindór Jón Kristínardóttir's daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Valdimarsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, Kristrún Frostadóttir, and Þórunn, Sven Sveinbjarnardóttir. The changes intended according to this bill are as follows: In 1st. By 57th. a new article from the law, 57th par. b, as follows: When a party is a youth aged 151⁄221 years, it is permitted to decide in court to set a specific social service requirement for culminating full punishment. 57st. The number of times and the amount of time for community service should be set aside. The time number of community services should be at least 40 hours and a maximum of 480 hours. The premise for such community services is that a person is considered to be qualified for community service based on observation of his personal condition and that a person does not release prison punishment or receive custody. Social services are subject to the following conditions: 1st That someone will not be charged with criminal action at the time of community service. 2. The party is the oversight and supervision of the prison facility or other members it decides in the event of community service. Plus condition 3 mg. it can be decided that community service will be subject to the following conditions: 1st Participating to an overseer's instructions for residence, study, work, association with other humans, and practicing leisure activities. 2. The party does not consume alcohol or narcotics. It is permitted to require someone to undergo a respiratory or haematologic and urinalysis test to check if it has broken the 2nd argument. 4 mg. The recruitment of parties to such a study is valid as a violation of community services criteria. 59 is the case with violation of community services. gr., but if it is broken or not broken, a reminder can be given. Change level 2. ... are: Following the words "Kenchov. " One, two, three, four, six, six, six, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, a number. 3 mg Fifty-seventh floors and five hundred and sixty-five. Fifty-niner. The law comes either three or four. In the 3rd. states: This law already comes into effect. Madam President. Only about the bill. A similar bill has been submitted five times, last in 149, but not successful. It is now reassigned with additional arguments to the report. The objective of the bill is that young offenders can be given more help and thus possibly prevent them from being led on by further crime. In this eye it is suggested that judges be allowed to decide in court to set additional conditions for probationary postponement of the full punishment according to the court's terms. 57st. general penalties in the form of community service for young people aged 153/421 years. In this way, community service could be used for this age class when a judge determines that a noncommunicative judgment would not be sufficient to lead the individual into law - abiding ways. The current arrangements are not to be made to allow judges to repeat the number of youths in probational prisons and to hesitate to judge them irreprehensiblely, and when punishment comes, a long probation period arises. In Iceland, judges have merely the resources, in many cases, to judge people in prisons, probation or incorrigibly. A man sentenced to up to 12 months incorrigibly may apply for the time of serving in a prison facility rather than in a community service. Thus, whether a person sentenced to prison does so in community service or not, it is under the authority of the administration. This has some negative consequences. First, there is a question as to whether this corresponds to the Constitution of the State's trigraphy, that government changes the newly established judgments of the Court. Second, it has been held in the literature of scholars that whether the current arrangement meets the demands of the Constitution for the clarity of penalties and that the security of the public was better guaranteed by the court's granting of punishments is uncertain. Third, and it doesn't matter the least, it's very omnipotent. The decisions are not published, as judges do, and therefore it cannot be defined as being equal to others in a similar situation. Because of this transparency, defenders cannot properly inform their clients, in the handling of a case, on what they can expect, or build up their compromises, with this option in mind. In fact, the evidence is that the three - fold analysis of power and transparency applies to all who receive judgment, not to youths. Nevertheless, it is suggested that a judge be first allowed to set this requirement for the deferral of juvenile punishment, but it is reasonable that the General will also consider whether this should be a general option. Social services include temporary non-employed work in the community, such as social kindness or social activity, which is performed outside of hours of work so that he can practice his job or study while being an active member of society. This strategy is rarely new when it comes to minor offenders because of the policy that has been set aside for community service to be the full amount of resources to be considered only in the case of indistinguishable judgments according to the law on the ultimate punishment, No. 15/2016. However, illegal judgments are generally not pronounced above the youngest offenders, end of a disaster, and are applied only to cases where public interest is considered undefeated and due security to administering a probationary judgment. Clearly, community service can be more suitable than an inaccessible prison sentence for young criminals, as well as a possible significant upbringing. Social services resources can have a warning effect on youths as well as on opportunities to reach those who have been led into crime. Thus, there is an opportunity to monitor the young and perform an attempt to have a positive effect on the individual. This will not be the case with a judgment not bound to this requirement. It is important to ensure that such an option exists before the national courts in matters involving young offenders. This would be in harmony with the development of countries where increasing emphasis has been placed on resources to encourage young ones to maintain good behavior, to shoulder responsibility for their actions, and to bring back to law - abiding wrongdoers with many supports and follow - ups. Social Services Was First legalized by Social Services, No. 55/1994. It was a period of experimentation, and it was decided that community service would be determined by governments as the ultimate resort. Commenting on the bill, it was concluded that if a community service were to become permanent later, it would be considered to include laws on it in general penalties and to say that in many parts of the country, the court route would be gone. Community service is still a full-scale penalties in this country, and it is a decision-making and monitoring of the custody of a prison agency under the law on the full penalty, No. 15/2016. By bill this, it is not intended to alter this general arrangement but to add this option to the possibility of a judge in the case of young offenders who need more guidance and maintenance than standard probationary punishment. However, this determined approach does not mean that social services will be the basis for independent repairs, as was the case with many of our neighboring countries. Such discussions must wait a while, but for more information on the subject of opinion, it refers to a 647 case presented in the 133th legislature but did not succeed. As is expected, a prison facility will carry out and accomplish such full - time community service as in general. Does this mean that a prison facility is responsible for finding work as a suitable young wrongdoer? In general, there is an euthanasia and social activity in union organizations and public institutions. The check-up is that a representative from the prison facility always goes to the workplace and regularly monitors the progress of the situation, as well as calling the person to interview after the events. Since the objective of the bill is to provide additional support, it is important that the monitoring is progressive and appropriate measures are taken as soon as the young wrongdoer will not be worth the conditions of judgment and will not perform community service. A reminder can be given on minor violations of conditions, but the occurrence of such cases according to Article 59 or 60 pars. General penalties, No. 19/1940. Would it be in the hands of a judge to determine whether community service is a fact of experience, after which events make appropriate changes regarding full punishment? For a more detailed explanation, Madam President, of the individual articles of the bill in which the procedure is explained, I refer to the document facing here and also on the Internet under the General Assembly. But after this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u42	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this bill and the talk and many good things that are presented there, and the report is interesting. I personally have been interested in community service as a testimonial, and I would like to discuss it in this talk. Trends over the past few years have included the increased use of extramarital resources instead of unmistakably prison sentences and one of these provisions is community service, to which this bill is carried out, and it is well carried out in my judgment. The Web site of a prison agency discusses community service and answers to questions about it, and there are conditions that need to be met and what will happen if community services are violated. It is interesting to look at this on the Internet. Society services include temporary non-paying jobs, which can replace imprisonment, both due to incorrigibly penalties and subsidies of capital fines. The decision for community service and its implementation is in the hands of a prison agency. Over the years, individuals serving their sentence in community service have increased. There are several others who serve in community service but who are kept in prisons. A person who is applying and allowed to serve in a community service may engage in a full - time job or study, but he uses his spare time to work on good subjects without pay. It is important to think of how it is most likely that humans will be able to succeed when they return to society. This is of utmost importance when it comes to imprisonment and what awaits individuals who have served their sentence. Experience has shown that we do so by shutting humans away for as short as possible. The prison authorities have been quoted as saying that community service was a success. Of course, there is something we should look to. Only about 16% of those who serve their sentences in that way break free. There have also been increased opportunities to serve part - time in open prisons, but this has also resulted in greater success in breaking down some less. Sadly, many prisoners have a drug problem, and we need to improve in offering additional treatments for them. It is important that we have the best knowledge of the success of prison systems in preventing further crime. Prisons vary and are unique in their policies and actions. Iceland and Norway are believed to have a minor penal policy that highlights the rehabilitation of prisoners but in the United States, for example. has become harder, and doesn't make prisoners re-created. Prison authorities need to have a good knowledge of which kind of punishment will bring best results. Iceland and Norway's prison systems are much better equipped than the American to ensure successful return to society. Then community service produces no less correction than prison punishment and is even a better way to rehabilitate wrongdoers. The so - called trajectory rate describes the success of a prison system in preventing further criminal activity and is one way to assess the results of different criminal systems and to give evidence of the quality of a certain criminal system. It was the highest for economic crime, theft, and robbery, while the lowest for those who were judged for crime and sexual abuse was the case. In contrast, the rate of crime was high for all species in the United States. At that time, a prior history proved to be a special risk factor for the perjury of crime, which sheds light on the benefits of community service as an arrangement for an individual's offense. This interesting information is presented in a recent BA essay at the University of Iceland, by Ólafía Lauf Laufey Steingrímsdóttir Monsterdóttir, and I encourage members of Congress to study that essay. It is an interesting overview of theoretical research on the success of prison systems in preventing further crime. This is especially because of my community service here. If I go into it a little bit further, it says, with President's permission: In recent years, social services have been used more as means of imprisonment. It is also generally considered more practical than putting people in prison, so it is important to see how it affects the reading rate. Most studies suggest that community services do not significantly reduce the central rate compared to incarceration. Thus, research has shown either no difference between prison and community service [...] or that community service has a lower objective rate but the difference is not significant [...]. Then was the study Spaans [...] that there is a tendency for individuals serving in community service not to commit as serious a offense as those sent to prison that can certainly affect the low rate in this group. In a 1998 study, it was found that there is a tendency for individuals serving in community service not to commit as serious a violations as those sent to prison, which can certainly affect the low focal rate of this group. In 2001, a study of the progress rate of crime in Iceland showed an important conclusion in this regard. The study may have been conducted during the period when community service was starting here and examined the central record rate of crime by those who completed community service in 1995-1998. The results were that of the incidence of rejection, i.e. that the subject returns to criminal activity, was generally the highest among those who completed sentence in prison, and the lowest among those who completed social service as part of the new police dealings or who were sentenced to a new sentence within three years. Those who completed community service were followed for three years after complete completion and were 17% again imprisoned, 22% were again judged, and 55% had just been replaced by police. A study was then conducted in 2010 that showed similar findings. Of those starting community service in Iceland in 2005, 16% had been rejudged within two years. For Norway, there was a focal rate of those who began community service in 2005 23%. In fact, the rates of those starting community service in Norway were smallly higher than those in prisons. The main reason is that those sentenced to community service in Norway often have more sentences on their back than those sentenced to community service in other lands. The results of community service are not numerous in the United States, but in a 1986 U.S. study, the effects of community service were examined and compared to those who received a short prison sentence. A total of 494 wrongdoers in community service were compared with 417 offenders who received prison sentences. Six months after the completion of the sentence, a return rate was examined. The results found that six months after the rollback, the return rate of those who cut off community service was 43%, while the number of victims in prisons was 41%. The difference was not statistically significant, but it was noted that methodological limitations and possibly statistical errors were included in this study. In 2007, U.S. scholars tried to add this to a study that compared the results of community service with conventional capital fines for men who had committed minor crimes in North Dakota in the United States and which included the study period of 422 subjects and the study period of one year. The results showed that the signal rate of those who had been sentenced to community service was 34% compared to 36% of those who had to pay money. The results also showed that those participating in community service were less likely to break free than those who had to pay money fines when controlled for certain variables, e.g. gender, race, previous arrests, and weight punishment. The results thus support the use of community services rather than other community resources for minor fractures. These findings are of particular interest when it comes to portraying community service as criminals who have more serious offenses than those who had to pay fines. In Norway, rather mild - tempered, the punishment of prisoners and prisons is a limit to freedom without their other rights to be restricted. The environment and life in prisons resemble traditional society, and conditions are not more severe than they are necessary. Then Norway's reform policy has yielded one of the world's lowest negative rates of crime, which is truly interesting. This is seen in a study conducted in 2010, where the critical rate of crime of individuals released from prison in 2005 was 20% within two years. The U.S. Department of Sentence is known to be more severe than in Norway, and the attitudes in the criminal system of justice are fraught with lower rates of crime. Because of this, plans for rehabilitation are not in priority in prisons, for which there is a great lack of resources and formal action to prepare for a life without crime. This policy does not seem to provide the best results to show that in the United States it is particularly difficult to maintain a sentence tolerance from prisons. In Iceland, prison punishments are only used if necessary and have certain goals. This view is reflected in the prison system in that prisons are small and few. Prisons have been organized according to unscrupulous methods that should promote the rehabilitation of prisoners and ensure a successful restoration of the community, which, of course, is of great importance. However, because of lack of money, legal prison projects have not been sufficiently cared for. It's even the assessment of Helgi Gunnlaugsson, professor of crime at the University of Iceland's Social Sciences. In recent years, the quality of a prisoner service has increased. In view of this, Iceland has been successful in controlling prisoners and keeping them away from prisons. Thus, as stated earlier, a 2001 study showed that the rapid rate of penal tolerance released from prison in 1994-1998 was 29% within 3 years of release. Is this consistent with study results from 2010 where the key rates of subjects released from prison in Iceland in 2005 were 24% within two years? In general, in view of these findings, it is possible to conclude that national penalisticism has undeniably impacted the success of the countries in reinitiating offenders and hence on the possibility of a rejuvening court - tolerance violation. A more minor penalistic policy focusing on a better prisoner, e.g. In the form of education and schooling, they may gain some skills that they can use in their lives after a loan. In this way prisoners are sent to a community that helps even better qualified individuals to cope with life than they were before going to prison in the first place. A severe punitive policy like that of the United States is not humanizing in any way, but it does not work to throw people into prison and expect them to learn without some sort of resources from their mistakes and come as better men into society. Since one of the objectives of a global prison is to restore prisoners, it is important that they be assured of proper resources and help to reevaluate society and life without crime. For example, when a physical rate of diplomacy as a result of community service is considered, such penalties seem to be less effective than prison punishment. Thus, in the 2001 study 17% had been sentenced to death in Iceland, which was remanded by community services within three years. Madam President. I've only been able to access things about community service that I find interesting to show up here. There are many other things that I could discuss, but the time will have to wait for better time. As I'm saying, from the results I was doing here, we can see about the trajectory rate of court endurance that completed a sentence in prison that community service is not less effective in terms of recovery. I think that's why it's important that we look into these matters, because all of us must aim for the same goal that those who have served their sentence come back as better individuals into society, and I really think we should examine community service in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for a detailed talk with very helpful information, which, of course, I did not get everyone out of the seat, but I will study the talk when it appeared on the General Assembly. I wanted to ask, because it doesn't exactly pass by. A senator, despite having a positive view of the options, whether he agrees with me on the steps involved in this matter, that the present system is very adverse; that decisions are not presented as judgment and tolerance, cannot tell whether they have had equal words with others in a similar position because it is the government that makes this decision. Therefore, defenders cannot properly inform their clients about what is to be expected in the treatment of a case or build the case with this option in mind. A routine prison sentence for very young violations must be a total resort, and therefore it can be repeated by the present system that judges repeatedly judge people on probation. In the end, it can have serious consequences. Does he not agree with me that this should be like in the North countries, Norway, that judges have the authority to do this instead of the fact that it is in the hands of a prison facility?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm very into it because we're looking at the implementation of these cases in Norway. I think it just showed up, as I mentioned in my speech, that, for example, as far as community service is concerned, it has proved to be effective. Yes, I definitely believe we should look to Norwegian in this regard and agree with it. A senator when it comes to transparency. There's got to be a transponder in this suit. In his speech, a senator traced it quite well. That the judges can get this warrant, I think, is of the good. I feel that way, and I've been particularly interested in this strategy, i.e. Social service, it had to do with my study at a university. The objective must always be the same for all of us, i.e. ... toimprovethesubjectsto come from reformation, if I may say so, into the community as better individuals. That must be all of us. This arrangement has shown that it produces better results than traditional imprisonments or unidentified judgments. Then I think it is certainly important to consider carefully whether these things can be improved in our case. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned them, but I think it is a very good thing to look to Norway, for it has been shown that this project has yielded good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u45	A respectable president. I recommend my bill to legalise the law on foreign employment rights. Your bill's moving men besides me are why. The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Rafn Þorbjörg, Guðmundur In Gunnlaugsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jakob Frän Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Sigmar Guðmundsson Gunuga's Sigríður, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övjörnótir. The bill suggests that foreigners who have received leaves in Iceland on the basis of humanitarian grounds or because of special contact with the country under the laws for foreigners will be excluded from the temporary employment permits in this country, which means they would have untimely permission to work in this country. According to Icelandic law, foreigners other than the citizens of the EEA and EFTA countries who intend to stay in Iceland for more than three months need to be granted a special residence permit at the Foreign Institute. The citizens of the EEA and EFTA countries do not need a special license to stay in this country, but they need to register with the National Book of Iceland if they intend to stay here for more than three months. There are certain conditions for the granting of a resuscitation that depend on what kind of deposit is applied. There are some basic conditions for most living permits and other conditions that apply to the individual habitats. To explain only this matter, I will briefly review the content of the resident who is being spoken of here. All visas are temporary at first, but some visas lead to the right to an untimely storage permit after a certain period of residence in this country and the specific conditions being met. The purpose of the applicant's stay here on the country is to provide the type of resort that the person can obtain. There are housing permits for family unity, and a family is defined in a very narrow manner. Only certain housing permits leads to family unity, when it is the partner of Iceland or a foreigner who has a permit in this country, children under 18 years of age, and parents of 67 years of age and older. Children over 18 are thus not your family, nor are your parents when they are older. Then there are some living permits for employment purposes. There are especially two species, i.e. due to the lack of labour, which depends primarily on the labour market position in Iceland and the employer who is prepared to go through that process with him, and the other is a living permit for employment participation on the basis of a job that requires expertise. This visa requires both working and applying for housing prior to arriving in the country, i.e. In general, there are exceptions. For these, there are strict conditions that can be difficult to meet, especially for people who do not have many years of university education or other specialations. There are also provisional visas for study, enforcing, for volunteers, missionaries, for working conditions for young people and for others. This is a visa that usually does not provide the right to premature residences. And it's one of the residents we're talking about in this bill, and it's a patent based on a special connection to the country. Residential authorization on the basis of the humanitarian principle, which is the second visa covered by the bill, is considered only by the material management of an application for international protection that has been, in fact, denied. When an individual arrives in Iceland and applying for international protection, for asylum, there is actually a basis for three types of residence permits. First, a fugitive's position is that of some individuals who are fleeing from personal persecution for certain reasons in their own countries. Then there is a visa called secondary protection today, which is a European concept and was actually invented to cover over people who are fleeing the general crisis of their own countries, such as war or some form of climate disaster, although that is not yet clear. You see, it is so funny that people who are fleeing from war and just fleeing from war, nothing personal, do not qualify as refugees, according to the definition of the United Nations refugee Convention. But in Europe it is right for a so - called secondary protection. This is one of the residents you are looking at when applying for international protection. A third housing permit to be considered when applying for international protection is a so-called housing permit based on a humanitarian view. I generally hear it in the people's language that they assume that a patent on the grounds of humanity is a little fancy, that sounds big and big. But the situation is that a patent on the grounds of humanitarianism applies only for one year at a time. This may be extended for up to two years because of its initial interest, it is not changed, nor is it possible to have a permit on the basis of a specific relationship with the country, therefore there is no license to go to the labour market. But what human motive is this? They're not talking about refugees. That's a 74.4. The law of foreigners and of the law says, by permission of the president: Despite conditions of the 37th chapter, it is advisable to allow a foreigner who is present on this land to permit a permit on the grounds of humanitarianism. if not met, to which is the law for refugees - even if he could show a real need for protection, e.g. for health reasons, or because of difficult social circumstances or difficult general circumstances in either your country or in a country that would be referred to. In an explanation of the provision of the bill for a foreign law, we say, by permission of a president: ▪ With a greater need for protection for health reasons, it is available in accordance with other countries in relation to factors such as the occurrence of sudden and life-threatening disease and treatment of these diseases in this country, but not in the country of their own country. Treatment is not considered inaccessible, although required, but refers to cases where treatment is available but is inappropriate for those in your country. In addition, there may be very serious diseases that are not considered to be life - threatening, such as if it is found that they will cause serious irreparable health problems or intolerable suffering. And it continues to be only for health reasons. I'm not going to argue about it. For difficult social situations, it is meant, by permission of presidents: ▪... that a foreigner needs protection because of social conditions in his country, including the circumstances of women who have been sexually abused, which may lead to their difficult situation in a foreign country, or the circumstances of women who are not engaged in sexual function that is traditional in their home state and who are at risk of excommunication or violence at their return. The need for protection in other areas would depend on the circumstances involved. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ With difficult general circumstances, we also refer to serious situations in the home state, often involving a permanent violation of human rights in the state or a situation where authorities do not protect their citizens from violence or crime. I'm going to stop reading there, but more detailed reports are in the paper on the bill to correct foreigners. The individuals in my position here describe, as it were, have an opportunity for temporary residence permits, for one year at a time, and this is not accompanied by permission to do business here. I'm going to do a little more details on the terms of a special relationship, so we're allowed to give a living permit if an individual has a special relationship with Iceland. It is given only in exceptional circumstances, as shown on the Homepage of the Foreign Institute, and is individually assessed. The evaluation is primarily a family connection and stay in Iceland that provides the basis for this provision, but the stay has certainly been legitimate. The interpretation of family ties is certainly not extensive, and it really does apply to real relationships. I don't think blood ties are good enough. A connection must be demonstrated. The same applies to this patent and visa on the grounds of humanitarianism. This is true for as long as one year, and it is permitted to be renewed for up to one year, the basis for granting the license is not changed. However, this provision has not only a right to family unity but also a basis for a permanent residence in due time. But what is this bill about? The bill suggests that people who are granted clearances on the basis of humanitarian views or because of special contact with the country can leave immediately and find work if they are otherwise transferred to what is in the vast majority of cases. As the law is today, people who receive this kind of living permit have to apply specifically for employment license, and it is called temporary employment licenses, which are linked to a particular job. Therefore, what a person needs to do when he has a living permit, has a social security number, is that he needs to find a job, he must find an employer who is prepared to hire him without having a work permit - he has a social security number and no job permit - and wait for up to three months after the application for a job permit. The employment permit is subject to the labour agency's approval and there is a significant procedure that needs to be carried out; provide the provided data and other items that are also a regular burden for an employer which needs a lot of control with this application. The employment permit is tied to this particular job. So if a person finds a job, it's so lucky to find a job, and get this job license, but something changes after a few months, the person needs to go through the whole process again and start naturally with a job that's ready to go through all this. The current arrangement allows a considerable number of people who have been authorized to live for the above reasons without having the authority to support themselves by means of employment. It is also noted that the employment application of such persons is generally agreed by a labour oce. However, the process includes barriers that significantly limit the availability of these individuals to the labour market. The changes suggested in the bill have already been presented, and I do not know any better than to restore them in the bill of the Minister of the Interior to change the laws of foreigners and the laws of foreign rights. That bill, however, is dependent on their failings, despite the positive changes that are being made there, as is the one suggested here, that the bill contains other changes in the laws on foreigners that are at odds, not to be taken deeper this time. Have the terrible suggestions, I'll allow myself to say, which will prevent the immutable changes, e.g. ... you'regoingtoend. Since the government has decided to have the means to mix good and bad, I see no solution to these urgent changes but to make them available in particular. So there is no disagreement about these regulations, and should this bill rightly fly through the council so that people in this position no longer have to accept compensation from a government fund for which they have no need and no interest in if they simply were allowed to earn a living. But you can't. Valuables are granted on the basis of foreign law. Job permits are given on the basis of the laws on the job rights of foreigners. The rules of the law which I suggest to be changed to the bill are so in effect, according to 1 mg. 1 1. the law of temporary rights of foreigners is exceptionally allowed to grant temporary employment permit on the grounds of certain occupations in this country if a foreigner has previously been granted temporary leaves, patents on the basis of humanitarian grounds, housing licenses for the potential victim of the man's room, patents for the victims of the human room, license for parents, licenses on the basis of special relations with the land, or housing on the basis of legitimate rights required by the laws of foreigners on the preconceived conditions. The bill is suggested to refer to a patent on the basis of humanitarian proposals and patents on the basis of a special relationship with the country will be reassigned from this list. Of course, I'd like to put it all away myself, but I'll explain why I don't go any further than this time. With 2 st. The bill, and that is the change that results from the other one, has been proposed to change the range of 12. legalized the trade rights of foreigners. In accordance with current regulations, a person who has a patent on the grounds of humanitarian behaviour needs to have a work permit in order to stand as a permanent resident through a family union where he can obtain a work permit. A person who has a permit on the basis of humanitarian views on the right of family unity with his closest caregivers, as described above. Of course, this refers only to a marriage mate, a future child, or an elderly parent, and no one else. However, if an individual's partner has a living permit on the basis of family unity, he or she must work without her existing mate having a work permit. This is, therefore, a physical change in the absence of the requirement that the person on which the right is based has a work permit for the marriage partner to be able to obtain employment permit. Is the change in accordance with the second terms of the bill, where it will no longer be required that a foreigner who has a permit on the grounds of humanity has a work permit and therefore cannot be required to obtain family unity. This was my attempt to comment and explain a paragraph that covers an entire paragraph of a paper with my bill, and I've been asked to explain where it seems incomprehensible. So that's what we're talking about. In 1st. Twenty-two. the legislation on the job rights of foreigners is given to individuals who are nominated for temporary employment permits in this country. In effect, you don't need a work permit, you have a spontaneous work permit. With a factor of 3. The bill is suggested to add two new letters, g-and-h- team, which will be listed as persons who have been authorized on the grounds of humanity, or for special contact with the country, such as this one has been attributed. As I mentioned earlier, I would personally want to go much further, take more classes out, and even go so far as to allow all the people who have been allowed to stay to go directly to the labour market without having to go through another legal process to do so. The reason that the bill has not gone further is because these changes have already been proposed by the government and will return here soon, I expect the unity of these changes to exist and that we can accept the bill with a large part of it at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u46	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before the speech, and she has a good knowledge of this legal class, I think it was clearly presented here. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the Parliament to see if the change it suggests is in the same way in the Northern States, i.e. to grant work permit to this group applying for residence, to those who are granted residence warrants for humanitarian purposes and to such special contacts. Like what? A member rightly mentioned them as having a similar set on a bill that has been announced by the minister of justice. You ask yourself, " Is this bill really needed? ' I also wanted to come on one thing in this relationship. We now had a recent meeting with the Foreign Institute, where a number of applications were made for the rest of the trustees and those who are applying for a permit on the land. The number of applications has increased considerably in a very short time, and the number of applications may increase in the number of applications has been foretold in the Foreign Institute. It can increase by about half in a very short period of time, and we may be seeing some 1,500 applications annually just within two or three years, which can really mean and will double the budget for the party of $3 billion today. In a year, which has become a substantial amount. Will these changes affect whether there will be more interest in coming here and applying for residence?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. With regard to the state of the North, I simply have to admit that I have no idea. I don't know if these residents have a work permit there, but I don't think that would be too unlikely, considering that such a general public interest in government bills has been investigated and stressed that we're following in various countries, but I don't know it personally, unfortunately. That's a very legitimate question. Why am I putting in a bill that will actually be submitted soon? As I said before, it has been brought forward repeatedly and has not been accomplished. It is simply because there is tremendous opposition to other regulations in that bill, and it is increasing rather than shrinking. So I don't necessarily expect things to work out in the near future. However, these changes are urgent and are in the best interests of all. The situation now is what might be called a good Icelandic flannel-lose, where everyone loses, so I think it's something that's settled and we should, in fact, cut back and discuss the rest later. It's about whether this is gonna work like what is sometimes called an English ball factor, which says someone who pulls people into it to come, I don't believe in it simply because it surprises people when they get permission to stay here that they can't work. I think people generally walk out that if they went to another table to stay, they have a chance to get a job, so I don't expect this to have any effect on people's decision to come here and want to stay on land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Even to those who claim that individuals come to the land to seek social benefits or other such, they are not waiting for this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u48	The president reminds the senators to respect the speech lesson and the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u49	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Today, for example, in this series of languages, there are growing rules in the North countries, Denmark, and it would be very interesting to know whether or not the requirements set out in this bill are found in this issue, e.g. correspondent in Denmark There is something else I would be interested in finding answers from what happened. A senator, i.e. if she has studied the potential of this law, e.g. impact on the level of employment in this country. We now went through a lot of unemployment during our viral epidemic, and it just went up to 25%, e.g. ... inNortherns. Unemployment in Europe varies from country to country, for example. 14% in Spain. Then you ask yourself, " Will this be easier for these people who are applying for housing rights because of their humanity or special contact with the country, to affect the level of employment in this country? ' I think this is something we have to look at. It would be fascinating to know if there's a problem. A senator knows what this is a large group of people on this issue, who are being granted housing on the grounds of humanitarianism or special ties, for of course it also works. But, overall, it has been an emphasis on my speaking that we should look to the northern countries in action. It is intensifying the rules because things are getting there that are headed for disaster, and it is clear that not all the millions of people who seek a better way of living in other countries can be given permission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again for the questions. I would like to justify the fact that the changes presented here have no effect on the rights of the people in order to get a living permit in this country, so there is no evidence that this will have any effect on the number of people here having permission on the grounds of humanity. So I looked up and looked up. A senator was asking, and in 2021, there were 15 people who were granted permanent leave on the grounds of humanitarianism. I'm sorry, I don't have numbers for those who were granted a permit on the basis of special relationships, but there are very few people in my experience. In terms of labour market status, this is certainly why employment permits does not follow all living conditions in Iceland automatically. Their authors may initially have been concerned that there is not enough work for all the people who are allowed to stay here. But on the other hand, if these people don't get to work and support themselves, they'll have to take money from the state funds to support themselves, since, better yet, this is not a good time to put people out completely of God and filled when they can't win, although they can share the resources offered for them. Then I'd like to mention that according to the travel council plan, just to mention other people's assessments in the position where there are other specialists than I on these matters, there are about 8,000 people here to fill up the positions that need to be filled in the near future. If we expect 15 people a year, I think we might need to open the door more in order to reach that number.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u51	Madam President. Farming, a basic work programme in Iceland, is now fighting for its existence. No other conclusion can be reached when we see that this article from different directions has been drawn for years, and it is difficult for farmers to continue farming. The consequences of the failure of Icelandic agriculture to become a target would be immensely negative to the whole country in many areas. I mentioned that the article was being picked up in many directions. You can, for example. mention that there have been very adverse customs contracts, especially with the European Union, the import has been increased, the import has been authorized to produce raw and unbound foods. Money agreements have been less efficient than previously, and particularly in comparison with other classes, which play an important role in society, and the cost of habitats has increased dramatically, including the U.S. Perhaps not least because of the ever greater demands on farmers in terms of equipment and so forth. Delegates have all increased at the same time. They need to respond; governments must respond in a decisive way. In this synonym, we report how to turn the prevention into an application, how to remove this crisis, that is a crisis faced by agriculture, and as a result of the food production in Iceland, instead of the parish, to build up, to improve the country's more valuable things, to improve the quality of farmers, and to the interests of the nation of all. The proposal takes on a number of aspects of agriculture in Iceland. They're listed as 24 special joints, all of which remain in the hands. This is the full schedule for starting this application. We suggest that the prime minister be assigned to follow through on this matter. Why do we do this? Yes, because this is such a matter for the community all in so many areas that a prime minister is expected to react there, intervene, and ensure growth and the survival of this article. We're just not sure to mention that we're giving much support to agriculture. Farming in Iceland is fortified, as is the case in other similar countries, even less than for developing in Norway and Switzerland, but what we receive in return is far more valuable. This, like so many other factors, needs to be viewed for the overall effect. This is often lacking when making decisions on the expenses of the state's budget, since the overall impact of having independent, wholesome, healthy food production, the overall impact, the economic impact, for the community is that contributions to the article are almost minor in comparison. We are repeatedly, regularly, reminded of the importance of this article. It saved Iceland to form most likely from bankruptcy in the collapse of the bank when it could not be remembered that there were enough currency to keep the government going, business with foreign countries, but by saving about 50 billion dollars. This year as a currency, farming was making a fortune at the time. Again, we were reminded of the importance of this article when the epidemic began, and questions were raised on how to maintain goods between countries and production. Despite these strong reminders, governments have failed to respond accordingly. On the contrary, at the council, you often hear a discussion saying that too much money is being placed on the farm. But, Mrs. President, 16 billion a year compared to all the rest, I don't talk about taking steps to deal with other activities because of the epidemic, compared with the many financial expenses, that's not a lot of money, but they are returning a lot. So we need to look at the bigger picture, and there has been a lack of it. However, despite the considerable protection of the article now, and indeed in danger, the application tools are still great if we decide to use them; sustainable Icelandic agriculture, healthy production, the arrangement for building on families as we have made, the ability to use energy change, production of consumption in Iceland, back to the point where the former senator, the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, was slow to bring attention to national interests and environments, but also to produce new products, new products of new products, of whatever kind of proteins that were not once known. There, Icelandic innovations have produced remarkable results, and innovation is often the least out of old basics. These are not contrasts, however, but the more professional, the better equipped they are to attack innovation and create new products and increase value production. For example, consider the importance of the fishing road in supporting Iceland's innovations. But as I could before, everything has to hold hands. For one operation, as occasionally done, a preliminary procedure to address a particular problem is no longer a solution. Approaching this by temporary measures that often come too late and are too small does not mean that we get out of what might become a very expensive protection to a profit - making offense. But we have the opportunity to do so at the same time, to make everything play together, and to follow through on the investment. We'll have to, at the same time, revise to make the unfortunate agreements I mentioned earlier. Of course, it was an ideal situation when Britain did not leave the European Union at all long ago to request a review of an adverse toll agreement with the European Union. Instead, we see the government approaching it in the opposite way, i.e. by planning to apply this unfortunate agreement to the European Union in Britain. Of course, we should go the other way and say: We now have some adjustments and we need a more convenient contract, more suitable for our industry here in Iceland, and for our basic work to maintain this industry. The same applies to the agreement on import of raw, unstuffed and unbound foods. It was recently in the news that Icelanders could no longer buy cocoa. This is because the European Union does not agree or has not formally approved any colouring agent used in the manufacturing process. In other words, the system is being used as a business barrier. The United States closes some products from Europe because they do not have any material in food from there on their list, although there is no significant evidence, or there is no evidence that there is harmful material. However, the local food often carries harmful material to consumers. The use of antibiotics is very excessive in food production in large, foreign factories. The same is true of other medications as shown by experts. They have identified the risks associated with this, but if the European Union can prevent the import of kofpaff from importing because it has an colour that is not provided with the correct E number, it must be able to prevent the import of food that can harm the health of the people of the country and is relevant to anything other than Icelandic food, since the emphasis on pure production and, in fact, environmentally friendly production has been found. Of course, it is more expensive than the production of factories that use steroids to increase the production of meat. Of course, it must be more expensive, but its values return again and again and again. In fact, it is very interesting and remarkable how relatively cheap Icelandic food is compared to the cost of commercial farmers and food producers when compared with the foreign producers. It is simply wrong to let the Icelandic farmers, the family prepared, meet all the great and expensive demands on them but at the same time compete with the production of factories in foreign countries where the staff is much each on a salary that would not really be acceptable in Iceland and would be illegal. I don't think any other profession in Iceland would accept it to make it possible for workers to be brought in here to do a job on a much lower salary than anyone in Iceland. However, this is really the situation in which Icelandic agriculture has been placed, in which to compete with the subjugation of foreign production. The growth of this production has increased, and as a result, the competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural environment has increased. As I mentioned at the outset, this is a very important plan and not a time in a short talk to review each item, but it all holds in hand. If this whole operation programme is under attack, we will be able to escape the expensive protection of a successful quest, but if not for the measures needed, we will watch continued reductions in Iceland, continued the fall of Iceland's farms and others working on food production, and an enormous impact on society, as agriculture is the foundation of another structure. If the countryside is destroyed or the ground is sold for anything other than production, it will prevent so many others. Farmers are also very active in caring for important roles in their habitats, both professional and social. This case is a matter of doing what it takes to maintain a living in Iceland in the way we have experienced for over 1,000 years, i.e. that the country is built around Iceland, where it is built, and that we produce our own food, Madam President, and to a greater extent than we do now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before his speech and can agree with much of what the senator says about the need to improve food production in Iceland. It is absolutely necessary, and I myself am looking primarily at the grain industry that can be attacked and will be able to help us greatly to support the areas that are highly qualified for gardening but that we have not cultivated enough. On the other hand, I see a lot of things where I'm not quite sure I can sign and I want to say that we're and have been a first-growing country ever since Iceland was built. We ate our meat and fish from barrels and acid and salts back here in the past, but we deal with other nations through our production and we need to negotiate with other nations. However, there we are being suggested to cut down and cancel certain agreements that we have made with other nations because we do not need communication. Does the senator expect them to cooperate with us in other matters if we are to reject them in these respects?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u53	Madam President. I don't think there's any reason to believe that any other nations will not be prepared to cooperate in each area where cooperation is a common interest. Of course, there are many, but in the field of food production, Iceland is no exception to the fact that we need to take into account our circumstances here and unregistered import of food to form, just to look at the biggest film, would destroy domestic production because to produce one Danish dairy farm could only produce the tire of the Icelandic market and get rid of it here. Contracts need to be based on mutual interests. It is not our best to make contracts that further open to the import from the factory people who in many cases use antibiotics, even steroids, to increase production and that have people working at an unsaturable market in Iceland who expect the Icelandic family to compete with it. These are treaties that are against our Icelanders and that in other words do not involve mutual interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his answer, but there's another side of the deal rather than just producers. The other side is consumers, and as measured, food prices in Iceland are 40% higher than those in the European control countries and food and drink prices are the third highest in Europe. I'm asking, how are we going to make this work? Is the production in Iceland much more expensive to consumers? Does this apply in all articles? So, just because it's supposed to be Icelandic, would it be okay to let an Icelandic nation pay prices that are entirely associated with what others have been paying off almost all over the world? This is one of the most expensive lands in the world, and we are paying for the necessities of life much of what other nations have to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u55	Madam President. Food prices in Iceland are not relatively high, i.e. if the prices are adjusted for each individual's income. Thus, international comparisons show that the percentage of food purchases is much lower in Iceland than in many other European countries. In this context, Spain might be mentioned, although it may seem that food there is cheap. The Icelandic products have often held back prices of food and were relatively more efficient than importers, and we should guard against examples such as from Finland, where increased access to import was simply leading to an increase in the burden of products. Food foods such as dairy products and meat are at a very competitive price compared to places such as New York City. Price is different within the country. If you go to a grocery store in New York City and see how much milk you can get, see how much food costs the meat, then they see the prices that often and times are much higher than in Iceland. But the other thing, perhaps the main thing, is that it's practical for the nation, for the overall interest, is now that we need to look to them for the overall interest of the people in buying domestic products. Consider the overall picture, and it is a major advantage of Icelandic agriculture. I think it would be very dangerous if we began to evaluate other employment practices on the same basis that, yes, we could get things in a much less expensive way if we weren't following all these Icelandic pay and stuff. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u56	Madam President. I want to thank you for this fine discussion and thank the advocate of a good summary and review. To me, people are at stake here. One of the strongest theories in the health age world is the macrobizotic theory. To maintain health, energy, and longevity, let us choose what grows naturally in our environment. It can be a root vegetable or what is meant here. We see our health system falling apart, they're reaching half a billion, I think, health expenses in Iceland. Is there a link between this and that of the human beings, with all the extensions, all the e- matter and all kinds of things that are put in the interest of the manufacturer instead of the consumer? Is this to include and cause actions that have not been conclusively demonstrated? People's health should be our chief concern, and this should allow much more intensive and more vegetables to be produced than ever before. Well, it seems to me now that agri-gri-gri-future is raising an issue, just today, something that Inga Sæland Land has been talking about for years. Remember, land activation and all these fortresses were started with promises, including ours. believe that the cost of this would gradually be subsidized, especially by foreign buyers, aluminium companies, and others, and thus the Icelandic consumers would receive a very useful price when subsidies were completed. This has been swept under the carpet, these promises of old time. I'm an adult enough to remember this. I'm sorry, but I think that this European directive on what we met and did not show up in the electronics, the exchange of total sales and retails in ways that were more and more expensive, caused the energy prices to be way too high than what should be. Now there is one of the great advantages of living in Iceland that these green energy flow from the bowels of the earth and from the falling waters. But, indeed, Icelandic florists and vegan farmers, and all farmers, in another country, enjoy a somewhat harsh way of getting their energy at a total price and being able to produce organic macrozotian food in us as much as possible and to export it as possible. Then I come to what I believe to be a key here, that we look at nations that have achieved success in food production, quality production, and her globally called broom. Let's look to France, look at all the Brie manufacturers and the champagne manufacturers and all the food they produce in France and have been placed in a high - quality category, a desirable category, in which there will be mirrors to your efforts and production quality. I think there's something that we need to consider very seriously, I know that there have been experiments with this and, of course, efforts, directed from the Farm Hall through the years. We've got an excellent result in an export now, but I think we should look at Šfjölven, the lips of Icelandic agricultural production, which may require a huge increase in opportunities and attention. Of course, I like to think like a saying, and that I think most of us, see the flowering farming all over the country, the main branch of Iceland's tourism is, of course, closely linked that there's a flowering landscape all over the country, an admirable farming on good - looking farms that produce wholesome food that promotes human health and improves and benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u57	Madam President. I can say with what. Senator on the energy situation. Of course, our agreements in this area or those requiring regulations have not necessarily proved to be good for us, including the effects of separating transport and production. I believe that land induction should have an overall effect on society, not just the profits people see on the books after the end of the year, but the overall effects for society. If so, decisions would be made to make. A senator mentions. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can agree with me that there are times when people may lack sense in how they approach these issues, this important area, the food production in Iceland, whether it's small or bigger. I'll mention one of these. I have, for example. I was aware that my rash consumption has been completely reduced, and it seems to be a measure of concern. But usually I don't want to try to eat skis with this little cardboard card that now comes with the cans, which makes it easier for me to buy something else that doesn't fit so well for the goals of human health. The larger example is this strategy for shoveling into ditches here and there and destroying agrienvironments without any confirmation that it works over the head, at least it is clear that if the land is not to be used for food production, it would be better in all respects to use it for forestry that would do much more good. But there are so many things in the politics these days, including... in the field of food production, which suffers for some virtualness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u58	In principle, I agree. We need to secure a powerful Icelandic agriculture, preferably organic. It is, I think, in many cases built up in Icelandic agriculture and I say for my part that I trust in Icelandic food production much better than in the mass production of foreign fields. I've watched a lot of horrible footage of how, for example, it's like... pigs are being thrown into a carrion machine alive, and as a result, I lost all appetite for pork. As I said before, mass production of food is always sold in TV commercials, in the books of the supermarkets worldwide, without being properly informed or aware of what has been put in place, what the manufacturer's interests are in place completely and how it affects us as partners. It provides canned products and provides all possible production products, even imported vegetables such as Portugal's aguar, which is being used by aerotetics, which are strictly forbidden. So basically, I agree, no matter what fashion trends or any dispute over the wetlands, or what it is. I believe in continued powerful Icelandic agriculture, and I'm willing to pay it more expensive price than imported goods because it is produced in circumstances I know and appreciate. I simply trust Icelandic farmers to keep our consumer interests first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u59	At the beginning of a talk, the members of Parliament remind us of a proper address.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u60	Madam President. The horror story about the little pig on a hacking machine made me aware of words worn by Otto Von Bismarck that the law was like making a hot dog, but it would be best not to see what it was like to do. On the other hand, I trust that in Iceland's hot dog model, it's a completely different form than it was shown in the form of a dog. A senator saw. It may be a reminder that we should do more than that of seeing the difference between how production takes place in a foreign country and in a beautiful family. But I was going to ask. A member of the council on a point he came on in answer to and in charge of certification. I couldn't agree more. A senator on the importance of this, and the importance is definitely to be increased. consumers increase demand and want wholesome food, and I think many Icelandic consumers want to buy mostly Icelandic production. But this has often been a failure, and it has even been avoided by importing goods and marking Icelandic flags because they put them in plastics in Iceland or something like that. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that we need laws, such as we have spoken to, members of the Central Party, clear rules on how to make a statement of origin and prevent men from cheating on that subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u61	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnolson made the case and the question. I agree that the certificate case has not been in enough force, or enough, let's say that it's accessible. They had a lot of work here, and they needed a piece of fine work, which was a company I think the local community was getting together at the turn of the century. For example, Baldvin Jónsson was a product of photosynthesis, providing exports in Icelandic agricultural plants, fish and meat, to shops such as Whole Foods, and others. But I believe that we should agree on a witnessing system that will be taken seriously and at a position that will be easy for ordinary farmers and producers to approach and go on. In most cases, I think we'll be able to resist the demands. There's one of the joints in that Šfjölvefjölólvótttir that I talked about here. We are a clean country, with clean water, clean air, and our image is closely related to goody, loyal, outdoors, and fines of various ways, as I was referring to here earlier. I say, it's an application tool that's been a little felt, but not followed. Marketing is an animal, and I think we should take these steps and make sure that they will be followed handsomely by financing that will make us all proud of Icelandic production on the markets around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u62	Madam President. I recommend here for the bill on changing the state radio law, which in short means the State Radio disappears in two steps out of a commercial market. Besides what it says here, the bill stands anyway. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson and Hildur Sverrisdóttir. This is the second time this material bill is presented, has made some changes in the timing of matters. The bill, as mentioned earlier, suggests changes in the law on the State Radio, No. 23/2013, which includes restrictions on the arrangements of the State Radio Advisory. The aim is to balance the competitiveness of the media to a stately media company. With 2 st. The bill is presented with a new provisional directive suggesting that first the Kingdom News will be banned from commercial sales, that the ratio of advertisements should not exceed five minutes per broadcast time, that the program should be broken by advertising, and finally proposed to avoid prosecuting. The limitation between January 1, 2023, and December 31, 223. The Kingdom Radio contest of a commercial market will then be stopped at the beginning of 2024, as mentioned in Article 1. The bill. By taking the Kingdom News out of a two - step competitive commercial market, however, the government of the State Radio has the opportunity to adapt business to changing circumstances, and if this is thought to be necessary from the hands of the financier, our legal legislation, here, to meet the state of the country because of the lower net income, the fundament authority, the Council, has a fine budget for it, or two years. Transporters suggest that the State Radio will be drawn out by a competitive advertising market and option will allow the company to have more space in order to perform the cultural roles it is intended for by law. The freedom of the media in Iceland cannot be shared, Madam President. At the same time as the competitive situation is misdirected by the legal protection of the state radio's superior position, private media drivers are faced with the intense efforts of international corporations into the advertising market. Free media are essential for open democratic discussions and provide government, employment, and society's main institutions with need. Sadly, the institutions and businesses of the state and of rural society are often in competition with private people. There is some evidence that public members, especially public societies, such as the Government Radio, have intensified their competitive activities in recent years. When the government competes with private business, it is important to ensure equality in the best possible way. Rules must be clear and marked on the scope of public competitiveness. Public agreements in a competitive market can lead to harmful, self-involved business on the market and lead to monopoly. Under such circumstances, new partners are made more difficult to get a market. It may be reasoned that government competitiveness can counteract the goal of a competitive, competitive, business venture. Officials often get a head start on the basis of the exclusive law. An example of this is the government's media operation under the hat of the TV ohf. Obviously, government competitiveness has a major negative impact on the business and economic affairs of independent media, most of which are living. Therefore, the limitation of the activity and later the ban on advertising competitiveness and cost should be placed on a different basis for improving the interests of independent media. According to the annual bill of the State Radio, the income of a competitive operation came back in 2020 of 1,946 billion. At a rate of 1,624 million dollars, the income of advertising was mined. K. However, it is unlikely that the income the government has earned from advertising sales will be unsatisfactory to the independent media after January 1, 2024. However, their income may be substantially increased and much more than is expected to be directly supported by the public. Transporters believe that it is more reasonable to strengthen the position of the unique media by severely limiting government competitiveness rather than developing a complex system of compromises and government ethics. This contributes to greater health in the media market. Madam President. If it is the will of the government, if it is our real will here, to support the diversity of the media, and to arrange for the continuation of the independent media to flourish, then there will be no way to change the law on the state radio. The balance cannot be avoided. Otherwise, we will be the doctor who distinguishes the problem and refuses to operate in order to get the patient to health, prefers to give him painkillers, relieves his suffering. If we don't have a chance to balance the game with a change in the state radio law, then we're in the position of the doctor who refuses to cut it away, and we, as it were, are supposed to support and strengthen the independent media, choose the way to stick it into the state's oxygen machine. Now it shall be confessed, and it shall surprise no one that I have had much doubt in my entire life that there is evidence that the state is over the head of a multicenter. But I understand many who are convinced of the need to support and promote the culture, history, and language of this nation. I don't agree with that attitude, but I understand it, and I respect it. But if we're going to compromise that we're acting in a reasonable way that we're going to handle government radio precisely to the point of supporting our culture and our history, promoting our tongue and our sense of nationality, we should do so in a manner that may have the least impact on our business and on the progress of independent media. That's what we do. by preventing the government from using violence as a competitive operation, in this case, according to this bill of advertising. Mr. President. It seems more fortunate that earlier today another bill was spread that might have been a good thing to be discussed here, hopefully coming on a schedule not too long, which is not related to the State Radio but is one of the ways I've been trying to fight for and share with my members in the Independence Party to support and promote the affairs of independent media, giving them real opportunities to expand and strengthen and perform their role in providing information, media and services and giving us who are here, organizations, businesses, jobs, interests, interests, normal and necessary living. That bill has to do with tailoring the taxation of independent media in a more reasonable way, i.e. That we recognize that there are many things here, not only the State Radio business, but also the abnormal competition that comes from international giants, which not only hit the beach when it comes to advertising of independent media, but also the State Radio, make another beach blow that is even harder to make, which is taking advantage of the information that these media put into them and that they are weak enough to produce. Some may argue that it is clean stealing. This bill I'm talking about is on the roof. It's 358, 254th matter, and it's about making changes in the insurance law so that insurance bills do not cover the pay of employees essential to the media independent, whether it is radio, TV, newspapers, magazines, Web sites to produce material. That means journalists, photographers, techs, advertising sales, etc., up to a certain level. Don't charge until you're on the top tax level. I felt it was proper and obliged to draw attention to this. I believe that if we make a decision to take these two steps, to accept the bill I'm measuring here for promoting a more healthy environment for the media in Iceland, that there is a reasonable balance, reasonable fairness as a state in the media management, by dragging the Government Radio out of a commercial market, and then having the opportunity to approve of this bill that I was referring to the insurance fee I was referring to that very little will promote the Icelandic media and the media press press more than two things. I challenge the U.S. Senate to assist me in these activities, and I promise you that none of you will regret it. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u63	V.E.G. President. Hv. Senators, councilmen, and all of the nation, of course. There was a time when I was starting to interfere with business that I did the social home necklace in Grindasvík, which was in 1974,1977. Then it was so that if I advertised three days on Our Kingdom News and one column of advertising in the Mogga, the whole nation knew there was a ball in a necklace. It was wonderful, and you weren't worried about how to advertise. I've been advertising all the media for more than 40 years, but over the past 17 years, I've been mainly involved in photon advertising, both at the Wavelium and by its stations and by all the stations outside the RuV. I'm worried about any company that appeals to the crowd, such as the company I used to be involved with, if there are no more advertisements in the media to which much is listened. I love to advertise the Revolutions, but if The State Radio falls out of a commercial market, I don't know exactly any company that appeals to the crowd, I'm going to search for their information and also the government that needs to tell people about something and something else. So I think we need to think this through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u64	Mr. President. This, of course, is a real indication. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson points out: Life was simpler in the past. I remember, when I worked in the morning paper as a journalist, and Baldvin Jónsson was there an advertising director, that life was relatively simple for commercial journalists. The car invitations only had to buy one full page of the morning paper on Sunday, and then buy one of the TV shows, Saturday night TV, and the country, and the tickets were covered. But since then society has changed. It's just changed and it's gonna change, and it's progress. I think that in the 21st century, we should rather wonder: Is it not some universal time error that makes us feel that it is necessary to compete with any flea who could be much more productive? In fact, when it comes to the competitiveness of government companies and the Kingdom radio, the radio will not even be able to see through its fingers when a person finds a small ledge to make some food out of, called sound. In that case, the State Radio will go to a special sound factor building. I'm not talking about publishing the programs that are done and being played on the radio. No, but special music shows, just because they saw that there were some people who were making sound programs that were very popular, raised income, etc. No, then the kingdom had to recover. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Senator, you're just coming on this quest with me. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for our tour. I'm a big fan of the free media. I am very grateful for those who have trusted in the scraping field in Iceland. Without Channel 2 and Herman's TV and the rest of the media, we'd be poorer. There would be fewer potential for mediation, including music. But I have a question for you. A senator who is real and who is not from my mind but from what I have heard from my mind in this context. I know a number of filmmakers who are concerned about this for the special reason that the state radio is the largest medium in the country and most people watch; the national television is so superior in its advertising that if the TV ads, i.e. The firms in the country that sometimes spend tens of millions in one advertisement, then on all the media - if the national television was cut out, are concerned that television advertisements would fail, i.e. if you were only willing to publish such subscriptions. I'm asking why. A senator: How did he view this as best spent?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u66	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may have just described the disease. Of course, it's because of the highest government TV on a commercial market that private people, free radio and television stations, can't invite people who are advertising, such as, Yeah. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson, the same thing the state radio can do. That's what it's all about. However, I have suggested one thing that is irrelevant: We, the common people, put 5,000 million on the TV, and then there are advertising. Why do we not make up a program fund? Why don't we put all these 5,000 million in the program fund that developers and moviemakers around the country can pick up and make their own material, instead of running a booth called Top Search? If there were a 5,000 million dollars, do you really believe that there would be no more flowering films in Iceland? a fund to promote and promote programs on radio and television, radios, and radios, all over the country? I think this might be the step we should take next time. Maybe I should, top dog. President, putting in such a bill, and then perhaps they'll come together, Tómas A. Tómasson and Jakob Frímann Magnússon, with me on that journey. I know that interest among artists and developers and, in particular, moviemakers for such matters is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for those words. I'm not taking sides, I'm asking if the movie scene's fears are real. I know their fears are real, which are on the free market, and all the media in Iceland are fighting on the banks. Like music, magazines are having serious problems, for as in the past, the material is being used everywhere. You're getting through Google, and YouTube is about as much as you want, free of charge. Would it not be one of the defenses of the huge Silicondal Corporations, whether written or written, news, music, or films, to be given a normal currency, a worthy tax and something that counts as normal and normal in Iceland? I state that I agree wholeheartedly with the strength given by the media during the recent years. I think it's inevitable in this situation. It's metabolic times in media and press, music and film production. It's all about to change, and I guess we've come to believe that this is how it's going to be forever. I'm just happy to hear it. That's why a senator is supposed to do fair improvements. But we have to reflect on the whole thing before it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u68	Mr. President. Of course, I understand that people are concerned that this may have some negative effect on what they are doing. But the changes are not to be feared, and then they do not change and live in the poisonous soils that are already in the media environment. I am absolutely convinced that with these changes, there will be just another opportunity for Icelandic filmmakers, and they have been creating other mediums, in different forms, etc. So this should be viewed as an opportunity rather than as a threat. But to be told, I don't agree with what. A senator when he says that the need to give strength to independent media media activity was necessary, as has been the case. Although I am the sponsor of this government, I did not feel that I could support the bill laid down by the government during the last Parliament for official support to the free media. It's against everything I stand for. It is one of the greatest dangers that free the media to depend on the funds, on us politicians, on the government box. It's like an opium you'll never make. A multicenter, independent polycenter, with a large part of his life under the approval of politicians, the possibility of being pumped out of the government box, will never be independent. That's why I'm directly opposed to official support for independent media. [[The president calls.]] How much wiser it is to get into a competitive position and then make tax adjustments that ensure equal status of the media!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u69	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for a synonym of sympathy. I'm the first carrier, but with me, the messengers of Signý Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdænsdæn Sjörn, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Hafsteinsdóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Vagn of Stefánsson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir G., Harðardóttir Olsen, Ásthildur Lóldur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Kristinsson, A. Rafn, Jakob Frímann Oddný, GóðssonssonÓlafsson and Ournardrán. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to assign a health minister to order a group of personnel with the objective of identifying and making suggestions for promoting the mental health of health professionals who work to help others, such as health workers, police, fire departments, and play, basic and higher schools, etc. The role of the task force must be: a. Find out the problem, i.e. Research for professional quality of life in these articles with emphasis on empathy, secondary trauma, coldness and condiversity, b. compares results with those obtained in other countries, c. use the results to compare work-related quality of life between occupational units and thereby to the need to be evaluated; d. suggest options. The secretary of the Council explains the results of the group and suggests that some measures will be carried out as late as November 1, 2022. This arrangement suggests that a health minister will be assigned to appoint a group of workers who have the objective of identifying and making suggestions on how to improve the spiritual health of those who help others. A number of foreign studies have shown that the health and educational system is a threat to compassion, second degree trauma, coldness, but that there is a protective component of compassion. In very simple terms, a sense of sympathy is felt when professional workers give more of their own energy to their work than they can get back. Experts have identified fatigue in two, second stage trauma, and coldness. In order to explain the depth of empathy, the first thing to do is to say that a person's experience or experience an event that he thinks may be life - threatening or causing serious injury to himself or others. His reactions can be intense stress, fear, panic, and lack of help. A certain proportion of those affected by these events are affected by a psychological disorder, e.g. post-traumatic stress disorder. According to the definition of sin, it is not only those who have personally experienced the traumatic event that may develop posttraumatic stress disorders but also those who hear or witness about the event. Dr. Charles Figley pointed out the fact in 1995 that many professions, such as psychologists, teachers, nurses, and others, are developing symptoms that would be comparable to symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder, when they witness repeatedly the suffering, anguish, and grief of their clients and that there is a qualification among professionals who are involved in helping others. After that, Figley defined a second-stage trauma, fatigue, and compassion. He says that it is human to experience a physical and spiritual response to witnessing the suffering of another person. A second - degree shock is the experience of an employee who finds that his work has a significant impact on his well - being. This may be reflected in experiences related to his work, insecurity, hopelessness, anxiety, sadness, ancientity, or emotional numbness. A second-degree event may occur following a single event or a recurrent event. Although the term colding is more and more frequent during the discussion, there is still wide agreement on its definition, although the symptoms are generally recognized. The World Health Organization has not yet defined coldness as a disease or disorder but defines coldness as secondary to chronic stress at work. Although formal analysis is not yet performed, it is a real threat to coldness. Clarion is believed to develop gradually over a long period of time when the effects of stress or stress on work are not met, and these include symptoms. with emotional exhaustion, a negative reaction to workmates and workplaces and a negative assessment of your own abilities with less confidence and less efficiency. One health - care provider has feelings of sympathy when he is at work, has security in his workplace, has confidence among his colleagues, that what he does is important to the person he serves, to his partners, and to the community. Then the worker gets energy back from the environment that weighs against the energy he gave to help others. A compassionate approach can be made with intervention, e.g. with training and courses, receive professional guidance, have clear boundaries between work and personal life, give room for relaxation and meditation, and finally pay attention to what is being done well, and pay attention to strengths. It may be easier to work with a degree of trauma than with coldness, so it is important to identify the problem as soon as possible. National research shows that there is a growing problem among health care professionals. Also considered to be a special risk to work in emergency centres and oncology centres. Prior to the present pandemic, Covid-19, studies indicated that there is a greater degree of compassion among health care professionals and it would be necessary for companies/ companies to reflect on the importance of fostering human resources. As the safety of the professional has been threatened and the work conditions have been even more challenging, the lack of compassion may be felt by Covid-19. It has been found that when workplaces stress empathy with intervention, such as a course of empathy and sympathy, they are more sympathetic, less sympathetic, and less likely to disappear. Last December, General Alma Möller noted that the staff of the Land Hospital was wearing off, and in this context, she pointed out that as much as 20% had ceased in other countries because of pressures. In order to identify the problem, it is often used by the Professional Quality of Life Measure (ProQOL), a measuring device that presents a negative and positive effect of helping those who have experienced or who are experiencing some kind of suffering, anguish, grief, or trauma. There are no studies in the country where the ProQOL self-assessment scale has been used to study the work-related quality of life. Transporters believe that it is important that such self - esteem be introduced so that the scope of the problem can be determined. Transporters strongly feel that the way the system cares for the people who serve to help others will be examined. The cost of illness, overfatigue and negative effects from stress symptoms is high, whether for the individual or for the system. Therefore, it is important to design data models in order to evaluate who are at greater risk than others to develop empathy, which could be used earlier. There is a need to identify and make suggestions on how to promote the mental health of a professional who is working to help others in order to improve health benefits and prevention. Clearly, we need to examine the work environment of these individuals, taking the lead in keeping our good people happy and healthy. So I ask for a resolution of this resolution proposal to the welfare committee and to be discussed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Ingibjörg IÓlöf Isaksen you'll have to find my way through this very important case. Here's a new word, and I'll admit I hadn't heard it before it appeared to me in this case. This is like the introduction of a conscious awakening to gastro-oesophageal reflux. It took some time to get used to both the word "recognition " and the word gastroesophageal reflux, both coming out of the mouth of the well - known son of Jón Þorvaldsson. I deeply agree that this is an urgent and timely matter, for it is, of course, regarded with respect and admiration by the doctor, nurse, and health workers. But usually the attention is to those who need help; patients, and at times forget that the caregivers sometimes have to supply their own energy more often than not to those who are in need and low in energy. And there is a very real risk, in my opinion, especially in today's ongoing epidemic season, that many are long tired and are actually very difficult for our other very good health - care providers. That's why I want to express some support that this group can reach the very first. I'm pretty sure the results will surprise us, and then we'll respond quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-26-27.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you. 1st. That's the north side. ... forthiscommunicative proposal. It's very important. We talk about health care professionals so often in this context. One thing that we also need to take into consideration is the legal guardianship of this discussion. In particular, the law is breaking down on Covid and on all these projects. We drive really hard on staff, for example. Police officers who have less than five years of experience because we are losing people to cold because of stress. These are the people who enter the most dangerous situation, who are dealing with people who are even at the most difficult moment of their lives when the police come to help. When the police arrive, it is often even the worst of situations, just as the health - care providers are involved. I urge those who take this very important assignment to take good care of the police too, for they are also in enormous danger, and their lack of compassion is very common. I appreciate it, it's a really good thing.
