ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament's Council for Kristrún Frostadóttir, 3th. Smoke. So, be absent in the near future. So today, on Monday, February 28, we are taking our place at the General Assembly 1. A deputy of the United States Association list, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Bryjordsdótttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament's Council for Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, 11th. Smoke. n., won't be able to do Congress soon. Today, then, Dagbjört, the High Lady Hákonardóttur of 1 strategist of the party's list of districts, sits at the General Assembly as his assistant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u2	Dagbjörtur's letter has already been investigated and approved, but it has not taken place in the World Council before, so it has to be signed to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u3	A day-old Dagbjört's Hákonardóttur has signed her word of honor to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u4	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 403, of the retirement age of the government's public community, from Birgir Þórarinsson. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 429, about settlements near a fire - burning area in the South, from Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. A letter has been received from the Ministry of Education and Children where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the application of the letter. 375, the adjustment of children to school, from Ásthildur Þórsdóttir Finally, letters from the social and workforcer have been received on request every request to provide written answers to panel requests. 128, on social insurance insurance insurance, from Birn Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, to a threshing floor. 110, U.S. National Insurance Agency, Óli Björn Kárason, to padding. 432, on the uniform welcome of refugees and crews. 433, the estimated increase in cost of refugees, both of Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Food Minister, Environment, Energy and Climate Ministers, Education and Children's Ministers, Social and Employment Services Ministers, and University, Industrial and Development Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u6	A respectable president. Although there's enough money to be taken into Icelandic politics - I could come up here and severely criticize the government for quiet policy in the sea, for not being completely equal, so I don't talk about the economics -- it's not my main concern right now. I have just arrived from the EU Parliamentary Conference and NATO State on Defense, State and Security, and normally the program was primarily about this horror attack by Russia in Ukraine. It was incredibly precious to listen to the Ukraine ambassador with an emotional speech and leader of the government opposition in Belarus, Svetlana Tsíkhanovskaju, who we have met with several members of Congress when she visited the Icelandic Council earlier this year in which it was sharpening us, but much as it was precious to find a solidarity in the councils across Europe. All the senators were sharpening their governments, that there was not enough to be done. Then you felt pressure coming from inside to do more. There have been a lot since Friday, and I feel that the European community has increased and the international Russian pressure has gone up, as well. I would like to make it clear that I am very pleased with the decision of prime minister and as well as of the minister of foreign affairs, which have taken sides and declared solid harmony and cooperation with Russian oppression. I especially want to rejoice at what they have spoken clearly in these matters. But I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister. This has been an important step and decisive action by closing Russian airspace, but when can we expect a clearer course on the part of us Icelanders, a symbolic course regarding the open arms, the warm embrace to receive refugees, possibly from Ukraine? I'd like to know, and hear the decisive words here, as the Ministers have so far been saying, that we're ready in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u7	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the council talks here in Europe, and I would also like to say that I thought it was good to sense the solidarity of the councilroom when we discussed these matters in this field last week, the firm solid solid solidarity of all who participated in those discussions. It is of infinite value. It made it clear to all classes at the General Assembly that we are condemning this invasion. There was also a very clear view and the will of all members of Congress to help Iceland, including the U.S. Regarding humanitarian support. We immediately seized to put money in humanitarian assistance, which divides between the Red Cross and the United Nations establishments. And because of what? A senator in particular asks of refugees is estimated to be immediately today half a million people are fleeing, even being expected to climb up to 4 to 5 million. In answer to a question why. I'd like to make it perfectly clear that we're going to meet the refugees. V.E.G. The social and workforce minister has requested that he meets with a refugee committee and has met with her, asked her to evaluate the situation and make a suggestion to the government. We see that more of the refugees are women and children, and we are ready to welcome these people. Some will want to take temporary refuge, and others will not. In this regard, the refugee committee will try to evaluate, but it is clear that the Icelandic government is ready when the call comes to receive people here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u8	A respectable president. You see, it is not just to cooperate with Ukraine but at the same time to keep our values on democracy, about freedom, about human rights. We see that it is now the rule against democracy, that is oppression against freedom, and that is exactly what we are fighting, and that is how we stand together. I am the firm opinion that it was the best thing for us Icelanders to have from the beginning a full involvement in the NATO Atlantic Union and also a part of the European Union's core, i.e. the posts, through the EEA deal. Both have served our entire interests in Iceland. When it comes to safeguarding our interests, we need to protect our values, and we are with Ukraine. That's just the way it is for us today. I want to say the bottom line. Minister to me it matters that the government knows that she has a solid sponsor for the council when it comes to taking a decisive stand with the Ukraine population, with the democracy, with the human rights, with freedom. I'll have a drink here, a respectable president, Slava Ukraini.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u9	Mr. President. These events have also shown the value of world peace. Indeed, peace is the basis for all progress, economic and social growth. We can see that when it breaks out in this way, in this invasion, the lives of these people, ordinary people, are simply turned upside down, and they become refugees or take up arms. In Ukraine we are not discussing the issues we can deal with here when discussing economic progress, prosperity goals, and so forth. It may give us such tangible evidence of the value of peace. I know I speak for all of us when I say that we certainly hope that these wars will end as soon as possible. There has been total agreement about the cry for that. The warfare has to stop. We'll do our part in this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u10	Mr. President. As noted in the previous dealings, it has been a joy to see how well the Western countries stand together now after the devastating invasion of Ukraine, although perhaps preparation might have been better prepared. But now there is solidarity, and most important, NATO has proved its value, and the Baltic States, our friends peoples there, the Poles, and other countries in Eastern Europe are very beautiful, of course, to be part of this coalition, which supports these nations during these critical times. However, the position of the Icelandic government during this ideal period and the final one to the Atlantic Community has been quite a factor. That's why I'm asking the highest. During this present situation, prime minister: Does the government support all the increasing activity of the International Atlantic Community? There is a chance that future efforts will be made as things are developing and there will also be an increased support of the alliances to NATO in the way they can best do each of them. Supports the highest. Prime Minister and government all involvements in Iceland at the Atlantic Community and increasing its activities here, possibly building and strengthening Iceland's support of the coalition?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, even though I comment on it when he says that the government's stand has been ambiguous. He then indicated that the left movement's position is not the same as our team of fellow workers. But it is also available, and it has been reported about the Treaty written under 2017 and is repeated today, that we all have an approved national security policy for Iceland, including the United States. It is based on involvement in the Atlantic Alliance and, in the power of that national security policy, I speak as a representative of the Icelandic government at the scene of the Atlantic Community, where I was on Friday at a summit and crossed the government policy on these topics. This has not been in the confusion, it has been completely reported since the beginning of the last terms and is still clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u12	Mr. President. I would have expected the highest. The prime minister and head of the National Security Council answered the question about whether they will be supporting the continued and increasing activities of NATO in Iceland and strengthening Iceland's support of the coalition. These were the questions I asked, but they didn't answer. It has also been during the day that one of Europe's greatest weaknesses in dealing with this state is how dependent Europe is on Russian gas and oil import. At the same time as the Norwegian government has just issued 53 licenses for the search and development of oil and gas in Norwegian jurisdiction, the Icelandic government has issued a prohibition on oil and gas search in Icelandic jurisdiction. Is it not proper to revise these plans and support by increasing the growth of essential energy, which, whether produced here in the West or in Russia or elsewhere, to increase the supply of these essential energy in the Western world? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u13	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator is concerned that Iceland has not lived up to the commitments presented in national security policy, such as As for the maintenance of defense men, I can inform you. In the last term, there was an increase in the amount of donations made to the Parliament. A senator led the government here, so I think that what. A senator should save himself such concerns. It doesn't change my hopes, as if hopefully for all of us, that world conditions will develop in a way that makes it more peaceful and nonviolent. The basic policy of my movement is to see to it that we resolve matters that we can resolve peacefully. Hv. There's a senator here asking about oil. Then I remind myself of the clear policy of the present government and the last to attack energy exchange because energy exchange is not only environmentally, not just climate, but also national security, because it is about how we can be independent of energy. [[The president calls.]] When we look at what is the right step to take now, it is not to start a search for oil in the landway to respond but to speed up energy exchange and, at the same time, achieve our climate goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u14	Mr. President. As last week, I rejoice that the government has firmly condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine and has taken a firm stand with the European Union and NATO countries. You might as well hear the Supreme Opportunity. Foreign Minister to pay this way for refugees from Ukraine. But I have to say, I'm worried about the lieutenant who's been at the highest. Minister of Justice. But a minister, with President's permission, said that there was a medical emergency at the Foreignland Institute and that it would delay the arrival of refugees from Ukraine that there were a number of refugees in Iceland that would delay the situation for others we would like to receive. This isn't all, Mr. President, it's just said the highest. Minister of Justice, too, by permission of the President: ▪ Many countries are concerned that people who do not carry their health are taking this opportunity to enter Europe. V.E.G. Prime Minister. This presentation is completely unacceptable. He's got the highest. Minister of Justice in Iceland's Government to raise groups against one another. Supporting refugees from Ukraine must not be used to undermine other refugees who have also fled from poverty, even the same plight, though they may be different from religion or of other races. It is our duty as a nation among the nations to provide support and shelter here, whether by Ukrainian public or by people of another race or by another race, who also flee war and persecution. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister if she agrees with the highest authority. Minister of Justice, and they are just as concerned about cheating in the system as they are about the abuse of this crisis. Is this the policy of the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important subject that I hear, both from last week's discussions as well as from this question period, is of serious concern. All council members. I quote what I mentioned earlier, that the Department of Social Affairs has already met with a refugee committee so that once preparation is made to welcome people from Ukraine. The domestic affairs of the National Institute of Iceland will not interfere with that welcome. I allow me to review here that it is not long since the situation was created in Afghanistan and Iceland's government first made a decision to receive a certain number of people and then made a new decision to receive an increasing number of people from Afghanistan because we felt that it was important for us to shoulder responsibility in the national community and that we took a relative advantage of more than the North countries on that occasion. So when we look at what has been done, we have not failed to accept responsibility in this regard. Hv. A senator is speaking to the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice. I just want to stress that this is a matter of discussing people in a more sensitive position and of course it's how we talk about these groups. From what we see, we know it's about that. Half a million may be on the run, and there may be four, five million as men try to provide for them. But we also know that the situation changes rapidly from day to day. We also know from what we have today that most of these people are undoubtedly willing to return, so there is a need to consider that we can receive people both for a short and for a long time and that we show that we are with the Ukrainians in their terrible circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. A refugee committee has mainly been thinking about the so - called cryogenicists, not the people who have come here voluntarily, the refugees who are looking for protection here. I think we have to figure it out, and all the government has to know that these are different groups that have very different services in Iceland. The second group has to go to the Foreign Institute and what is taking place there, and the other group is coming here by government. I also just want to roll over the state on the Ukraine border. The situation is worse on the border between Poland and Hungary. The latest figures say that 430,000 people have already come from Ukraine since the start of the invasion. So I'd like to ask both of us what we're going to do for these countries who are now receiving this incredible number, but also whether there's a new deal to Iceland's Red Cross now that the number of refugees coming here will be multiplied. It was just a matter of decision in Iceland's government not to renew the Red Cross agreement, so the jury facing the Minister of Justice and providing protection is in complete confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u17	Mr. President. Hv. A senator refers to these as being different groups, i.e. Greeters on the one hand and on the other, those who come here and voluntarily seek international protection. It was working during the last term to try to establish a consistent welcome system for refugees, including those with whom they lived. was a matter of assembly that stopped several times at the General Assembly. However, there were a number of activities, both at the scene of the Multihuman Institute, at work, and in order to try to synchronize this and to ensure that the reception is in harmony, whether it is vacated persons or people who come here for international protection. In terms of a deal with the Red Cross, I have to refer, in effect, to the highest level of that inquiry. Minister of Justice to handle the matter and the reasons for his decision, it has not been subject to the government. But I would also like to reiterate that we will answer the call to receive people, and I would also like to point out that it is also important to be more supportive of local humanitarian assistance, for the situation is, of course, very heavy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u18	A respectable president. We have our minds in Ukraine and especially in children, as well as in those who are disabled and who are ill, who are difficult in their usual times but who live in miserable conditions during wartime. Sadly, people in Iceland are also in other bad circumstances. Economic growth has not been paid to public security employees, a financial growth has not been seen for decades. An entire family recently faced a planned release of drugs. The drug cost was over 57,000, they could not solve the medication. There must be one of the most pathetic things to do when you have to set priorities. For whom family members should issue the medications? For the child, for the weakest? How to Choose The U.S. Department of Insurance says that remuneration can be paid on account of the cost of care, medical bills, hearing equipment, and electrical expenses for the use of oxygen. Remuneration is calculated from income and cost. Improvements, and now notice, are related income and will fall if total income exceeds 276,432k. per month. For total revenues over 276,432k. every month they fall down. Who's got these 276,432Ks? a month in total income? The highest. Social and employment secretary tell me that? What is he going to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u19	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and agree with him regarding what he originally said about Ukraine and its refugees. It is true that the senator did not have the same opportunity for all people to flee even if they wanted to do so. This is especially true of disabled people, such as mental illness. A senator pointed out. The senator's request turns to a replacement pension and equipment that is impaired when a certain amount is reached. I want to agree with that with what. A senator that this is one of the things we need to do very well now that the global reexamination of the biofuel system is being done. It's what I'm putting first in my ministry because we all know, and we all agree that the community that has been the most reserved group in recent years is micro-energy pensioners. We owe ourselves as a whole - we are all the same people, and we are to do better when it comes to this group and these people. It's a priority at my Ministry, based on work done over the past few years. We've been talking about how long this system has to be changed, and that's what we'll do together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of the utmost value for the answers. I deeply agree with him, but unfortunately, we have said so many times. As long as I've been at the council, it's been said, "This group can't wait anymore. " But he's waiting, and he's waiting, and he's still waiting. And what did we do here the other day? Yes, we agreed on a company interview scholarship. That's good. It could be taken care of in a few days here. But we can also increase access to public security services, we can raise the income of social security workers. We can do all of this now. This group should not wait any longer. It must have been a long time before we stopped talking about these things. Let's not let this group wait any longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u21	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree deeply on these matters. However, I would like to point out that there was a step, even though it wasn't huge, here during the New Year's season when an increase in the rate of a microenergy pensioner was more than if it had been compared to a change in prices. In connection with the government decision and the approval of the General of budgets it was ensured that the so - called fall in the crown would be removed so that when a certain increase comes in, it will not be impaired in a way that disability pensioners will lose all benefits. It was an enormous step that I decided to take at this time of the year. I'd also like to mention in this context that I changed the year-to-year Regulation on children of the micro-energy donor. In the past, for parents to be free of damage, their children needed, i.e. Over 18 years of age, in full - time education until 26 years of age, but now it is no longer a requirement, part - time education is enough. These are the little steps I mention here, but these are steps in the right direction and we'll take larger steps in the years because this is a priority group.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u22	President. The war in Ukraine began many years ago. In fact, it comes from February 2014 when Janúkóvítsj was elected from the Ukrainian Parliament. At that time, the Crimean was inside, and the Russians'information war began. It has been called a number of less names than wars, but it is necessary to call things the right names and actions of Russia against Ukraine, and many other countries are nothing more than an information war. There is a detailed report taught by Mueller, U.S.A., showing no doubt about the widespread attack on Russia's campaign in the United States in 2016. This attack was largely carried out on community media, The Book of Strategies, to public citizens. The attacks were extensive and achieved, including with the help of companies like Cambridge Analytica, to Bfenit, campaigns in Italy, Kenya, Nigeria, Mexico, Brazil, India, Hungary, and Malaysia. We know this about official research and a variety of data spills. We know that both companies and the state have been in general goods and attacks against citizens. We know about the Russian digital war effort. We also know that our defenses here in Iceland are not so good, maybe because we haven't taken these matters seriously enough, and maybe also because defences have turned on citizens rather than on defense for them. Russia's war against Ukraine also reaches us, for the scene of war is not just land, it is digital too. While such attacks against the United States may not be directly pointed to the digital attacks of Russia in Iceland. And since the cooperation of NATO includes digital attacks and communications, I would like to ask the secretary of communications: How is the defense of citizens in Iceland being protected from Internet attacks in view of Russian total war against Ukraine on land and NATO in a digital world?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is one of the chaos of today's situation that needs special consideration. Of course, in recent years, we have done very much on the Internet safety issues and have taken great steps to strengthen our defenses in these areas. We have now set the national Internet and information security policy where specific measures will be established in the various measures we need to take to better ensure the safety of the citizens when it comes to their full network security. We're working specifically on it as we have to do even better because of this position and we've put together a special staff at the Ministry of State and we're in cooperation with the State Department on that. It's over the head of a very big challenge, like a dog. A senator mentioned, but I'm sure that everything we've done in the past few years to strengthen these defenses will be important to us and to our citizens. I also know that better if it's good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u24	President. This digital war has lasted eight years. There are recent cases where members of the Parliament have faced certain digital attacks, including digital burglaries. It makes you wonder how the government's actions are becoming increasingly defensive, if not toward members of the Parliament, then at least to citizens. We're talking about an attack on NATO. What does this mean in the context of our cooperation? This is not a trivial matter in the context of what is happening since the real world. We're on a defensive network that also includes digital communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u25	A respectable president. There is a conversation between CERT-IS, the State Marshal and the State Department of State on the situation today, and there is a regular meeting for this situation and a plan to inform Internet security advice on the course of the situation. CERT-IS is an Network Security Agency. Of course, it is important that this cooperation works better, and it has now made a special plan for the highly efficient cooperation of the Ministry of Safety, the National Security and Defense Office under the Ministry of State, my Ministry on Network Security and the Ministry of Justice on Internet Crime. The cooperation we've had, including in Estonia, as well as the online security force we've established in the State Department, will hopefully come to our attention that we have a far better place than before. Of course, there are challenges now, and it is vital that we take the situation into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u26	A respectable president. It was indeed remarkable to enter the Hofburg Palace of Vienna on Thursday at the SE Council to receive news in the morning that one ASE state had launched an all - out attack into another. I was sitting about 2 m from the Ukrainian senator who gave a heartwarming talk. He described how the Ukraine Parliaments were armed with weapons and how members of Congress were planning to fight for their independence. He called for assistance, for weapons, for financial resources, for humanitarian assistance. Happily, in the last few hours and in the last days, the efforts of Western nations have increased and are now greater than we have ever seen since the end of World War II. But I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on a solidarity in the NATO states. How is the sound today in NATO, and should we not assume that this invasion of Pútín has exactly the opposite effect from what he had purposed? Won't we just see the protective alliance of NATO expanding to the east? I heard it in my case with my colleagues in Finland and Sweden that there was an increasing support for our entry into NATO. At the top. ▪ Prime Ministers expect us to receive early applications from Finland and Sweden and that NATO will even respond to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. What we can fully agree on is that there has been a great deal of solidarity in both the Atlantic alliance. A senator names here, and the European Union. Of course, we've had a lot of discussions with the European Union, Iceland and Norway. These measures were also under discussion at the summit of the Atlantic Community, and there was strong solid agreement on these measures, and there is absolutely no question that these are far more severe economic penalties than we have seen in the past. They are actually about opening the eyes of Russian governments to the position that this warfare is unacceptable. It is totally unacceptable in the national community, and therefore we will take up the harsh economic punishments that I believe we already see as having a certain effect. We hear that the music may be changing just because it's no small thing that's been done, whether you look at the energy market, financial markets, the Russian Bank, the SWIFTs, or all the individuals under it. Then I have not mentioned the closure of the airspace, which has also been determined in my consultations of countries, as well as visa rights. I want to say it because of what. A senator specifically asked about our friends, Finn and Sweden, that the leaders of these countries were at the summit, and he agreed that there would be increased communication now as a result of the situation in the continent. Of course, these leaders have previously attended the Atlantic Union summit, and whatever happens, I believe that the cooperation between the Atlantic Alliance and these countries is very tight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u28	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. Russian and White Russa responses at the SE meeting were, as in many parts of the international community, saying that they simply claim that this was a necessary procedure to prevent the Ukrainian genocide of the Russians. This is just like a bunch of crap that no international institution or media has ever been able to confirm. But these are the views of Russian and White Russian senators. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, to the question whether there has been a legal case for severe penalties against Beltland and whether or not there is a real concern that the Russians will simply use the land of Belt to get in the face of the severe punishments placed on the land. Finally, I would like to ask if there is no reason why the Allied Council of Iceland made a special mistake in condemning an invasion of Ukraine, requiring that weapons be taken down, that human rights be respected, and that international law is always respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u29	Mr. President. I can say every word from the mouth. A senator who discussed the possible conclusion of the Generals because this, of course, is the basis for what the Icelandic government is saying, that is respect international law, that is respect for human rights, and that is, the putting of weapons. I want to say why. A member of the Parliament specifically asks about White Russland or Belarus for the forced action reported on February 5 and February 23 is also directed against people in Belarus who supported Russia's attack in Ukraine. To date, a change in current forced labor measures against Belarús was reported with a list of 27 individuals and seven legislators who were under pressure, so that forced action against Belarus has been directed against individuals and legislators. We've been talking about it. We've also talked about going into the SWIFT system, as it was decided to do because we believe it is extremely important to get real results by these actions, that they really disappear, and that the Russians will abandon war.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u30	V.E.G. President. As we know, in the spring of 2019, a collective labour market agreement called the biographer agreements was proposed. Then came a contract with unions in a public labour market. On their contracts, the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter promised a number of measures that should be taken to ease the pay and maintain peace in the labour market. One of these measures did not directly turn to the economic or other activities but noticed the future environment of the work market, where it was promised that the government and the overall workforce would work together to make green books on the future environment of collective agreements and labour markets and that such a green book would be submitted to the Allied Council for discussion before making any policy-makers. It was reported that in the fall of 2020, in November, I am reminded that three men were mentioned as the most intimate people who began working to prepare the Green Book and discuss the workforce's parties, both the job drivers and the class members, on the subject of the Green Book. As the House of Congress points out, the Green Book knows what is the focus, what the mountains need to do, define the coverage, and then take it further along with the Council, and eventually become some kind of policy goal if all is to follow up. The work of the Green Book Committee has been hardly addressed for some time, and I realize that other projects may have been above the board. But I'd like to take this opportunity and go to the top. Prime Minister depending on the work of this committee on the future conditions of collective agreements and labour markets. And if that's how, like I've had a feeling for a while, that nothing's going on in this case, maybe we'll find out the minister. A general council of why it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir's a test subject for setting up the workforce's issues here. Well, that's not gonna help. That's exactly right, and I'm not going to repeat it as a dog. A senator went over, that I made this committee of green books in the fall months of 2020, and her work began in November that year. Like what? A senator was here to cover them in a somewhat broad way on the workforce, visit legislation, regulations, and changes in the labour market, including the workforce. In connection with the changes in technology I know why. A senator is very interested. They were looking for consultations with the workforce system, as well as the financial and economic representatives, the Department of Social and Employment Services, the European Union of rural society, and the office of the state of states of the Union at the time of this work. At the beginning, the labour market's content and opinions were called on key issues and opinions related to them. It is most recently reported that there was a very limited response to these wishes. A large group of people expressed deep doubts about this kind of work. This work would have to be given much more time than expected. It would have to take place at the scene of the officers of the entire organization, the leaders, the government before it could be taken any further. What we have done to listen to these voices is that we have looked to the realm of national interest. Like what? A senator knew the national body of the labour market, the government, and the Federal Bank first set up 2016, but in connection with biographies its role was revised and expanded for wide - wide occurrences and views within the council. Thus, national interests have, in effect, become part of the setting of this vital discussion. There are the presidents of each government, always prime minister and economic minister, the heads of the National Union of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Teacher Union of Employment, the United States of Iceland and the Federal Bank. It is most recently reported that there have been very frequent meetings in the national economy, and in 2020 and 2021, there were a large number of additional meetings with regard to Covid. Of course, it is true. A senator noted that a pandemic of some of the projects we were working with the workforce, but we have also been discussing in the field of national interest matters that can be said to be relevant to the workforce. At our last meeting, we spoke to make up the role of a Kingdom club and what reforms can be achieved in dress and grooming. It called for further statistics and additional data, to help assess the time between the release of the contract and the end of a bargaining table. For example, it has been criticized that we have too many contracts that will simply run out before entering the bargaining table. We have also been in the field of national interest to discuss the economic issues and their situation, which, of course, are special at the end of the pandemic according to extensive economic operations, how to proceed, and also housing. And it was after a discussion in the field of national interest that I decided to set up a restructuring group on the matter of housing. Extensive security, social security, unemployment insurance, support to children's families, ever-and-reeducation and its relationship to the labour market, as well as the mental health of the labour market. In this case, the workers of the work market have set up the areas of importance they value for the construction of the labour market. And if I was to try to convey it here, I would say that there is a great deal of pressure in wanting to discuss the labour market in the broad sense of that word, i.e. Not only our support systems but also what attracts advanced education, job markets, labour mobility, and so forth. So I'm putting this together in a very short summary, we've taken these matters up for the first discussion, we can say, in the field of national interest, and I hope that this discussion will then bring back to future work, as it was quite clear that sources felt that green bookwork could not be started unless it had been discussed in this field before. All we need to do is evaluate the situation as our efforts in the field of national interests come forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u32	The president would like to remind you that at a hearing like this, other members of Congress can not speak for one minute but as ministers and advocates.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u33	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to know that at the Hall of Congress, these matters are so important and so deeply involved, just to our future position as a community, as well as to the public status of the country, in the way we approach big business contracts. V.E.G. One prime minister noted that employee movements want to discuss collective agreements while on welfare matters, and this is, of course, only understandable. This is a clear and sacred way to discuss the need to create something called the Icelandic labour market model in some way with the Norwegian labour market model. But this never happens because we have a completely different reality in Iceland that is not there in the North countries. There, people live in stability, and there's nothing to be expected to be expected to talk about while the lays and bases are not in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u34	A respectable president. I'm glad that we have an opportunity to discuss employment markets, and I think we should actually take a special discussion about them. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Einarsson said above, there are some fundamental elements in the Icelandic community that have to be fixed so that men and people can sit to the bargaining table with dignity and some great knowledge that we can work on some small model that I believe is important that we move to, that we leave this working model that has been true for years, decades. We can especially see now that we have gained inflation and growth, that there is a need for stability in labour markets as never before, especially for the public in the country. But, of course, it's interesting, and I would have liked to hear here what the prime minister's message and the government is going to take into a dress-off conversation, e.g. On the condition of the state funds. [[The president calls.]] The government will do, for example. The requirement for collective agreements to conform to the government's material inflation goals? [[The president calls.]] It is important for us here to know about such a stand and approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u35	A respectable president. I agree that it is important that we discuss these matters here, although I have been in general that there are people on the market who are expected to negotiate, and we who are not expected to participate in it. But it seems that this environment is so special. In the North, there are generally new agreements available when negotiations expire or in 90% of cases. Here's a zero. It just doesn't happen that there's a new crew contract on the table when the collective contract expires, and, of course, there's something we have to change. I know that the government has had a set of laws on this in its own agreement, and here is referred to preparatory work for it, so I think it is very important that we discuss these matters and get to some common surface in this regard. But this is not a matter that we alone can decide here. It's about cooperation. It's about the cooperation of the workers outside, and it's very important that the labor movement comes to the table, and we all agree on the importance of having agreements that are generally valid for a long time, and we have more confidence in labour marketism.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u36	President. You're absolutely right here, we have a slight break in the labour market model. I believe that the only way to fix it is to get an anchor, a firm basis for a decision-making interview in Iceland, which is achieved only by our agreeing on the purchase and favour of the classes that are at the core of the country; in the education system and in the health system. It will not be enough for governments to send e.g. Nurses are repeated to performance, over and over. There is no basis for any solidarity in the labour market. So we need to start there, with a broad agreement on what the reward of this class is to be that everyone else can make.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u37	Madam President. Thanks for the input. Parliaments in this discussion and for the answers to the prime minister. I must admit that I was a little sad that the green - book process had burned down in this way. I realize that it is important to take this discussion in the field of national interest. The second, however, is a process where ideas and opinions are being collected and tried to create a solidarity for the future, and that is sad if we cannot work that way. I hope to the highest. Prime Minister resorted to a better conversation with the labor movement on that matter, including the following: because there's a huge bridal cycle ahead of you for the next year, maybe two years, and it needs to be prepared. This refers to the model of the dresser, the work model, in neighboring lands. It seems that people know both clocks and calendars, and they work according to a fixed protocol that is not too complicated to agree on. Of course, they need to be agreed. I know that the people in pay may not have exactly the same ideas as the employees of the workers, but that is why it is so important to get people together in the conversation and find the way through because there are many solutions, not just - which is nothing but - to negotiate for every union in the country. We've got the housing case, a huge welfare problem that's in its final state, and it's been presented in the case of President ASVI as the main subject for future dress interviews. We are, for example. with the pensions and pension age on the table that needs to be discussed and that must be handled in the general conversation between the members. We have an unfinished project, such as the important task of the Convention on Biofuel rights between the general and the public market, to balance market costs. All of this has remained low for far too long, and I want a prime minister to make these matters happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u38	Madam President. Obviously, it is not possible to come up here and talk about these matters, for as I went over them, national interests have been very effective, and it can be said that the last government and the one who is now living has been very powerful in labour markets. I can list it: here was a board of dressers, this was the establishment of a statography committee, this was a reorganized national interest council with an extended role. As noted in the case of the day, a very extensive announcement was made in connection with the lifetime document agreements. A senator who announced the operation was successful. I can mention your housing issues. A third of the new apartments built here last year and met earlier on the basis of government action, i.e. with increasing stock support for general and share loans. I can discuss the prolongation of maternity school, I can discuss three-stage tax systems, etc. All of this even happens. from a conversation between the government and the labour market members. But governments do not build a new work model. That's what workers do for the workforce and why. A senator who is the former chairman of the overall union of paymen knows very well the labor movement's dissociation in order to enter the conversation on the Green Book. We just have to say those things as they are. Since there was a tremendous inadequacy with the entire labor organization, a conversation must take place with the will of those who participate in it. I'm not forcing anybody into this. On the other hand, in the field of national interest, I have established the issues that the government wants to discuss that the labor movement wants to discuss, and I have not given up on that conversation ever. They know why. A senator very well since his time. I sincerely believe that the intense conversation of this party is part of a powerful community and part of a powerful community building is a strong labor movement, a good conversation with the labour market parties, and this important interaction that I mentioned here on the welfare and employment markets. I have not given up that conversation, although I may have taken it more seriously in a field than when it was started with green bookwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u39	A respectable president. My first question to the highest. As with example, a minister of finance is turning around to see how a minister intends to respond to the effects of rising inflation on the house's prices and whether it is possible to put a roof on that effect or to correct it. The majority of contracts are inflated, and already tens of thousands have been rented by a number of people. I hope to the highest. A minister would not try to invite these homes to state that averages show that the pay rate for these households has improved to such an extent that there is no need for action. It is not the reality that this home enjoys, and they know better. I refuse to talk about covert insurance during difficult times and not borrowing money because it's actually wrong. The loans of reliant loans will go up as the interest of others, and their payments will increase. But besides, 30 million. K. A loan adds up 7 million to each other during the loan period just for one year. It's high cost to live with this one year and this up to 7 billion. K. Based on the lack of further increase in inflation during the course of the year, however, it is going to occur. Another question involves how a minister intends to make sure that the growing numbers already raised by Iceland's Secret Bank are fully returned to consumers. Of course, the Netherlands Bank's increasing numbers paid only to consumers in part, but its increases always pay off. How are you planning to go to the top? The secretary of finance handles this mistake, or does he just feel that the banks can always be successful at the expense of consumers? A third question is, Does a minister think that he will take action for the household because of the apparent growth rates, such as setting a roof on the height of the house bar or correcting their increases, as can be considered? Since this question was submitted, interest rates have already become, and the failure of a minister to the promotions of banks, which are already over what was negotiated in the biography agreements, may give an answer to this question. Nevertheless, it would be good to have confirmation whether the banks have the most control over the land's survival and whether the government submits to the decisions of those whom no one has chosen to do so. The fourth question is, would a minister consider responding to the unprecedented circumstances created by the pandemic to ensure that no one needs to lose his home because of this. No one should have to lose their home because of the consequences of Covid-19. The least the government can do is relieve people of anxiety and promise that individuals and families will be protected from family loss instead of putting them in the hands of banks, for it is a recipe for disaster, as proved by recent examples. In fact, these questions are about who controls this society; the elected representatives or banks that no one has chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u40	A respectable president. One of the main objectives of Iceland's Federal Bank is that inflation is at least 2.5% on a twelve - month basis. A fluctuation in the economy, however, results in a fluctuating of inflation around that goal. Global inflation has resulted in massive economic recovery and difficulty in the chains of the world. This international trend, along with an increase in housing prices, has moved on inflation, which is now more than 6%. In view of the common European standard for inflation, however, it is similar in Iceland and elsewhere in Europe, and this is usually the case. In particular, the annual increase is now 3% or close to the cost of inflation. This is what the readings show us. In the light of history, it is natural that Icelanders fear inflation. However, it should be kept in mind that the economic background has been greatly improved in recent years. Although inflation has increased, it is much lower than after previous economic difficulties. All projections expect to recover inflation next year. The cost of the household has grown despite the epidemic, and predictions are expected to result in further economic growth. This is especially true of those who earn money, but the changes in the government's income tax system have made this group more prosperous. It should be noted, then, that more than a third of the households'debt is now less than one third lower, in proportion to their provisional income, than a decade ago. This is of utmost importance, examining the provisions, and comparing them with their debts and financial burdens. But if we look at this in proportion to national production... then there's no home debt that's lower in the North countries than here. At this point, the home has a choice of loans, and most of them can offer loans in simple terms between species and creditors. In this context, only about half of the outdoor housing bar is insured, which is a significant change from what used to be. The domestic situation is much different and better than that of a previous economic crisis. The government will continue to emphasize that inflation remains low and stable, but it works best with the responsible government of government, which contributes to stability, rather than to contribute to expansion and inflation. Lately, we have taken big steps in line with the proposals of a white book on the financial system. The consumers have been enabled to move with minimal cost between loans. The law on real estate loans has established a peak of 0% on loans with variable interest rates and greatly increases the competition between loans. In addition, credit card stamps have been deleted and the bank tax has been dropped largely, including to contribute to the lower budget of the households. By these measures, governments have contributed to a healthy financial system, which should ensure that the changes in the interest of the Governing Body will determine for its households, since we have never in our economic history had a more favorable quality of housing than in the past few years. The competition at the mortgage market seems to have increased substantially, and the increased efficiency in banking paid to consumers, but the interest difference in bank interest and loan rate, which is one of the criteria, has not been lower for about a decade. Although driving growth has gone up, after more than an example has been made, there is no doubt that growth will remain low in historical comparison. In this context, it would be appropriate to point out what has been reported by a financial conference, to increase the significance of unsurpassed housing loans, as a result of taking more careful steps to raise interest. There is therefore little evidence to suggest that the development of interest on the mortgages will require extensive or general counter measures on the part of the government. Finally. At the beginning of the epidemic, the banks and pension funds agreed with the government on a payment break on apartment loans. In fact, fewer measures were needed than fear, and there is no evidence that domestic financial problems have increased much since the epidemic. However, it is important to keep a close eye on the developments. That's why I'm cheering for this emphasis. A senator I believe is a role model and important. We need to keep a very close eye on this situation. However, those who are dealing with financial problems may submit an application for help from a credit agent. This agency looks for solutions to customers with as soft as possible, and correction is one of them. [[The president calls.]] The experience of this assistance is good, and the situation today is not seeing the need for alternative measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up because I think it's always important that we talk about the economics here in this room and how they affect the homes in the country. I have said this in the past that at the beginning of the Korean epidemic, I was deeply concerned. I was really worried that we were going into a situation that might be comparable to what we had after the collapse of the bank. But it has brought me joy, well, perhaps not surprise, but it has been a pleasure to see how much the government's actions have mattered and how quickly we have come up with a flash again, which makes it a cause that perhaps it's not what I'm most concerned about now. But in nature it is something that we always have to look at and worry about and maybe even now you are much more concerned about what is happening in the world and how it might affect the economic outlook here and, of course, on the economic situation of the country's homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u42	President. It's been said here that inflation has been imported. The decline was very soon when it was noted that the index price has largely increased because of the housing team. The price for consumption has increased by 9% since the start of the epidemic, but by about 10◯12%, if we examine the food, transport, and housing subsidiary subsidiaries so that those who spend all their incomes in these teams will have a much higher level of inflation than most people with higher resources. I feel a little uncomfortable when it comes to the fact that we have a very low debt in comparison with other countries, since we have experienced an enormous collection of property because simply houses have become more valuable. But I'd like to get a little clearer to see if we're talking about net or gross debt or how it is, because it matters. As this developed before a collapse, it was so that when the swelling exploded, the debt was piled up over too high an apartment price on those who took all too high a loan of housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u43	Madam President. Nice talk with the senator here before I do. What are we talking about? We know that in the past ten years, decade, growth has probably never been lower in Iceland, and perhaps it is a question of how to handle the situation; should we make it specific for a particular group or systemically for all the injuries? As we have seen in this discussion, the acquired population of Icelanders in housing has never been stronger, and the credit rate to the property stock with the lowest in the country for decades has never been so good if the share has ever been as good. So, then, doesn't it take a little more specific to talk about what needs to be done? Then we can take up a discussion on the course of Reykjavíkurburg, with a lack of property and other community members in the capital area and in many parts of the country, whether it is right, and how we build up the building sector to carry out the campaign. I think this is an interesting subject, and we need to consider a certain part of the matter more clearly in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u44	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the answers and for others who have participated in the discussion. I am one of those who spent many years in trouble, just until 2019, because of the consequences of the crash, apart from having looked into the eyes of a lot of people who suffered the loss of their homes after a crash. I'd like to cover the well before anyone falls into it. It is too late to intervene when someone is referred to a credit agent, the only solution available after a collapse. I'm just going to say here that there's a solution that doesn't work. It doesn't work at all. There people went to some sort of payment stop, and then they were stuck with the whole package when they finally received a rejection from the agent of a credit agent with interest, interest rates, tractors, and very often in a worse position than they once were. I have sometimes suggested that the role of a credit agent was to cook people for the banks and tell them what they could not do. It could only eat oatmeal every day of the week, except for maybe pulses on Sundays. That's what the credit agent did. It wasn't a good plan, and I want by all means to prevent such a situation from coming up again. What's all this? Not everyone can switch to disloyal loans, even if they would like to. There are a lot of people who can't. They don't get paid for it the way the situation is. They can't, and we've recommended people here to do so. It was refused. Okay, then we come to this global impact and the housing team. Why is growth being increased when much of the inflation is introduced? There's one thing. And another is, why is the mortgage not removed from the index? That, on its own, would save a tremendous amount of money. We're talking about people who have serious problems and even though they say rent went up by 3%, and there are numbers of them, it's fact that tens of percent have been raised in many cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u45	A respectable president. Perhaps the point here is that when we look at the status of our homes in a complete way, it's strong. It is strong because the income has grown and the inflation of the past has been low. We've made improvements in housing markets and only financial activity in Iceland that lead to consumers having a much better choice. This is significant because when we face the flaws or disadvantages resulting from in inflation, the status of the households is everything. So the question was, Was the scene I was referring to earlier or was it the clean position of the homes? I was simply comparing debt with domestic arrangements, which, in the end, may be the most important thing, the proportion of provisions taken into the service of mortgages. It's just a pretty strong situation, and it's also strong against measurement measures, such as land production. Of course, I agree with those who say that there are few people who wonder what they themselves owe as a proportion of land production. I'm sure it's very rare. However, the main point is that, as we do today, we do not see clear evidence of increased divorce in the financial system. And an increase in housing prices and inflation, more interest than we've had in the last two, three years, may give the main reason to consider that the first apartment buyers, those who have yet to enter the housing market. It's the people you might be thinking about, and it seems to be a major market failure on the forward side.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u46	President. A meeting for research on a new airport in Whalesun was signed on November 29, 2019. This contract explains the various studies that have to be done before the end of 2024, but in the first two years of the project, it is to complete a series of tests to evaluate further extensions. The two years have passed, and it is reasonable to ask about the continuation of the project. Questions presented in the query are: 1st How do we plan and implement a new airport as agreed by the state and the city of Reykjavík from 2018? Have Studies been financed? 100 million were expected from each contract. When are the results due? 2. What sort of research would be considered negative and make an airport at Whaleshaft undesirable? Were these criteria set before the study of flight conditions began? 3. If a decision were made on the construction of a new airport, how long would that take? We've heard a lot of big years, and compared to airport projects in other countries, it's a little longer than it's heard. Based on the fact that the first phase of the study should be completed, has a minister had a presentation of primary findings and indicated something about the continuation of the project? In view of the economic primitiveity of the Rackham Committee, there are 100 to 1,100,150 billion dollars. Social gains of today's price from building an airport in Washingaur. It will now be less for the people of the land. It would be even greater if the hospital had been built, not on Ring Road, but in a more accessible location for both capitals and inhabitants of the country, as an example. It is estimated that the overall time of travel for those who are going to have a medical flight would be increased by approximately ten minutes, which would be out if the hospital had been built in a more accessible location. But that may be all right, for it is not likely that it will just have to be built in a new hospital when this project in the Washuse project ends compared with the number of years you have heard about building this airport. After all, these extra ten minutes are expected to be nonexistent, for there are also more ways to shorten such a time than necessarily there is. However, the proportion of the total patient travel time involved is only a few percent, 2◯4%. The obvious question, then, must be that if economic expectations are so positive, about 2◯3 billion a year if you take it down a year, why has this project been so delayed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for taking up this big deal, so we have a chance to discuss it here. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator noted that a few years ago, in the reports of approved parties, the benefits of a very large degree of mass were up to 150 billion. I thought the matter was then, that would be practical, or a great benefit for national preparation, that we would have to examine all things thoroughly and be able to answer them. I haven't had the final reports on all of this, but it has been found that these benefits are not available, since they were comparing apples and oranges, as often happens. When it comes to comparing real things, the benefits are not as great. I'd like to say, too, that the tests as a whole, like what you're doing. A senator was referring to being divided in two large ways, in fact, doing quite well. Maybe I'll come in on the time line at the end. You know, about a question or two. Since the study has been financed by a member of the council, the state, and the city of Reykjavík, the figures are set aside for research, and they have been within the limits that we have agreed on. The tests are still ongoing, and they are of many ways. Veggaests are the weather measurements that began at the beginning of 2021. It's supposed to pass through to the end of this year, i.e. it'll be two whole years. However, the assessment of a natural problem is intended to be completed last year, but it will be working this year by the weather lab and will then be processed from research and the results are estimated to be at the latest in the mid-1923 period. Whether the field will be completed because basic research is not completed and it would not be wise to start a course before such tests are completed. Of course, such decisions have not been made. For study results, whether or not the criteria previously used to determine the outcome were positive or negative, the short answer is: Yes, the criteria are set in advance, they are known, for the synthesis index. The agreement emphasizes the estimate of the airport's innovation level compared to the existing airport airport in the southwest corner, and the criteria are that the airport at Haksarun will be as good or better than Reykjavík's airport. This is shown in the agreement, and there are support factors behind it. The main concern at the beginning of the studies was insurrection in the air or a plane crash and has been stressed to evaluate it. Then, as everyone knows, a volcanic eruption in Mount Flaredal began, which has increased the impact of natural tears during the discussion. A final question may be: If all of this were to be positive and would be considered practical and reasonable, according to the criteria and means of making use, how long would it take? Based on experience with the preparation of larger projects, organizational adjustments can be expected to take about two years to a minimum. Environmental assessment of this project has been considered to be between five and eight years, a two - year design, and a two - year process of exporting from six to eight years. Thus, the combined period may be 15◯20 years. This is comparable with the experience from abroad with similar projects. Of course, some of these projects can be done at the same time. But the big picture is this: 15 years, maybe 12 or 13 years, up to 20 years, i.e. If we're looking at this today, we're looking at it in 2035 or 2040. The study time line is that they have been mainly delayed by this natural year because of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes that have been occurring, so the Weather Service has simply not relied on to complete this task, but both weather research and flying research have been in full swing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u48	Madam President. This is a big, important matter, and it is important to keep up with the discussion about it. The reason for talking about the Washingoff Airport back then was the possibility that it could be extended to a fully populated international airport. It is the basic premise, that it remains in your hands, that you build a national airport, and then can expand it into an international airport. This is the prerequisite for a discussion of the Swazi Land of the day. This is because it could not be extended to an international airport. That's why he fell out. But as a national airport, it is the possibility that in itself it has never been considered because it was rejected by a certain process in all of this. A little time line and some context must be kept. It's as good or as good as Watermrin's - it's what we know as we're going to get the results. These 15-520 years, like the highest. A minister enters, is widely known throughout the Western world in such a process, so that one minute in this matter is short.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u49	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. I cut by the highest. A minister mentioned the number 150 billion in the context of building airports in Washingeun. I think that number may increase substantially, at least to 200 billion. I have not served as a spokesman over the head to move Reykjavíkur Airport, but if it were necessary, I would feel that the international flight should take us south to Chefavík, and we should build up the facilities for it. I think it's a lot more practical and more reasonable. It is our international airport and all the facilities needed. I specifically highlight what was presented in the case of the Minister that there is no assessment of nature, which has naturally changed a lot in one year, that is just a year since the eruption began. In factEinarsson Páll, our esteemed geological scientist, has mentioned that the time has come for the Smokebones to be expected to be marked by the conversion of the next decade if not for the next hundred years, so I think, as we now have this assessment report on nature, that there will be a different basis. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u50	A respectable president. Yes, it is vital that major research be done when big investments are made. It referred to the weather and the problem of nature. But then there are the natural environmental evaluations and organizational issues in which we are talking about 50 years. It's been 20 years to put one feed line there. But I'd like to turn it around and say that I've had a lot different since the start of this committee. We now have an international airport in Keflavík. There, the state has organized a structure in its area, the Kadeco area, to Ásbek, of 40,000 people built. In that case, we may not have to have the entire island of Watermelons, but we can just build on the land of the State on Ásbourg, where the largest workplaces in the country are, the Icelia, the Blue looon, and the nearby. I think we should start looking at these national and international matters on the basis of reality today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u51	Madam President. Thank you for this discussion in this context. V.E.G. A minister came in earlier that we were talking about 15-520 years before the Hatsuun airport was to be used. I myself am now a great doubter of any sense at all in continuing these studies, but let it lie in the middle of things. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of how he envisions conditions in the Watermelon, Reykjavík Airfield, for this time. The research of the Dutch Space Agency on the mismanagement of the field is now available based on the selection area called, and there has been a great amount of safety in building in the Surgeon, which could have a major impact on the ability of the airport in the Hydromycin within the next few years. We look at a period of 15 to20 years in this stadium, possibly designed to replace the water marshes. Who can see the highest. A minister realizes that if the state of the interior flight becomes so high that the watermelon airport is no longer operating because it is so tight that it is under control? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u52	President. As big as this is, it's still part of a much bigger problem. In fact, there is a lack of overall vision in the development of both land and air transport in the coming decades for example. Healthcare. It is unacceptable to me that there is a bottleneck in Reykjavík for the safety of the Land hospital, that all of us need to move in here on specific security measures. Of course, there should be more widespread risks because we live in a very extreme climate, as we have seen in February. I call it, because we've established an internal agency, and it's supposed to get everything together and make everything more efficient, that we get a plan on how this will work, not just to 5 or 15 years of age, as in a transport program, but, in view of a long - term financial report published by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in terms of mass development, on how to develop national policies throughout the country. Where will international airports be located all over the country? Where will medical emergency services be running around the country considering their connections? This case is one part of the southwest corner. It is extremely important that there is a clear policy regarding where you are going. No longer is there an airfield in The Watermies. It's not available that the hospital is on Ring Road, it's just not. The tribulations are too great, we've spent a long time in the past. We have known this since the beginning of this century, and yet it was not followed that in the coming years or decades, we need to draw up the overall picture of this in order to accomplish something called based policy in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u53	Madam President. I want to thank you, too. Congress members for dealing objectively with this discussion. It is true that one senator noted that these 150 billion were benefits at the international airport, and that number had been dropped here a few years ago. That's why I started this job at the beginning of the last terms, and I didn't want to be the Minister who didn't consider whether we had a chance to get 150 billion benefits, society. However, the cost of building is much higher, as is the case with the second. A senator came in here. It is much greater, what has been examined. It is nothing like a double build in Keflavík. It is true that the organization can be examined, I will only enter it below. For the inquiry on the conditions in the Watermelon, it is quite clear that in this agreement Reykjavíkurburg should maintain the same management security as at the current airport. If this is disturbed, it must simply be stopped, they must wait. Unless there are any counter measures, if that were the case. It just needs to be answered, and it's in progress and it's gonna be clear. I agree with the person who started the discussion; the big picture is, of course, looking at it in a 30 to50 year plan on all these factors, and that's how we've been working it, that's how we've been doing it, and that's how we've been preparing for transportation and flying, and that big picture, like the Sunway, to see if the Sunway will be there until the next 50 or 70 years. So if I may, Madam President, I'm ready for this discussion, and I've been ready for it for a long time. It has to do with a discussion on population development here in this area and the development of the rural government level and the main transport routes. But we're discussing this, both in transport planning and air travel, and that's the thought behind that policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u54	A respectable president. More than two years ago, rural societies signed the capital area and the state called a transport contract. The covenant contains wonderful promises of what would be the most extensive means of history to speed things up in the capital area. There the parties commit themselves to speed up specific projects in Reykjavík and to the highest level of my inquiry. Minister of wood facing them. The questions are clear and simple, and I hope to receive clear and simple answers. There's no need for complications and lengths when I'm just asking for a position on projects: Has our traffic lights been improved and our brilliant traffic signals have been activated, an action to take action immediately? What about the highways and the Roads at the Brenchesholt Road to finish in 2021? What is the situation at the front corners of the road that were put in place because of the high rates of accidents? What's the situation in the building of the Rockland? It is on the list of quickness and interesting answers to that question, especially in view of the real estate market in Reykjavík. Has the bus transport system been added since the contract was signed? The purpose of the covenant is to increase safety, improve transportation, reduce delays, and reduce pollution, and it is the State that finances it in the most large part. It's the government that pays for it. I submitted this request to the highest level. Minister of Congress, especially to encourage him to have a powerful and effective monitoring of the agreement by the city of Reykjavík. We who live in Reykjavík do not miss the fact that these projects have either not yet ended or gone very soon, despite the fact that they were due to be completed in the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this multiple inquiry. I'm gonna try to get through it in those five minutes. I determined, however, that after the senator spoke of these projects as being, or was supposed to be, to testify, according to the facts, both of them are and become the greatest projects ever performed here in the southwest corner. Regarding the traffic lights, it can be said that in 2007 the cleverness of traffic lights has actually begun, and today more than half of the traffic lights in the capital area are now involved in the process of connecting all traffic lights. In 2020, at the beginning of the transport treaty, an analysis of the current traffic lights system and its operating systems was conducted, as well as the benefits and defects of different traffic light systems, including the same. for criticism taken up during the council. The result of this analysis was that the system that has been introduced in recent years is good, as is its technology. It was suggested that the course of action be continued and emphasised on making better use of existing systems. It should also be emphasised on developing policy with clear targets, defined standards and processes to measure success, assess the need for human resources, promote cooperation with policy makers, i.e. It's the road and the community. Thereafter, a team of colleagues of Vega, Reykjavíkurburg, and SSH for traffic lights and controls was assigned to implement a strategy to improve the effectiveness of traffic light management in the capital area. The first work under the Action Programme is now in progress, setting goals, policies, and reforms, as well as occasional conventions. The purpose of the work is in the spirit of the covenant, i.e. To promote transportation and increased safety in the road, I received a fine introduction to this project by Christmas. It seems to be in a good way. Regarding the transition between the Rhine Way and the Basis road, it is said that the Vega and Reykjavíkurburg are working toward changing the extraction of these squares to turn the current road into a roadside with a left-hand corner of the Smokejanes Way into the Busway on the bridge. However, a left turn from Bhust Road cannot be taken on a Smokejanes track that can only be done outside the busy hours of today. Thus, after changes, there is no traffic light at this location on the Rhine Way. Work on the prototype is well along the way, but part of the work involves developing a nice city line on the Smokeins Way from Snow to Vogaville. The process is then carried out in the evaluation of the environmental impact of the sea by preparing a proposal for an assessment plan. Pre- and project design, along with environmental assessment, is expected to be completed in the next year, followed by the implementation of the invitation, i.e. next year. Regarding Eaglenes Road and Breedholt Road, the model for their implementation began in mid - 2021, and ended in November last. The design of the project is now being done and is expected to end in the following days, weeks. Kópavogur and Reykjavíkurburg have a shared sharing structure for Eaglenes Road in a presentation. The multiorganization process is expected to be completed in spring, followed by the implementation of the invitation and is expected to begin in the middle of this year. With the construction of the Netherlands, if it has begun, and if it is, what is the situation in it, it is in the manner of the transport agreement that the Netherlands puts it to better transport. which is then designed to develop the country in cooperation with the city of Reykjavík and to use it to finance part - time work of the covenant. In January 2021, better transportation took place, asking the company to cooperate with Reykjavíkurburg for development and organization of the country. The city appointed a task force on the construction of the country on May 31 last May and has better transportation since that time to prepare the development and organization of Köldnaland in cooperation with Reykjavík, and as far as I know, I was at a meeting this morning, it's going well. The country's basic research, data collection and analysis are now being carried out, and then it is planned to process a framework for the region and divide the first buildup of cells. The building process itself may begin. I'm afraid to claim the time line in this part. I'm going to have to access Bus' transport system in my closing words, but I'd like to know in the beginning that the transport situation is about building wood instead of the community transport operation. [[The president calls.]] Nevertheless, I have information about how it has developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u56	A respectable president. Thank you for your time. When dealing with the capital contract, it is most important that organization and financing have to talk to each other and that they both have to act out. Traffic control was not without reason placed in the first place, since it could be achieved by 30% success in reducing delays, which should be the cheapest solution to achieve the objectives of the treaty to be climate compatible, to slow down and increase traffic flow across all transport and including public transportation. I just have to say, it's very disappointing if I'm going to continue building on an old light control system, which is glamorized because all our neighbors are renewing their photodynamic outputs every four years. It takes 3 billion to renew this here, which is the cheapest and most profitable project possible, so let's not build on an old system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u57	Madam President. I'd like to thank a captain. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, for starting this discussion. I'd like to thank you very much. Ministers very much for clear reviews and clear answers. I thought the tone of questions was common. Up to the point of a negative attitude, as a member of the Parliament considered the transport and transportation contract to be a private city in Reykjavík. Of course, the purpose is to fulfill the covenant. Of course, there is a need to be at peace with better transportation, with road transport, and rural areas all in the capital area. But it caught me wondering what the minister's answers were about the cleverness of technology. We know that the situation on the changing of the Rhine Way and Borrogative Road is that they're waiting for proposals from the Road and the construction of Eaglenes Road that the Breiðholt Road is on the market. All of them as easily as possible. A senator is asking, and the case is also very close to me as a member of the city of Reykjavík, now in my best interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u58	President. I was at a meeting of delegates in the capital area last week, last week. In the case of sex, it was noted that this point with traffic lights was somewhat overrated, and a new review of it did not produce as much traffic improvements as had been thought to be, and the priority there might have been slightly different. Still, it was complained that the money within the contract may have been relatively small, spread over too many years, and perhaps some adjustments were needed. Other than that, it seems to be a simple project, perhaps not according to a plan, but at least not only from the city of Reykjavík but also from the government, which is positive. My concern, however, is about half the budget, 60 billion, that are to be prevented by government charges. [[The president calls.]] The matter is not visible at the council yet, and I worry if it will usually pass through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and a advocate of this fine discussion and of vital importance. It doesn't really start out well, I think, the partnership based on the transport contract. If we look at the founding projects, the two difficult and complex streets in which the plan was to work by the mismatch road, then in both cases there have been a loss of plans for both Bourgway and Rhine Way and Eaglenes Road and Breinholts. I don't think it's a good start for all of this. Then there is the question: Where does traffic go if you are going to take a major role in all of this, the Grand Way? It does not seem, in any way, toss out the views of the best experts involved in the course of traffic, for of course, it does not disappear like dew before the sun. A minute is a short period in this conversation, but it would be interesting to know if it's the highest level. A minister has better information on which road to drive while working on a heavy track.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to say thank you for what. A senator and a chief. Minister, I think it's important that we discuss the affairs of the capital area. All too often, we have observed total resources when it comes to construction in the capital area for decades. That is why I rejoiced greatly at the capital contract. At last, we would finally see real funds being made in the capital area, and that's important. But I'm going to join in with some disappointments about the light control business. I just sat there for a meeting like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson of Vega, and I have to admit that I was surprised to see that we were still in the first steps of light control. That is not in harmony with the information I received when we were discussing this matter. I think it's important that as members of the Parliament get better information about the real status of that case and why it is so important that the improvement of light control is not as much as expected at the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u61	Madam President. Perhaps the truth of the matter is that light controls in the capital area are not necessarily able to provide much more for a car tour in the capital area because they have already been designed with the needs of the private car, not the needs of pedestrians, bikers, or residents who should be designed. This is something that was not discussed enough when the transport problem was made, which is reflected in, for example, the process. No climate assessment of the agreement was done, as was the custom of transportation. But I just want to direct it to the minister to look at further ways to put people in first place in the urban area rather than in the car so that people can be safe between places, not to wait long at the corners of the road because the green wave carries cars with a corresponding increase in traffic speed and less security for all driving participants.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u62	Madam President. When we discussed the transport contract in our day, this traffic light control was a significant part of that. Therefore, it is important to inform the council, e.g. ... atwhat. Environmental and Transport Committee, if anything has changed in nature about the traffic light management. And then I'll stress it on the Sunway, which was part of that agreement, i.e. that it would come in, that it has been discovered since these last few weeks on the interest of making money that this country can hardly be found more profitable than its swimming track. And then just at the end of the organizational matters. As a young man who grew up in the West Side of Reykjavík, I remember that the old Ringtrack was full of mornings out into the Nes and at night. It hasn't changed in 40 years. This must be key to bringing the work east of the city closer to the city's city center. If so, we may be able to get some reasonable use for the next decades to find a solution to the situation. It would be to rebuild areas east of the city to balance traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u63	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers, as well as members of Congress who have participated here. It's a principle in negotiations to keep contracts, and it seems to me that answers are of the highest degree. Minister that Reykjavíkurburg has not done so when it comes to the transport contract. I knew that, as before, a resident in Reykjavík. I'll figure it out, like. Just because traffic lights have not been improved. You see, I wasn't asking about 2007,52019; I was asking about traffic lights, after the signing of the treaty. I must declare a little disillusionment with a very long answer. Minister, apart from the last words. The case is in place. In fact, the process is out - of - date and out - of - date. You can't convince me that this is a process that should take years, but we, who have been waiting for a Sunday for 30 years, are all used in Reykjavík. When it came to the corners of the street, I heard the same thing coming to me. History, process, process. These projects were to be completed in 2021. Bus hasn't gotten better yet. In fact, the night bus has already ceased. It's not starting to organize or build a Köldnaland that's just in my backyard, it's slow to watch. It sounds like the Dizziness Course of the past 30 years. A respectable president. If a contract disqualifications a contract, it is simply possible to resort to the decision of the committee. It's, for example. power can be demanded and can even be torn up. In view of the situation, then, the State must consider using such measures. A greater portion of Reykjavíkurburg simply cannot choose from the terms of the covenant to do what is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u64	A respectable president. I wanted to complete the previous questions about the Street tour system and to reiterate that the transport policy is about building, not operating. Nevertheless, of course, Covid-19, which struck everything and everyone, was accompanied by significant limitations in public and public transport. Of course, the number of passengers in a bus with sustained contractions of income was followed by a collapse. Nevertheless, the government, in particular, strengthened public transportation here in the capital area, especially about 120 million last year because of the epidemic's impact, which it did in other public transports in the country. As far as I'm concerned, the street has been improving some ways. Driving started at 22 o'clock in Urnarholti, Garden City 2020, with an increase in frequency in the fall of 2021. The same applies to driving on a new ordering route in Gufunesi as well as in the industrial district of Hellnauun, which is on the 26th day of February. What I wanted to come here is that I believe that the traffic lights will be very effective. I haven't heard they've been overrated. It may well have been that some members of the council in this hall thought that they would return even more. I have to tell you exactly what I hear here are a lot of experts who think that even they know what the system is designed to do. I don't think I have that knowledge. I've had many meetings about what's being done. I trust these people. We both got foreign experts to check the Siemen system, which is from Siemens, who said it was okay. It just needs to be fixed and updated, and it'll be very good. That process is going on. That work's going on. Has she gone any slower than she was? Yeah, I think so. She could've walked faster. Would the structure of the founding track and the city line project have been allowed to go faster than the first few? Yes, she could have. But there are just so many other things that take time in this process. Is there a masquerade of roads, if they are not if both bridges and the ideals have been designed to function as good transportation and safe at some corner of the road? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna stand here and judge it. I'm going to keep it up here at the end that we're on a pretty good way with the transportation contract, and it's in the strong hands of the better transportation I've trusted to develop the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u65	A respectable president. A mold council is geographically the largest rural society in the country, with four settlements and extensive rural areas. A health trip over Axi was presented as one of the main criteria for the unity of the Crimson Shapps in the River Valley region, Fleas Fjords, and City Flavours. Strategic transport and efficient public transportation are the basis for successful management of the rural community. Ox, or Axar Road, known as the mountain road between the Valley of Savour and the Berafjord, leads the shortest way between the River Valley and the Deepavogs. It takes about an hour for the Crimson Bogians to reach Eglish by going to Axi, but if this 532 m high mountain road is shut and the pine must be driven or through the Breund Valley lies an increase in travel time by less than an hour, even more if the boat is poor. My first request to the highest. The minister of the wood is simple: What is the situation in the construction of our feet across Axi? The Eastern Union has for years concluded that Axar Road will be built as a whole to ensure easy transport within the Global Convention throughout the year, as well as shortening transport routes between the East and the capital area. It is this interconnection force of rural society that is vitally important and realizes that the overall interests of the development of the project take place as soon as possible. Axar Road has long been on the program, and the promise has been beautiful, but the fact is that a decade has passed without progress, and according to the introduction of the Road program in early February, there will be at least one year before the implementation and there is no room for an arrangement to be paid. Then comes my second request: Will Ministers wisely promote further transport in the country than over Oxi was performed in cooperation with private citizens, with the goal of hurrying projects? If so, who? Now there is a law on the cooperation of transport projects that includes six cooperation projects, and that certainly includes Axes Road, which is a cause for great joy. In that context, I also wondered, " Can the law be revised with the aim of increasing the number of projects involved with private workers to speed up more projects in the country? ' Finally, I would like to emphasize the importance of national projects that will improve people's quality of life and expand their jobs and services, as stated in the Government Treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this case here. It is true that when it comes to transport, transportation, and, as normal, all rural society are growing considerably, as it was then in the east, it is one of the conditions at least applied to the state. We became aware of this call, and we were able to answer it by going on these cooperation projects, PPP, because if we were carrying Öxi, we would have weighed the actual height he is, compared with other projects, he would not have been on the program in the coming years and decades, even though he had accessed some transport program, a list of all members of Congress, some years ago. I'm sorry, there were a lot of assignments that did not return to the program. So this is the reality, and this is what I've been trying to make it clear, that to get this project somewhere else so it could be done faster than then, they'd have to do this cooperative thing. The greatest benefit that comes from making a decision to set such a project is that they are rushed in this way. This has been done, and a meeting for this project has been held at the beginning of this month, February 4. The meeting is part of the process of tender exporting which in this environment of PPP projects takes so long. As with the fact that a meeting has been held because of a new bridge over Elfism, which will also take exactly this time, and the final invitation will be completed in one year. That was the first assignment for a press conference more than one year ago, and the invitation was launched one year later and is now being completed. It's simply part of a government and private cooperation project, a so-called PPP project, and that's how it is. The invitation is a competitive offer in accordance with official shopping laws, and it will take this time, approximately 1 year. So it is assumed that there will be written agreements for implementation at the beginning of the next year if everything goes well and the construction time could be three years. It is asked whether a minister intends to use further transport in the country with the same approach. Then a few years ago, before the council, a bill was passed. There are six projects that were accepted to be cooperated with such a private member, on the basis of a work together. However, in addition to this, the Axis is being spoken of a round trip around the Hornland River, which has come to the longest of these projects and has been published, a round road northeastern Selephoss and a bridge on Elfy; a press conference was held today on February 18 or a half months later than Öxi, a round road through the Morry Valley, the lowland road, and a tunnel through a mountain of testing that is under environmental assessment. Then, in recent years, a double Hölfhjörður, which may not have been on the program, and on the other hand, the channel that has been active in recent years, we realize that this process, which, in fact, becomes even more time - consuming because of the size of the project, means that over the next four, five years, we will be in an environmental assessment, design, and preparation of an invitation, and then will be carried out, and will not be completed until perhaps around 2029 30-22031. So this is what they are. In addition, and I'm available for this, to attack more national interest in transport initiatives on the basis of a wide variety of funding and cooperation with private agents, as stated in the Government Treaty of the Government. Of course I will. But I'll admit and say here that in this process so far, I've been disappointed in the way the financing has shown little interest, too little, and too little ambition in this process because it's important that everyone cooperates. I mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In some way, humans are not supposed to be throwing up all kinds of obstacles, the thresholds for their fun, which I feel even some individual people have been doing. I'd like to use this opportunity to motivate people, for it's a good way to speed up our Öx as we're doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u67	A respectable president. Thank you for your fine discussion, and thank you for the answers. Minister. He may have stolen my question in the rest, but I'm still going to reiterate it: Are the investors willing to distribute the risks with the State on this project? And what is needed in order to increase their will and so on? As he pointed out, there are no doubt fewer people who cooperate with such projects than with the State itself. It is absolutely essential that investors who have called for investment in the infrastructure are ready to do so. That's what I'm going to say. I'd also like to ask: If we can divide this into a road connected with our community and similar roads related directly to travel services or other such, which may be much later on a transport program if they're over there, would it be possible to take a less expensive road to this funding model?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u68	Madam President. This discussion may refer to the Cradle Marche that is said to have been successful, but there is no question of how it went. Public review indicated, e.g. that the project would not have been less expensive than if the government had held at them and the cost of Spalar's collected roads, as long as that company worked, ran at a billion users, just the management of Spalar, and also paid 100 billion. K. interest in the Whalewalk model. And then we have a natural model that may be closer to you, which is the Bugle Marche, which could be said to be a bit more dangerous than the other, as it turns out, that this PPP financing that is in progress there is not going to work out. So I wondered, " Is it not better for me to take transportation through the transport plan and the hands of the public so that it is the priorities for the public and the community, not whether they fit in some particular payment model? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u69	Madam President. Oxi is an exciting project, shortens the way about 70 miles [11 km], and has a powerful impact on the area when it is fully applied. We have many of these projects, and I agree with the highest level. Ministers that it is necessary to consider this in many areas, they feel that there is a wide range of possibilities on their own. V.E.G. A minister also entered this point regarding the pension fund, and perhaps disappointed, and the deposit fund that the pension fund was introducing a few years ago, and you understood that it was being offered for dancing, and then now offered by the Hornafjörður that is, to remind me, 21% of a budget or a projection cost. So I'm asking the highest. A minister directly to it: Has he had a conversation with the pension fund after that an invitation to do this work and financing?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. head of the wood for the answer and any other reason. Councilmen who spoke up. Yes, I'm certainly far from being the first statesman to fight for that fine road, and yes, it is true that an invitation may take that time, but the people of the East have waited and waited. I'd like to, in that relationship, encourage the highest. A minister who uses his power to eliminate the wait, to act vigorously, and to carry out the promises at his appointed time. The structure of Axes also rhymes well with a section of the Treaty, which says, by permission of the president: We will continue building and maintaining the transport system to improve the safety of people on the roads, shortening travel time, and reducing emissions in accordance with climate targets. In addition, we know that tourists usually choose the shortest route, so it is important that it be as safe as possible. Now, I would like to include only another aspect of community service, but there is a winter service that now plays a significant role in the compatibility of rural services, which have worked hard to achieve a favorablel with this synergistic effect. Hence, it is natural and urgent that winter services will be reviewed from the foundation and the rule on it in the light of these components and that more effort will be made to render good service for interconnected links to the core of the service and within the same sector. Of course, school route between communities should be taken into account, but as we know it is legal that children should be attending school for five days a week, and winter service has just not been doing this well enough. So there's a call for this too, and I wanted to get it to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u71	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion too. In fact, with new and more projects and even smaller ones, it becomes only difficult because this process is complex. It'll take a long time. If the projects are too small, then there seems to be insufficient interest in parties, so I worry that it will not be easy to say yes to a good question. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. So that's why. I'd like to ask who, too. paritaprevir Andrés Inga Jónsson: So a senator would have arrived if we had taken them through a transport program in the last 20 years with one economic collapse and one global epidemic? Believe it or not. A senator? It's not a good career model. I can agree with that. But the whale tunnel is very good. For asking why. Friðbertsson I have not had a conversation after an invitation, but in recent years very many people have hung on the door and encouraged these acts. I have to say, just as it is, it's disappointing not to see the interest of these people going through the projects that are over. Then I'd like to say what. The apocalyptic, what. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, I agree absolutely with it. A senator says that we need to get more funding in quick structure. We need a lot more money in maintenance of the road system we're building up and also in winter service. I can say what. A senator of all the money the council will agree to put on transportation, I will make a success of it. There's plenty of demand and plenty of work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u72	Madam President. Perhaps it would be better to speak in general about the affairs of the sea, especially in view of the fact that people are beginning to realize more and better that the climate crisis and sea issues are just two sides of the same coin. Here we are only about the marine mammals, which I think are still related to the overall vision from Iceland more than in many parts, because it can be held as a matter of government hunting policies, that the cross-refundant use of the marine mammals government through a government has delayed the policies that otherwise would have taken place, the shape of the whole policy that combines climate change, acidification and pollution, as well as the protection of biological diversity in the rhythm of sustainable biofueling of marine resources, as it is called, if I remember. But here we are specifically discussing the sea mammals. It is also a little thought - provoking about how little we know about them. The effect of whales e.g. the effects of noise and shipping below the sea, little known, and the effects of whales on the entire environment are little known on Iceland's farms. However, there is many evidence to suggest that whales play a key role in distributing nutrients through the sea, that carbons are stored below the sea, and even the destruction of whales could be compared to massive deforestation in the rainforests of Amazon, so the positive effects of whales on climate. I figure that is probably the only official study ever conducted, such a long-term study by public institutions, a study of marine mammals, always on the basis of innovations, but not to understand nature better. I've asked you two questions. In fact, the morning newspaper's readers received a foretaste of the answer to one of those who turns to see whether a minister intends to extend access to long - hoped - for fish when the current Regulation expires. I just want to explain the position of a minister and whether a single state within the government is in their case. And then, because the last environmental minister did not receive political support to provide a full bill for the global reexamination of wild beasts, whether the Food Minister will promote the migration of sea mammals into wild animals and in its proper place with other mammals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As indicated in his case, there were two questions. I would so like to have further and more detailed discussions about the affairs of the ocean in general and especially the environmental issues there. Regarding the first, long - term, long - tailed source question: When the season of hunting ends, according to what is now in force, such as the winter. A senator refers to it, then it has been mentioned in an article I wrote that I believe we need to look to see if it can be reasoned economicly to keep that warrant open. In itself, so that you are only looking at the facts, it is undeniably true that this fishing has not had much economic significance in recent years. During the past three years, no big whales have been caught but one wrinkle in 2021, indicating little to suggest that economic gain is from pursuing these fishing since those enterprises which have permission have been able to catch a whale in recent years, have not done so. If I as Minister allows me to see the companies who have permission to practice these fishing practices, they'll act like companies in general, i.e. make decisions on a market foundation, they have spoken quite clearly, just by not catching any whales during the past three summers. Clearly, then, they do not consider themselves marketable for hunting. I will have an assessment of the potential national and social effects of this to allow continued whaling in the year below, but that assessment will take place this year. I do this only on the basis of current law, and it has not been discussed specifically in the government, but it is part of what I should look upon when I am going to the law that the Council has agreed on in this regard. Hv. A senator then asks for an overall review of the laws of protection, peace, and fishing on wild birds and wild mammals, sometimes known as wild law. They, like, whisk. A senator knows, falls under the topic of Environment, Energy and Climate Ministers. A report by a so - called wild animal committee is likely to refer to a report by the Commission on the legal status of this case group working in 2013 and produced a report prepared for those currently employed by the Environment and Resource Minister, which was published in April 2013. I agree with that. A senator says that I am now quite long gone after this law is updated. Since the publication of this report, major developments in marine mammals have been under way. In 2017, the Department of Professional Road and Development set the Regulation on the prohibition against whale fishing in certain areas, the 2019 Regulation on the prohibition against seals and regulations of 2021 on the well - being of marine mammals in fish fishing and fish farming in the sea. It is also supplemented with Regulation 2019 where the total resources of certain species, etc. are recommended. There's gonna be a second. It is likely not surprising that the one listed here believes that the affairs of marine mammals should generally be under protection, peace, and fishing laws on wild birds and wild mammals. However, it is clear that, according to current law, marine mammals, whales, and seals fall under law under the Food Ministry, i.e. a law about whaling in the whale, and a law about salmon and trout fishing in the matter of seals. They also extend animal welfare laws to marine mammals. The work that will take place during the terms of sea fishing challenges and opportunities, in fact, was presented to the Ministry's Web and to the government's consultation today, aims to provide prime information on the topic of fishing management. There will be a chance to discuss these matters in general, but my viewpoint on the matter is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u74	Madam President. It is good to know that the current minister of the seafaring business has a different opinion than that of the last official. I asked, for two legislatures, that I think the two Ministers, which are drawn across either side of the sea mammals, are at home in the matter. Of course, a member of the Environment Minister would like to, like all people who have studied a clear report by the NTSB, to agree, to bring the marine mammals under the whole of modern laws of wild animals in Iceland, but the then marine rights minister had no reason to do so. Now I hope it's looking for a better start. I'd like to reflect on it, and now I'm redirecting to the article as the highest. A minister published in the Morning Journal on these matters, following the inquiry, whether the Ministry might have stopped looking at the sustainable enemy too narrow. A minister spoke in the article, if I recall correctly, that it was clear that fishing in the large whales of Iceland was not risking the population as such, that there was no trend toward the extinction of the species, although several individuals were caught each year. However, in view of the information that has been observed in recent years, in terms of the immense impact of whales on marine life, on living things, especially on the top of the laws of the sea, where the food of these fish is available and the carbon captivity of these animals, I wondered if this narrow approach, often performed by the Ministry, in terms of alleged kidnapping of marine crops, is not simply a tight and waste of approach, whether this need to be expanded.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u75	A respectable president. What a joy it is to be able to make changes in the Council of the Management Board reviews the structure and interaction of the classes of the new Food Ministry! Among the things that we've done there is setting up a field office that has a background in other departments at the Ministry, i.e. touches both the offices of a fishing road, the offices of agriculture, and the offices of food and fish farming. This office is called the office self-sustaining. This is to guide the discussion of land use and marine resources to be in line with the ideologies of sustainable development and all its articles, as well as with the basis for the basis for the global agreements we have had, on the other hand, for climate, which is, of course, one of the modern major topics, but also a contract that should address more of the Convention on Biodiversity and is part of the use of marine resources, whether it is marine resources, fish or other species in the sea, but also the use of land quality. So it's my opinion that this fundamental point has only been applied to the Board of Directors and under my leadership in the Food Ministry, it's really going to be a cornerstone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u76	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister. KPMG recently compiled for the marine eco-efficiency Association analysis of fishing and fish farms. These articles show that they are making a considerable amount of money for the nation's farm. It also confirms that as the increase in recent activities has resulted in a growing market supply for fish farming, in 2019 it went over 1 billion for the first time and in nearly 1.2 billion in 2020. The analysis also shows that the switch between state and rural income is significantly reduced and confined to the rural communities. The share of rural society in total fishing and fish farms has been 26◯29% between 2016,202l, mainly in the remuneration of fish farms and employees'pay outlets. This does not require a wide variety of the importance of fish farming for communities where it is practiced in the west and east, but the communities that host this growing sector may all be on to ensure that infrastructure is needed to meet the needs and keep threads in the structure process. The structure on the wood provides the basis for the growth of the article and of a joint advantage. The growth of population, the change in population compositions, and the change in fish farming services calls for large investments in rural society, and this puts pressure on their infrastructure, especially in areas where there has been a devastating effect over the last two decades. Therefore, it is urgent that income from subsidies in fish farms depend on the necessary activities of the next rural society, along with the assurance that their sustainableity will be rejected and society in which these activities are practiced. That's why I want to ask the highest. Food Minister first: Do Ministers believe that current legal and regulations in fish farms, and then marine farms, safe rural areas where marine farming is practiced clear enough authority to take charge of the fire? If not, shall the Minister intend to offer a clearer suggestion for currency? Second, does a minister consider that current remuneration rights in the fish farms' legal and regulations, and then marine farms, reflect the costs that each member of the community needs to meet in the building and service of aquaculture? If not, will the Minister suggest a better payment form? Third: Does Ministers believe that current currency rights are suitable to distribute fish from marine farms to rural areas? If not, what ideas would a minister consider suitable for distributing income equals in the coastal areas? Will a minister promote changes in that material?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The Senator first asks if they're hired and if they're guaranteed enough authority to take charge of the fire and if not, whether as a minister intends to propose a more clear suggestion for reimbursement. In time, it is asked if these sources reflect the cost of rural society. It is a clear objective in the Treaty of a new government to shape the overall policy of building, saving fish farming, and at that level of employment we will emphasize the opportunity for employment and the importance of the article building on the basis of sustainable, scientific knowledge and protection of wild salmon strains. This is what we are entrusted with in a government covenant. In accordance with the current law and regulations, rural society is permitted to collect a specific price of a marine farm with a so-called remuneration. However, that license applies only if a fish is part of the community. As matters are being done today, most fish are in few places and so are many rural areas that cannot collect that amount. At the same time, companies in some cases have used a slaughtering ship, which means that no fish comes to shore and, as a result, no way for the community to collect expenses. Other ways for the rural population to collect pay are through conventional farms, such as outbacks. Similarly, rural society can apply through a fish farm fund, while a third of the currency may be paid on the basis of law No. 89/209, for the take of fish farms and fish farms, that's exactly what's in it. The Treaty states that there will be a whole set of policies for building, staging, and depositing fish farms. I've had good contact with the rural communities that have the richest interest there, and the fish farm is going to remain unchanged this year. However, today the government will take a top priority on food policy policies and particularly on fish farming. The project is designed to evaluate status, challenges, and opportunities in this article, and it will specifically discuss the national benefits of fish farming as well as the benefits of fish farming. The ransom and the division will also be considered separately. As fish farms develop in many parts of the world, rural society has experienced a wide range of positive changes with population growth and increasing employment opportunities, with so - increasing trade being accompanied by growth pain. As shown in my reply above, I will put the implementation of currency clearances in the priority of these policies. There, I will receive the presence of local members and other stakeholders on how these matters are best handled. Part of the work in policy management is identifying the need for infrastructure, both national and rural. It is very important to further promote cooperation between countries and rural areas of climate and environment. The rural population plays a key role in the implementation of the acidic economy, air pollution, water protection, nature protection and protection of biodiversity, but the activities associated with fish farms are in all of these via direct and indirect means, with very rapid growth and rapid growth in very short periods of time. It needs to improve the integration of rural and regional planning programmes so that better access to infrastructure and services can be made. All of this needs to be beneath us as we look into the development of this article. However, as noted earlier, rural communities can collect certain fees, but they charge only the rural population where income is available. This creates a problem in the distribution of fish farms between individual rural societys in which fish farming is practiced. As noted, rural society can apply for funding in fish farms, which has only once been distributed, and there were some criticisms regarding national stock exchanges. This year the amount will be increased by 80 million, from 105 million to 185 million, and that amount will then increase gradually over the next year due to a very large increase in production and incremental pay that will fully be implemented in 2026. The amount of money the fund will have in four years will be in the range of six thousand and 800 million. Another factor is that the fund has changed its distribution regulations in order that individual projects cannot be given a higher strength than 50 million. These features will all be taken into the long - term policy model of fish farming, but of course, it is very important that the articles be brought into harmony with society and environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u78	A respectable president. I want to thank you for an important discussion here, and both the highest. Minister and minister. The emphasis they place on this is a foreman. In this context, I'd like to point out that we have the experience and maybe we can learn from it and what we should consider when talking about the sea route and the fishing oceans. I myself live in a country population of 60 billion in export costs and pay more than 400 million in fishing expenditures from this community. However, 75% of the sailors live in a rural society other than mine and do not pay the answer. As a taxpayer, I have to be responsible for the debt of the harbor and construction of infrastructure that will make this income for a government fund, but the local society will not earn any money from it. So there are many views that need to be considered, and I encourage you to keep that in mind when it's done further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u79	Madam President. When we worked on new fish farms three, four years ago, we were even. discuss this aspect, the fish farm, and how it should flow to the countryside. It was decided to go that way. It's like the highest. The secretary assumed that these amounts will increase dramatically over the next three, four years and will be quite high by 2025, 2026, perhaps 600,800 million. We had in mind that this would only be developed so that soon it would be in order to see what the experience would be, and then in the legislation we would develop this conversation that was very much discussed at this time and very necessary, and I think it is necessary to see how things have developed. It is mainly the remuneration achieved by rural society. At that time, a warning was given about slaughter commands that have been used a little when some situation arises, how they might be affected. This is an important rapidly growing industry, and we need to develop this conversation that has to deal with the rural business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Councilmen before their downturn. Yes, it is quite true that this is so hard to deal with, and we have a new article that we are following along with. In the fall, the first payment from a fish farm was given, but it was correctly referred to here earlier that we set it into law two years ago. Fish farms are supported by the law, and one third of the income of fish farming is expected to flow into a fish farm in years to come and we are talking about the need to import it. In the fall, there were 105 million distributed from farm society applications where marine farming is practiced. Decisions for funding should be based on the results of professional assessments of applications. Then it has become such a competitive fund in view of the goals set, as stated in the Regulation on the fund. This starts with a race for the most substantial application based on detailed data on the project for strength to be applied. Two rural areas on the West got 34 million. K. And 70 million. K. went to the east. A lot of work is behind the application, and it is clear that rural society cannot provide a realistic budget or a implementation plan in relation to the activities of the job sector, as other areas can be developed in the region. So a new and powerful industry does not provide what is needed for communities to grow in the right way. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it believes that the export of fish farms is suitable to distribute income from fish farms into the next rural society. At the end of my talk, I want to thank you for the answers that came from the highest level. Minister. It is good that emphasis is being made on, and that we are already working on it, this very important task. If the foundations of society that are close to fish are not allowed to grow, then the industry is in danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-28-43.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your time. It is true that, according to my wish, the Government Accounting has agreed to take over the affairs of fish breeds, so it is in place. In fact, I suppose you'll hear it here first because I think the press release of that decision is coming tomorrow. Because of what? A senator is particularly concerned about the fish farms and how the arrangement develops then we actually have this guidance from the council, from the Law of 2019, about the best way to do it. I notice that when I read reviews of the bill at the time, there was speculation as to what was best in that regard. That's where we even came from. discussed how it would be better to divide the budget through an equation fund at some point. There is, of course, one way. But I think it's very important that the conversation about how this is best done is with our rural society itself, that we both go through the experience of this arrangement as it is, but as far as possible. A senator mentioned at the end and is so important, that we cannot look to the branch to grow if it does not have support for powerful infrastructures. It has to be, and it doesn't matter whether we're talking about a place to slaughter, whether or not we're talking about ports, if we're talking about road transport, etc., this has to be there for the story to grow into harmony with the environment and with nature. I look forward to seeing what comes out of the review Marketing Review and then going into the long-term policies needed.
