ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u1	With letters, dated February 7 and February 9, 2022, President has requested it, bri. 8th cycle 1.mg. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board and on the board of directors, are covering the reports of the National Reconsistencies under the name Tolla project for agricultural products and Iceland's National Protection Agency, on the other hand, on the basis of reporting on projects and revenues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u2	President. In the land of opportunity, fliers increased by 0.75 percent. What does that mean for the people of the country? Yes, a shock to those who are already in trouble, which have already been involved in this pandemic with us, with all that belongs to, is increasing prices - everything is going up - and the mad housing markets that no one can understand. In fact, an increase in the direction of Iceland's National Focal Bank, a respectable president, is far too much. You might take a little more careful steps. I'd like to know if the fine bank manager could answer this question: What is the value of the Federal Bank that holds down the crown whenever possible and will stop it from getting stronger so that the public and Iceland can enjoy a stronger cent and deal with the ever - increasing price of import? A 0.75% increase in the control interest of the Federal Bank, a respectable president, does not describe what has been mentioned here, in a previous campaign, ◯land of instruments. If this is the land of opportunity, perhaps it would be better to start packing, as so many have done; those who have chosen with their feet and who have tried to get something else. Is that really how, more dignified President, it should be said that taking on another one of the covens is going to be committed to the country's home? In the land of opportunity, it must be a fundamental requirement for the government to respond by countermand measures so that those with varying growth and those about to take the edge, those who have to look at tens of thousands of increases in a month of their mortgages - they will not be thrown out on god and bugged, as was the case here after the economic breakdown of 2008 when a high of 15,000 families lost their homes. I just hope, Mr President, it's at least... not the land of opportunity that was being offered for the last election.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u3	A respectable president. In this room, money for various lawsuits is largely handled. In one day, sheep were on the feet of our currency in business. Then came a golden foot, but it is no longer our standard. Let us take a little imagination together, and imagine familiar sheep, now huge four - footed, Icelandic sheep, or national sheep. The nation's sheep are loaded with heavy loads, and from year to year they increase. This national disaster has no golden footprints. One leg might be called an aluminium leg, a green leg, a symbol of the green energy here that triggers the big industry. The second leg of the future certainly came to be with gold, i.e. The gold of the future, the white gold mentioned, itself the pure and valuable water that flows here to the sea. Let's have a third foot back, let's have the traditional meat and fish foot, the symbol of our organic green and sweet. The fourth leg is an artificial leg from Inncussar, a symbol of powerful innovations and profitable exports. Then there is the fifth leg, which recently added, is the horse foot, the turban foot, which, rather, was able to lighten the ever - growing burden of an ex - four - footed horse. If so, this raven may well take over the horns and the head. You see, he's a creative beast, this national sanctum. And of course, we nationalize the word "glorious " over the human condition of our own time. May now our creative human beings still strengthen their creative powers so that in the years to come, and decades of strength from the countless stings of our nation's wealth. Let's make the Congress more efficient, more dignified President so that we can give more time for creative discussions and imaginations to support new Icelandic employment so that all human life in Iceland can be assured.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u4	Mr. President. We need to discuss Norway. Norway is like the other states of the Northern states of climate, but at the same time, one of Europe's most aggressive oil - disposal countries is not just one of the most aggressive but the most successful. This was made clear in a yesterday's report published by Oil Change International, where the facts of our cousins on the other side of the Atlantic were covered. During the past ten years, Norwegian governments have issued 700 permission to search for oil and gas in Norwegian jurisdiction, which is over 47 years earlier. The already authorised oil and gas regions would release three gigatons of carbon dioxide, which is sixty-fold the emissions of Norway itself. And now the Norwegian government is granting permission for a time bomb in the Barents, a so-called Wisting area that could release 200 million tons of carbon dioxide if all of that oil was to be seen and burned. Mr. President. It's because of Norway that Iceland has to ban oil search within the Icelandic jurisdiction, that is because of Norway and other countries that we have to enter the international relationship that has turned away from oil and gas searches that could not be held during the last UN climate conference because the government did not accept my bill for an oil search ban last spring. Thus, only the Icelandic government can attend meetings together with Denmark and Sweden, who have joined this coalition, saying: "Dear Norway, stop this confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u5	A respectable president. Yesterday, large numbers of Covid's disease were detected in Iceland. However, in hospitalisations due to illness, the number of patients in hospital has not increased and is about 33 patients in hospital due to Covid. Within a few weeks, Covid's ultrasound variants have taken over and are likely to be reduced in the community. It is my hope that the pandemic that has held us in the grave for two years will be over. So I'm going to let myself be optimistic. It is a fact that we Icelanders have been successful in comparison with other nations, and this should be a cause for rejoicing. Now we have to put the emphasis on the major projects ahead of us. Economic growth in this country was about 5% a year ago and the economy has been taking over, but inflation is a major concern and there is too much unemployment in this country, especially in the South, where it is measured just below 10%. Yet, many companies are having problems getting people to work, so they do not quite agree. In Iceland, the proportion of people who are active at work has been at the highest level in the Western world. Work is, of course, a matter of well - being and the basis for increased quality of life. So I think it's important that we revise the resources offered to those who drop out of a job market as a part of a more vigorous demand for the epidemic. Special attention should be given to the support of young people who have not studied or who have not been at work. We need to look for ways to increase their opportunities to promote their dreams, to strengthen their faith in their own abilities, because even in the face of temporary trauma, our opportunities in this land are endless for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u6	President. This morning, I was serving an open meeting of the management and monitoring committee at the highest level. Prime Minister for her dealings with Kári Stefánsson, director of Icelandic genetic analysis. The Communication was a review of a Persian protection decision that the company had broken against a personal protection law when a blood sample was taken from patients with Covid-19 at the Land Hospital without the patient's informed consent. Stefánsson's report has required an open letter to the government that, by permission of the President, she would express her disapproval of the Federal Protection Act that the International Genetics have violated the law of antibody testing and the vow to protect the company while seeking their rights in the courts. Today, there is an independent institution that plays a very important role in human rights protection in Iceland. In fact, in a pandemic situation it is more important than ever to have an independent observer who ensures that scientific research is not carried out on people without their informed consent and that the process of personal information depends on personal protection laws to protect the privacy of the citizens. That's why it's so important. The prime minister stands up and does not give in to the threat of Icelandic genetic analysis to describe his negative position on the topic of Peron Protection in order to prevent the company from giving up all the work of screening at Covid-19. The best of us. Whether the minister's reply to the letters of Kári crossed the minister's boundaries and entered the Persian protection field. It also helps us to determine whether the letters undermined the independence of Peronism. Similarly, at the meeting I asked if there was no harm to the Icelandic medical system if Kári Stefánsson was not at all floundering. About this and many more things we had. A minister of verbal exchange at an open meeting this morning, and I encourage audiences and senators to watch the meeting, which is available on the Allied Web site. I urge you to form your own stand on this important matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u7	A respectable president. Let's go back a little, about five months or so. It's the second part of August last year in the country of opportunity. The political party shows advertising everywhere to reach voters, including on their websites, their community media, and their websites. The advertisement has war inscriptions: The lowest interest in history. No less, the lowest interest in history. They have been pleased with themselves in the advertising theater when this text was born because it is certainly catchy. However, let it be balanced in part how much falsifying history is to take possession of the growth reduction process, since economic intelligence was not born in the brains of brilliant people in a meeting room in Valhalla but was largely naturally responsible for the pandemic virus. Nevertheless, the Independence Party, sometimes teaching itself on responsibility and economic issues, continued to drum up the idea that Iceland had suddenly become some kind of a interest paradise, the lowest interest in history. At that time, there were 1% in fruit control and let us remember that this was five months ago. It took us five months to lose control of 1% and to 2.7%, and it is unlikely that growth will increase even more. The CIA is an independent organisation and responds to the situation with the tools and tools the bank owns. My words are not of the bank but of the responsibility of politicians who sell to the public the thought that the election was permanently removed from the United States of America. The result is, of course, that people take unnecessary risks in debt and live with mortgages that have increased by tens of thousands each month and that have not yet been whistled to the end. In the campaign, the restoration repeatedly pointed to this: We pay higher interest in Iceland than we do in neighboring countries. It took a pandemic, where entire communities were locked and locked around the world so that the independent party could carry their breasts and advertise with great anger: the lowest interest in history. That situation lasted four months. Iceland was the land of growing equipment for four months.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u8	Mr. President. That's what happened. paritaprevir See, Sigmar Guðmundsson is the essence of the matter. The government gave unrealistic expectations that the population in the country was suddenly in some new reality, a reality similar to that we know in neighboring lands. In other words, we would be inside a low - interest environment. Could any young people who wanted to buy an apartment still have their own agreements with this reality? Today, however, the Bath - sheba speaks of the need for growth and has increased by 2 percentage points in a very short period of time, 0.7 percentage points this morning. The predictions of the World Bank, which have generally been too cautious, account for 5.8% of inflation. This is the new reality. The late bank manager said this morning, too, that the Navy bank was not responsible for and does not have a share in it. You're absolutely right. But that is what governments do. You see, governments have a rich role in the battle against injustice; with a righteous tax system, social housing, support for children's families, and a powerful social security system. This is understood by the governments of which we compare ourselves, whether we look to Germany, Britain, Spain, or elsewhere. It is about to begin action that will temporarily relieve those who are going to be cut off for this crown - virus crisis in the months to come. We in the United States have, along with other groups, submitted a conquistador proposal to counterweight action against this and we must resign and insist that the government responds rapidly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u9	V.E.G. President. Life is art. All around us, music, color, and creative ideals teem with life. Our creative abilities vary, and in my case, our abilities are very limited. Some of us, though, decide to make art our life's work, and now we are becoming even more aware that art is commercial in the big context. Last month, for instance, an assignment was made out of the artist's earnings. After distribution, it was noted that young artists are less likely to receive a job than the more experienced ones. Hence, it was decided that a special capital was an earmark for young artists, and it is important to support up - to - date artists. One young musician, who has received the salary of artists, told me, with the permission of a president: The art prize has been invaluable in helping to establish his career as a young musician after study. They make it possible for me to focus on all kinds of new Icelandic music and to pursue my research in the interests of Icelandic culture with full force. V.E.G. President. People do not leap on the scene as full - grown, mature artists. It grows into a job. The sooner we give people the opportunity to expand their creation, making it possible to earn money with the art, the better. Yet, it is not just the government to support Icelandic culture, the one that consumers can do to support and strengthen. Through digital evolution, there is an opening for us as consumers to support Icelandic culture. Because there is a great deal of value in Icelandic art and culture, it is vital that governments support and strengthen young people and increasing artists.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u10	A respectable president. Yesterday, the Ministry of Health released the good news that at Mrs. Ragnönönönön, the red Cross's decomposition project, they are now being able to offer their clients to naloxone. Naloxone is a nasal spray that can save lives in people who get too much opioid medicine. It is good to see the Ministry of Health clearly call attention to this and to speak clearly for the loss of damage. Yet, the fact is, as noted in the news report on the matter last week, that it is not the State that finances this but the financial resources of the local community. Mrs. Ragnhem's work has all been financed from the very beginning by voluntary donations, even though the state and the city of Reykjavík have also contributed some kind of strength. This lifesaving activity depends on making money outside the public system. Thanks also to Ragnheiður Ragnhehönka, the views both in politics and in the community to the detriment have become as positive as they really are. Others follow Frú Ragnheiður and want to join, anyway. But now I feel that it is time for the government to consider stepping in with the funding of such life - saving services rather than constantly relying on volunteers'initiatives. This work has long been proved, and it can now be fully established. You might, for example. Consider this parallel work in legalizing the use of drugs, which, of course, I hope the council will prosper in this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u11	A respectable president. The U.S. Bank of Money Policy has thrown the war gloves and decided to raise the bank's height by 0.75 percent, from 2% to 2.75%. The slap with the war gloves will snap hard and hard at those who broke so terriblely to take back unscrupulous loans with variable interest. For that, it must be well punished and used with tens of thousands of dollars each month for their loans. The Secret Bank's prophecy on the development of inflation is famous for its failure, and it will be left to this need to hang on the mortgage debt only 5.8% on the first quarter of the year and only 5% beyond this year. The economic violence will then begin to resolve, and inflation will slow down, with increases in housing prices and international prices rising. However, the famous inflation aim of the Federal Bank is not reached until the end of the forecasting period or probably not in the near future. The second bank produced a grouse, and the bait was low and manageable. Young people resorted to buying a home and made it a point to pay off the loans instead of borrowing inflatable loans that are raised and raised. In autumn collective agreements, it is hoped that there will be a demand for an increase in pay so as to cover the costs of interest. Bankers and other financial companies are making their own money. Homes that may previously have one single malt bottle or bottle of light in the refrigerator - there will be nothing. The worst were left behind. And what's being offered? Yes, they are offering that people, young people who believed in the truth constantly would be able to grow up and could own their homes, they are in danger of losing them, and they are in danger of land in a rented tenet.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u12	Mr. President. Justly, the land is being treated with a destructive storm as a mild - tempered one, causing no more harm than was done. This is especially true because of good management and warnings. We were once again thoroughly reminded that our infrastructure, to protect people's lives and health, is full of holes. Too many places in this country do not have a safe medical care and the constant presence of doctors and nurses to deal with in the event of a serious illness or an accident. One of those places is real fun. There was a work accident on Monday, just when a storm was impossible, and doctors who were to care for the inhabitants of the week had not arrived. Happily, things went better than they saw, and the incident did not prove to be as serious as it could have been. There is yet another reminder that such communities are not offering reliable and permanent medical care for the inhabitants and companies working there. There was an overcrowded accident at G.Run's house. in which there are between 90 and 100 persons. It is a responsibility to be able to ensure the safety and well - being of staff in such companies. This needs to be improved even now, ensuring medical care in Gunnauts and other areas of the country that are unique. This is an important part of ensuring the safety and quality of life of the entire country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u13	Mr. President. How important it is that money policy and government policy draw the chariot in the same direction! We have experience with what can happen if policy conflicts. It's the Secret Bank's job to maintain prices as steady as possible. His efforts to fulfill his role may lead to an increase of inequities, a variety of ways in which the measures met society's groups. The bank's role is not to be measured in the community. However, it is our job, our elected agent, to do so. This morning's GDP will be having a negative effect on the majority and those who already spend the vast majority of their provisions for housing expenses, people in the position of not allowing unexpected expenses. In this situation, there are many single parents, a group of immigrants, desperate people who need to rely on insurance payments, people who live in poverty, the 10,000 people who are still without employment and young children in a negative position. The tenet market situation is difficult and uncertain, especially now when the inflation is rising and the rent that is tied to an index is automatically rising. Inflation and growth, the cost of housing for low and average income is even higher than the threshold of provisional teas. It is simple to improve our housing system, both by means of interest or by means of rent. It is also simple to improve our child - welfare system. It must only be adjusted by property and pay standards and limits of decline. Systems exist, and immediate action is possible and immediate action is actually needed. What is missing, however, is the political will of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u14	V.E.G. President. Once again, the unacceptable wait period for women must be pointed out for needed improvements. Lately, interviews with women with endometrias have been made, and now, at the last news class last night, an interview was made with a woman who was diagnosed with endome tris when she was 28 years old. The woman had been in pain since she was 14 years old. Endothelin, as the disease is commonly called, is a disease caused by the endome-trip cells found in various parts of the body that respond to monthly hormonal changes in the female body. These cells, in effect, fly. All of this can cause great pain. As a result, women may not be able to become pregnant. Now it's got the highest. A health minister suggested that joint replacement procedures be carried out here in Iceland. It is important that the same should be true of women waiting for action. This disease is no joke, and that's why a contract between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Clinical is needed so women don't have to wait anymore. Now a doctor has started work on the clinical community, which has a lot of experience with such measures, which means that women have to make their own pockets, we're talking about a million and more, but waiting time at the Land Hospital is up to two years. I'd like to encourage the highest. A health minister to respond promptly to the pleas of these women, many of whom are in agony.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u15	President. Sometimes it is said that the eye is obvious. As a deputy senator, you could say I'm a guest here this week, and I even have. spent time studying the extent of our small country's governance system. I would like to encourage senators to pause and consider whether the government of the country cannot be reduced and thus reduce costs. Imagine that we were now forming our republic. Would we start by establishing 180 government institutions and 40 government companies, 700 schemes and committees to keep the system going? Would we create a board of directors with some 800 employees and 12 conferences? I don't think so. Would it be necessary to have a debt bank with 300 employees? Do we need 40 monitoring agencies, or could we possibly unite them? Would we divide the land into 69 societies, or would only 12 be enough? Our little country has become way too big in my opinion, and I suspect most of the taxpayers in this country would agree with me. During the present government, there is an ever - increasing crisis. The latest play is increasing up to 2 billion people. I am not bringing reproach on the work of public employees, and most of them are giving us a wonderful service. But the public sees what the Kingdom system is expanding every day, the expansion is increasing when advertised by more employees and Kingdom office buildings rise around us. At each month, the scope of the government is revealed when employees see that only about half of the pay is paid out. The other half will pay public fees, and Iceland is now the second greatest taxpayer in the West. President. Therefore, I encourage senators to stop and consider whether to do better in these matters. Reversibility will provide support for any ideas that reduce government construction and improve public efficiency and efficiency services, e.g. with digital solutions. [[The president calls.]] We will also bring up ideas that reduce the curse on the companies and homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u16	Mr. President. First, I want to express my special joy by speaking before me the talk of the above. paritaprevir Tómas Möller. What I'm going to do here is talk stuff. It's kind of like that. I was interested in listening to a discussion in this hall recently, where members of the United States severely criticized the decision to increase the number of counsellors by one, from 11 to 12. I thought that criticism was fueled by the same council in 2011 that the city's citizens in Reykjavík were rebuffed by a law order of 53%, with the approval of a new government law. This was done if there was no need to increase the number of citizens in Reykjavík, and although it had been shown that the number of clients in behind each city council in Reykjavík was very similar to that in the capitals in Northern and other cities we would like to compare with. The growth of the city councilman in Reykjavík has increased by 53%, from 15 to 23. So I'd like to inform the United States of Congress that I'd like to submit a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011. I will, along Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir, 6th. We're out of here. The change means that rural communities will be allowed more space than is now available to determine the number of elected representatives in their rural administrations. In the case of Reykjavík, the obligation to have Councillor 23 will be taken away. They will only be authorized, so the mayor will be able to decide for herself whether she would like to have the Councilman 23 or 15 as well as it was for a long time. This change will not only affect Reykjavík. The law has had an impact on the growing council of Mosfellstown and Gardour, in total distaste of their local governments. This needs to change and give the government more power to decide for themselves how large or small the booth should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u17	A respectable president. If U.S. National Institutes of Foreign Affairs and Justice were to be legalized, the General Information and Education Committee would have received information which would be needed to achieve citizenship applications early December. However, that institution and that minister have chosen not to follow the law and have not yet given the council the information that the Senate needs and the right to the legal rights, as it were, in the late February of February. I come back here again, as many of us have done, to the President's conference board because of both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The president has said that he would discuss this matter at the highest level. Minister of Justice and encourage him to obey the law. But there is still no news. There is still no legal hearing, nor is the National Institute for Justice, nor is there a legal law of Foreign Affairs, nor is there to complete the matter of the evidence that the Council is entitled to receive. So I want to ask the highest. President here at President's conference board, where is this case? When is it that Iceland's Minister for Justice will be legal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what was presented here, and I'd like to express concern about how the government will begin with the council and with the laws given here. The situation is that the U.S. National Institute of Foreign Affairs, apparently an order by the Minister of Justice, stands in the way that the Allied member of the Council can perform its legal function in the interest of citizens' rights. The minister has gone so far in his defense to talk about candidates for citizenship as perfunctory, such as the people who have the dream of becoming Icelandic citizens, is some kind of privileged team. That's not nice. Then there was a lack of respect for the legislature and its surveillance agencies in the hearing of the Council, where ministers seem to feel that they are about to revise clearly the requirements of the personnel law in a way that is quite adventurous to avoid the principle of advertising in order and sentences in public and office. This is serious, and we here at the council have to use the tools and tools we have to set clear limits for stewards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u19	A respectable president. We have been seeing in the past what sort of duty it is legally obliged to remove the disease prevention procedures, just a legal obligation to do so. It is also the legal duty of the Generals to provide the applications that come here for the citizen's rights. In order for us to do so, we need the evidence that is paid for the release of the Foreign Institute of Iceland. Payed for. Still, we don't get them. Here we are struggling, apparently, to some extent, not to the law, but to some well - meaning minister. This is a matter of Minister responsibility. Now it must be possible to talk about the reality of something that we need to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u20	Mr. President. October 1st, deadlines were issued to submit applications to the National Institute of Iceland to continue to the General for the granting of citizens by law. Something the Council usually does before Christmas. It's February time. October 1 was four months ago. The people who responded to an application in good faith have been waiting a third of a year, not because there's some trouble or there's been some wrong information or there's a lot to do or just some trouble at the council. No. The council has been begging the administration to resolve these people's data so that we can deliver them. This is completely disturbing to all of these individuals and to the General. It is absurd, Mr. President, that the Foreign Institute and Foreign Ministers are thus abusing their power in this way to achieve their political will against the people who applied for civil rights in October. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u21	A respectable president. Yeah, the story of a meeting board over civil rights continues. She continues because of the highest. The minister continues to ignore the General Assembly, continuing to ignore a request from a respectable president, continuing to ignore a request from the Supreme Court. The prime minister who is supposed to be his boss ignores the law and ignores the respect of the Generals. So I ask a respectable president, Mr President has heard at the highest station. Recently, would a minister want to comply with the law or do we need to do anything to remove him from his modern position?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u22	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u23	Mr. President. Last week I criticized the transfer of a government accountant from the area of the legislature and across to the European Commission with the completely unprecedented application of 36 g. The staff song. There's a party at that convention. This is not the only case, however, that the Board of Directors is used as a scourging for a very unusual legal structure. A recent announcement was made to the university, industrial, and innovation websites in which the temporary sentences of the new Ministry of Ministry are justified by reference to Article 24. Workaholics, a law code that takes into account situations when an officer has fallen away, not when an office is appointed or replaced. It's perfectly clear if we look, for example. the opinion of the emissary of the Generals, referred to by the agent in his letter of inquiry to the minister, that this law should be interpreted narrowly. It is not that at the conversion of the Council of Directors, the General gave stewards and the government some sort of free exercise when it comes to the interpretation and application of legal regulations, such as the staff law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not like that, and we have to send a clear message about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u24	Mr. President. I just did not resist the temptation to participate in this party. I can agree with everything that has been said about the importance and seriousness of this matter, but I intend to approach it from what I've done before, which is the respect of the General Assembly. I don't think it's a good idea that the situation is to come up here and moan something is the only thing we have. The law is clear. Under that law, the authority of the Generalis is clear. According to this law and the work of the minister, the members of Parliament are also clear. We're breaking the law here. We're standing here, and we can't do anything but wait for the highest level. The President of the Generals to assist us. And I don't even, with all due respect to the President's Committee, what advice does he have against the determined will of the Minister? What do people in general do when there is a violation of that law? What will be our next step?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u25	President. I've been on this committee. I did so during the last term, and immediately after that the ability of the World Health Committee and Education Committee to do its work was undermined by the U.S.A.A.A.'s work by turning in data too late, with the need to postpone payment so that there was far too little time left to go through it. That's what took care of the situation. Especially did I realize how devastating that was last time. Now is the time to take the step further. Now is the time to deny the evidence that the council has the right to receive by law. And this is done by the minister's political stand. This is a misuse of power, Mr. President. Similarly, individuals who have applied for citizenship to the Generals have legitimate expectations for their application. A fee was taken for this, $25,000. price for work that the Foreign Institute does not perform. This matter has been considered by the Economic and Business Committee and will be handled there, provided that this is not working out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u26	A respectable president. The minister has a right to his opinion, but he is to obey the law. If he wants the law to be in his opinion, he needs a bill to change the law to the council before he begins to enforce his thoughts and personal opinions. It is the act of law responsible for by the minister. If the minister fails to act, then it means two things: one on the other hand, that council simply gives up on that minister or, if it is violated in the way that there is an informed minister's decision, he just makes it clear and clear on purpose and, on the other hand, being determined, etc., there is also a law on it. It's not a law to use wisely. We just follow the law. If we are going to do something else, we will make adjustments in the way things are done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u27	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Food secretary for responding and taking up a discussion on domestic food production. The local food product is now a very big concept, and for the purpose of the discussion, I focused on three questions. The first question involves the products of the meat industry. During the last term, a former agricultural minister's work was carried out on a review of agricultural management conditions. It has been observed that domestic meat production has recently been in a fierce competition with foreign production in a local retail. I believe that it is necessary to meet national manufacturers so that the products of the carnivorous industry receive an exception from the 71 stre. Bumblems. We have an example of doing this. There I am talking about the milk industry, and we know just how it worked out. It's been 17 years since that route was gone, and it can truly be said that it has, I just think, worked well. There has been some practicality. The company, of course, has a measure of protection in customs and in other matters, but it also has considerable responsibilities toward markets. It also has obligations to the early producers, i.e. the farmers in this context. I'm willing to say that this is where we can say that farmers in this article have survived. What we're dealing with in this team, turning to the production of meat, is quite another factor. The market is an enormously competitive place. We know, and we all know, and we've observed the discussion, that the place in sheep farms and the herd culture is greatly limited, to be spoken of in a mild way, and that's where we have to respond. One of these ways is the one mentioned in this context to which the 71nd issue of this issue is addressed. agricultural shapes and access to milk production must be similar to the road around the country. There have been various analyses of the potential for economy within this sector. The last time was an analysis by a former minister who came out last year, I think Deloitte won that analysis. It refers to up to 1.5 billion. Then it's just the herding and the bovine production. Then there are other analyses. If we also took the white sector in there, we could be talking about an even higher figure, 2◯3 billion a year, which would be practical for the unity. What is the purpose of these routes? Clearly, in order for us to create a specific work environment for the article, we need to keep our arms on it. The purpose must be the one among us in all of this that we can keep making it possible for the original producer, the farmers, the sheep farmers, or those who produce meat, to have the goods of what they are doing. This is fundamental, and we need to find ways to do so. There are other points that I would like to highlight that focus on our customs agreement with the European Union and review of it, especially in view of the fact that the British have gone out there. Above all, there is a very important point that focuses on the food safety and the operation program that we discussed two years ago about food security and the protection of farms. I expect us to have a good and critical discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator who takes the initiative in this discussion, which is of great importance and turns the groundwork toward agricultural land conditions. As government statistics show, areas of agriculture are very discrepancies in agriculture, but on the ground there are people and families and homes behind these numbers. During the last five years, especially in sheep farms has been unscrupulous, particularly in consideration, and it is not likely that many families in the countryside are concerned about their survival in the fall because of the dramatic rise in food prices and talk about further increases in the numbers of others. It is important to keep track of the total agricultural land management conditions and to work on improving farming. For domestic meat production, which is a query. A senator, then various means of research have been taken into consideration in this regard, including what is mentioned here, whether improvement can be done by reviewing the possibility of sources to some kind of cooperation that will help them to make a success of their lives. This is similar to what has been done for milk production, as shown by the provision of such provisions. My willingness as Food Minister is not needed to ensure good competition for domestic food production, but certain aspects of what the senator asks me about are needed today. But that's the difference between the status of products in meats these days and the rest of milk. The difference exists between these centers of produce from milk and is largely owned by farmers and completely under their control. This is not the case with all products in the production of meat. Then the public prices for farmers and much of the mass mass mass mass of dairy products are revealed. In this way it is very well assured that the profit of the management will be there for farmers and consumers. I've got to figure this out, and I've been thinking about doing a full research on what possibilities there are. Of course, you could have special discussions here just about what you could do to improve the competitiveness of domestic production, but for the sake of the time, I'd like to mention one thing I think will make a big difference in the coming years, and that's the climate. Since farmers in Iceland are getting more successful on climate issues, I believe that we can reach an important advantage in foreign competition. By showing that domestic agricultural products have a lighter carbon footprint than import, this will in itself lead to consumers choosing them rather than imported products. But for such to be fruitful, it must be based on facts and knowledge rather than on image or market effects. Thus, I view climate progress as a factor in improving the competitiveness over time and that I will work as Food Minister. Hv. In view of the fact that one of our main business countries, United Kingdom, is no longer a member of the EU, a candidate will ask specifically about the review of customs agreements with the European Union. In that case, the European Union has requested that the European Union's labour agreement on agricultural products be re-evaluated, the portion of the contract made on the basis of Article 19. The EEA Convention has to deal with general agricultural products, including tollvotes for meat and dairy products. The premise of the contract and its criteria have changed for the worse since it was accepted, which is an imbalance between parties, especially when it comes to the utilisation of tollovates. This work aims forward and must be tried to speed it up as fast as possible. The Minister of Foreign Affairs conducts this and his Ministry with the EU on the contract in close cooperation with my Ministry. The main objective there is to achieve a better balance in the commercial instruments involved in the contract, especially in the form of tollovita. However, over the next few weeks, the Foreign Minister will have a meeting with the European Commission for agricultural purposes, and it can be expected that this will be taken up in a formal manner. In the preparation that I received for this discussion, I sent them. A senator also asks for antibiotic resistance, so I believe that it is a reason for me to spend my last half a minute responding to it only in case of shock. A senator has not found that in his question. Of course, in this regard it is very important to fight against antibiotic resistance. That's what the government has done, and that made the last government especially. Especially in the administration of this government, it is stated that the continuation of this action programme, which was primarily in cooperation with the health minister and marine economist and agricultural ministers, will be continued during this optimal period in consultation with the health - care provider.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u29	V.E.G. President. A competition is good. She's good for people and she's good for companies and she's good for healthy markets. It would be a big step back to expanding the accession that the milk industry has used for meat products. It was a mistake at one time to do so in this way. The Company wants to support a good-looking agriculture but have customs as low as possible to ensure professional free competition and thus a normal and healthy environment for any industry, including the meat industry. V.E.G. President. In this discussion, it may be forgotten that the interests of farmers and the interests of products do not always go together. Indeed, there are many parishes for food production in this country, especially if we make better use of the opportunities we have in the European market. I'm not talking about if we had better access to the European market as such. Compiled in the European Union. We know that Icelandic farmers have outstanding goods to sell, but the patience is against this market, and we have to face the fact that sheep'flocks will soon be practiced on a competitive basis here. Governments are to focus their attention on better support for farmers in form that would increase their variety and development in their production and activities and would no longer be responsible for the production of meat. I also want to say the highest words. Minister to stop building on this fantasy and market plan of ideas that have been fired. Let's talk about things as they are, talk about wholesome foods, talk about carbon tracks, and thus enjoy the advantage we can have as a farm country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson for this discussion and the highest. For our participation, Sisgi Svavarsdóttir. My first impression of agriculture as far as I can remember again was when I was six or seven years old in the town of Áilfjörður, where my grandfather was a farmer. I never heard him complain. It was a small nest. Later, I spent a few years in a country in Huna Lake County. There was mostly a complaint about one thing; yes, SISS, the European Union of Community Cooperation and Business Association. When that farmer brought his products to the business company, laid them in and came and asked for money, he was interrogated in the third degree and asked: "What are you going to do with the money? I remember it so well. I was so surprised because I thought he had it in there, but it didn't seem like it was. He had to say exactly what he was going to do with the money. That's what I said farmers are in a certain poverty trap. They are still doing so today. I think they're just trying to solve their issues, that's all. Meat production in Iceland - we don't have antibiotics, and the only thing is to give us a huge head start. Another factor that is to give us an enormous advantage is what is now being done in cattle fields, where much more products are being produced by each herd. We're supposed to have Icelandic cleaner productions, and if we do, I don't have much concern that farmers won't do it. But I think that's not enough. It will likely require a second addition and then a nod.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u31	Mr. President. I would also like to thank you for the perfunctory nature of this discussion. On October 22, 2020, a report published by the Institute of Law for Iceland, entitled Report on substitution of competitiveness relating to cooperation between agricultural products in the light of EEA/ESB rights. The report well summarises how the environment of industry and farming partners in many countries and the EU is living in an area different from the one we live in here. During the last winter, agrienvironmental minister then proposed a detailed bill to address the normal views of the manufacturers in creating a set of laws that are comparable to those displayed in this comparison published by the law firm in his report, a law code that I can adopt by the adulation of this discussion that must be covered with the meat field as well. But I'd still like to agree with it specifically, as mentioned in the Supreme Court case. A food minister, the approach must be based on a approach comparable to that of our competitive countries in terms of the viewpoint and transparency of such legislation. The Court's report confirmed exactly what has long been observed in the agricultural industry and elsewhere that we have not followed up any updates or restoration of agricultural legislation in this country, especially after the implementation of the EEA Convention and later special agreements for cross-to-doing. We have not used the controls needed to cope with changing situations, governments to promote domestic production and create a natural application tool. The report on Iceland that was introduced last autumn by the former agricultural minister provides a thorough understanding of these views. I want to say, for the sake of time, a respectable president. Food minister. It's a problem how we live on this, but it's totally possible, so I'm the highest. A minister to speed up the work, for we have no time to create the Icelandic agriculture and comparable competitive conditions for the agriculture he's supposed to compete with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u32	President. It is extremely tempting when it is a problem in some sector to simply shovel money into the problem, make sure that it keeps it. But that's the wrong way. There is a lack of vision. There should be alarm alarms. What we should ask ourselves is, Are we doing this wrong? We should look a little further ahead. We should take down all these fences we've put up; that's how we grow so much and so on, etc., and think only about the freedom of farmers to do their agriculture in a novel way, try new opportunities, take the new thought only on this. First, the highest. As a minister, I mention climate again as carnivores, but I have often presented a case about what has been taken under different conditions. This technology will be the cornerstone of food production after not so many years. We really need to consider reaching where it is soon, although only out of the climate. 99% less land used for production. This production would likely be used for animal breeding in the first place. The world's vastly large proportion of meat production goes to feed animals, pets. There, these technologies would begin and then develop into human life. This simply results in the situation that we do not have to sail to sea and catch fish. That won't be necessary. And what does this mean for members of the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u33	A respectable president. In this discussion, I think it can be said that wanting to support farmers, wanting to stand up with consumers, and being competitive can be a big thing. What happened, e.g. When the rules were changed, when we went further to our bones, did they strengthen us? We remember, at least Some in here, what choice did consumers have about 20 years ago and we know how different the situation is today, it's better for consumers as well as for farmers. Therefore, the competition is to be trusted. It's supposed to contribute to innovation and innovation. I believe that, and my unit, we're going to decommission a covenant order. I'm going to allow me to state that if we were to make the rules of the milk industry today, nobody would think of starting a government committee to set the price of milk, butter, and cream, the price of farms. The year is 2022, and this is the situation. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity today and remind us of our bill in Reunion that this committee will be put down and the Commission's implementation agreements and that we will contribute to equal control of markets and that prices will be allowed to be in accordance with the general market, the simple rules and laws. I think the Icelandic milk can do it. I want as much a flea in a domestic agricultural product as I want to choose Icelandic, and I'm proud of the production, but I think changing the funding system is the answer, that we progressively strengthen our own farmers, that they themselves are able to control more about how they want to create their land and land uses, that they are motivated by the induction of innovations and by the improved use of the land themselves. It's a fairy tale parish. I don't think it's much better to be killed than farmers themselves to live under a more powerful environmental and climate policy. We have simply given the agriculture the opportunity to advance, and the way to do so is to give the article freedom and freedom to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u34	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion here today, like most of the people here have been before me. This important matter is often needed, but now is necessary. There has been little emphasis on the design and construction of domestic food production on the part of the government, both that of this ideal period as well as on the last one. Here, the perfunctory asks some important questions, and I want to start by saying that I think it's very respectable, but more is needed because action needs to be taken. Then I'll come to the bottom line. In the eyes of the Middle Class, there is no doubt that all agricultural agricultural instruments will be allowed to be manipulated by cooperation and fusion beyond the limits set by competitive authorities. This should rhyme quite well with the first question of the proverb, eh? paritaprevir Þórarinn, son of Ingi, son of Pétursson. It is also very important that we cancel customs agreements with the EU, at least reviewing the contract in view of the fact that the British have left the European Union. I heard you were at the highest. In fact, a food minister said that the review of these contracts was in the process of death. Finally, I'd like to point out that we need to stop importing non-frozen meat, eggs, and unbound foods. It is because of its special status and its importance for food and food safety. That's never gonna be said enough. More can be found in a synopsis proposal proposed by the Central Party Parliament. It has never been as important as it is now to support domestic food production so that the products of those who continue to be strong and strong will remain strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u35	A respectable president. Food and food security policy in Iceland is part of a national security policy adopted at the General Assembly in 2016. Two years ago, a so - called marine eco-efficiency minister wrote to the agricultural university to shape a proposal for Iceland's food safety. The result of this work is a food safety report. It says that Iceland is in a position to be able to produce the food needed to have enough food but to import the maximum proportion of its food. Yet, we are limited when it comes to the variety of plant production. So says, with President's permission: In the import of food, Iceland uses not only a variety of foods but also a lower food prices in other countries, which returns to Iceland's pocket consumers and/or store. In some cases, however, the import of food is indirectly supported by low environmental standards, hygiene, health and animal care, poor markets and farming equipment. A respectable president. The times in which we live now remind us of the importance of providing food in our country. Inbound production will not be able to meet all the demand diversity. Yet, it is clear that we can spit heavily to make sure that consumers always have access to good and wholesome foods. In the pursuit, we have always been afraid to point out the obvious, that we need to support and protect Icelandic agriculture. By supporting Icelandic agricultural production, we provide not only food security but also a protection for the work of people and a guarantee of the diversity of businesses. You are often forgotten that thousands of people are doing food production in this country. Combining Icelandic agriculture can reduce the decline in the economy and at the same time provide food and food security for the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u36	Mr. President. First, I like others, thanking the advert for starting this fine discussion. I'm just going over what's been going on. There was a very good point by which. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, in the past, pointed to the assessment of the Law Institute. Sometimes it seems that there is something completely different in Europe, but in the European Treaty, there is something quite similar to our objective as in the Icelandic farming law, which is about a fair choice for farmers and more. They have established their legislation on competitive matters and agriculture in an effort to achieve it. We have taken some similar routes, but in many other ways these are different. But not all progress is made by itself; it needs an investment. In the last 20, 30 years, I have often wondered why the same has not been happening in slaughterhouses and fishing plants, both being food production in which food is being taken raw and converted into food, but the carnivorous industry has changed much less than average fish industry. It's just an investment question. That's why I think we need to think about real solutions. It does not mean working against the wheels of time but with it. It's not just about size, stuffing all the slaughters in the same place, it's also about the width of the economy, putting more stocks in rural areas, producing more food than it takes to make firm support in the right places. A wise course in these matters is seen overall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u37	Mr. President. If the consumption of every person on earth was consistent with the consumption of Icelanders, 27 land would be needed to live up to it. Our carbon footprints are twice the size of other Europeans. To have any chance of success in this largest common human project, to counteract human warming, the public needs to change and political will and the courage of the government. Our carbon footprint is the highest in transport, food, and imported goods. Thus, it is not enough to talk about transport energy exchange; we also need to change our eating habits and the production of food. The green transformation must be just for farmers and consumers. Research shows that European vegetables' carbon spores down to 26% of what is left behind by imported vegetables. Thus, there is a high environmental benefit from increased domestic product of vegetables. You need to measure the carbon track of meat produced in this country and compare with exported products and use policy tools. Around the world, people are investigating and soaking their brain to find effective ways to counteract human climate problems. It is recognized that man has to reduce meat intake. One thing investors are striving to place their money in is carnivorous. Carnage is a process for making meats without slaughtering animals, where the webs used for food are cultivated by biotechnology. A permit has recently been granted for sale of grown meat in the Singapore markets. The meat is still expensive and must continue to be developed. But I agree with what has previously been said in this discussion, that this technology needs more attention in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u38	A respectable president. It's been a lot of talk lately, but somehow I have a feeling that we're all out on the field and who's on their own to figure out what's right to do. I have no full solution to that, but I realize that there are plenty of farmers who can't survive their livestock and are therefore in one or two other jobs to try to support themselves and their families, and that's not good. There's something telling us that they're not working the way they should. But if we take ourselves as consumers and I look back in time, then I don't have many years since I went to a store to buy meat and what was my first look at? Icelandic. Then what? Guard. Then what? Foreign. Then I found out that foreign products were, in most cases, much less expensive. Then the question is, What did I choose? Yes, my power of riches. There's no question today that if I went to the store and had to choose between a foreign roast and an Icelandic one, I would choose Icelandic one, two and three. She's much better, a much better lip, and I know what I'm buying there. I don't know what I'm buying in the foreign, I have no idea how much antibiotics were used or how it was made. This is what we should focus on, get the price down on, so everyone can enjoy, not just those who can afford to buy Icelandic products.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u39	A respectable president. What an opportunity lies in the image of our country and of our purity! Therefore, it is important for us Icelanders to take care of our resources in order to demonstrate our unique position as manufacturers in harmony with our country and our community. It is not enough to say that we have clean products and clean environments. We must be able to prove this. Farmers are increasingly competitive to their colleagues in other countries where our farmers and we have to compete with producers who live with much shorter times of breeding than our farmers and markets huge. You often feel that farmers in this country are made to compete solely on terms of price, not necessarily quality. Therefore, it is extremely important that the competitive situation be equal, that we meet with comparable demands for the products brought to our country and our own products. I'm talking about the expensive well-being, the healthy product, the drug use and the products of employees working on the product. The entire chain needs to be okay. In this country, the demand for agricultural production is high, and we are expected to set comparable requirements for products for the country. China makes about 40% of all the eggs in the world. Every second egg sold in Germany is imported. Eggs have moved to Iceland from Germany. Can we really say it's a German egg? In 1925 it took about 16 weeks to raise chickens to their size. Today it takes six weeks to raise a chicken in the size of slaughter today about twice as much as it is in 1925. These examples are an example of the mass production of agricultural products. We will never be mass producers on these scales, but farmers in this country are required to compete with this mass production. I challenge the highest. Food Minister Safari Svavarsdóttir to provide a better source of food for food in this country and to remember that agriculture is the foundation of all society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u40	A respectable president. As noted today, domestic food production is under attack in many areas. A year - long medium control and systems based on sponsorship have led to inadequacy and inadequacy. Iceland is an ideal country to produce sustainable and organic products in which quality and health are found in focus rather than quantity. Although yesterday's consumers focus only on prices and availability, new generations are more aware of the importance of sustainable and organic production. Sustainableness includes, you know, in making food production itself independent of foreign materials, such as Inorganic fertilizers that the state had to pay just recently because of the high rise in import prices. Although the inorganic fertilizer has yielded to an increased quantity of hay, the increase pales as compared with the increase since the new use of bar - and - treatment of hay. So that technological revolution even opens up the possibility of returning to organic sources that exactly support sustainable and environmental growth. With this guide, I'd like to ask the highest. Food secretary what the Ministry's strategy already has to do with increasing sustainable and organic farming in this country. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Food Ministers on how the Ministry intends to promote more innovation in this area, but the amount placed in the Food Fund is far too low to meet the need there. There is also a lack of funding to support the musculoskeletal systems needed to have concomitantly with the innovations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u41	A respectable president. As we discuss measures to improve the position of the Icelandic manufacturer, we also need to protect the interests of the Icelandic consumers. In the end, they're always the ones who have to pay for it. Exceptions from competitive law and increased toll protection are designed to increase prices in the food basket. Now that prices are rising rapidly and the level of money is down, it is not something available to the homes of the country. At the same time that agriculture is on its feet, there is no shortage of Icelandic carnivores in store stores. If anything, the production has often been far beyond what can be sold. What will happen to all the treasures? They are lost in a system that is too inducing and directly related to production. We have suggested that agricultural competitiveness and support systems be eliminated, adding more factors; forestry, recovery of wetlands, tourism, and innovation, and perhaps, notably, the production of a variety of foods. Thus and only in this way can we guarantee the interests of both farmers and consumers. Unlike those here who speak for increased toll protection, I have big faith in Icelandic food production and its opportunities abroad. Let us not forget that toll protection is going both ways. When we close the country to an imported food and freedom to consumers, we also end the opportunities for international opportunities to create opportunities for ourselves. Is it not otherwise what the senator refers to when he speaks of reevaluating the customs contract to the EU, which is the largest and most important vacation contracts we have ever made? Seting limits to import means you are being limited to export at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u42	V.E.G. President. It has been helpful to listen to the discussion today. What stands out is that large increases are needed in support of domestic food production and that we can make sure that the results of this article will be strong. V.E.G. You see, a minister correctly introduced the fact that this is a matter of family life. It's about people and people's breads. So we need to take into account that further budgets for this article were the best and most reasonable option, but at the same time, we need to develop a national strategy for sustainable development, including the We need to consider energy exchange and manure. It has been observed earlier in our discussion that we have to spin with the wheel, that I agree with it, and also that we must not be forgotten in this discussion that we need to further strengthen the opportunity to produce organics and innovations in the traditional world. That's what I say because we often don't see the benefits until years have passed, and I've heard farmers say that it's difficult to get into the European Union's regulations for this. We can also mention domestic crops and nuclear product, so there are many things to consider. To mention one more important factor, we could make sure that food production serves the same value as the industry's energy. With all of this taken up, we need to make long - term contracts with farmers. As members of the Central Party, we have promoted the vital building of domestic food production in the hands of farmers throughout the country, and I really hope it will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u43	A respectable president. I just wanted to thank you very much for the fine and varied discussions that have taken place. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for true good and clear answers as well as for you, my dear. Councilmen who joined us. There's a lot of things going on that's a lot of thought, and I made a note of a lot of things that happened. The first thing that set me on fire was, "What?" paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, who was out in the field. On the ground, there was a bang. Not a senator on the field. The fundamental thing to consider as we discuss the issues involved in the release, i.e. to achieve forward management, to bring down the price, to achieve the practicality of the article. In this context, we're not just thinking about the interest of the pioneers, we're thinking about the entire chain of value, i.e. We're thinking consumers, too. That is the basic point of what we are discussing. We must bear in mind, Iceland, as a food - producing land, that it will always be if we watch the world as a whole, more mouths for food tomorrow than it is today. That is the basis for which we should walk and how we can make sure that we can make food here so that everyone can benefit from it, especially consumers and farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u44	A respectable president. I like it like what it's like. Thank you for your good and broad discussion. This gives us reason to think about how many topics we have, and we can certainly continue to do so. But the basic point is that there is a tremendous opportunity in domestic agriculture, and we need to consider what factors we as governments are putting in our administration tools, whether as farm contracts, laws, or other, in order to visualize where we want to draw our own systems. That's where we want to think about innovation. We'd like to take care of an expensive journey and an environmental one. We want to be concerned about food security and security, but we also want to take care of the supplies of farmers. We'd like to think of an increased emphasis on organic farming, which has been mentioned here. We want to think about the traceability, origination, and all of this as increasing awareness of consumers demands and is to require. Implementing agriculture has all the potential for further meeting these options. We should also consider that wholesome food is available to all, that all of us in the community can buy good, safe, and healthy food. That, too, matters. We need to think about, in the final analysis, that our decisions are in the interest of our climate goals, that we are evading food, which is far too much in the Western world, and where consumer interests and interests are guided primarily by future interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u45	A respectable president. The Migratory. This is the Mula language that has lived under that name because at the end of the year, it became very upset when we realized that they were selling shallow wood out of the country. In fact, the government had been affected by the two or two years earlier and decided to react, and this was to run through a bill in one week. There's been some of our days since then, for example. that business will not go through until the Contestance Commission has completed its investigation, etc. There are very important security factors here that we, of course, support in the United States. But we also consider it important, making changes, to consider also the safety of consumers, the whole multitude of the land, because it doesn't matter any less. I hope the management are on the side of consumers and is on the side of the public in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u46	Mr. President. The background of our being here on this particular matter is, of course, that the government groups fell short of completing long - term changes in communications as a whole during last session. Now we face the challenge of making changes in part of the law, national security issues. A group of reveries is going to be in yellow on this matter, so there are two main reasons. One is that we've got it confirmed to them that this change is not now needed at this rate. It's time to win this thing better. The second is that we simply do not trust that this case will be a step toward completing the overall law and that it will be left behind the aspect of consumer competition and interests. That's what we fear. We believe that the trouble we've made with this case is such that it's right to wait and get it all done. [[The president calls.]] However, we will be in yellow because there are changes in this matter, both from the greater part and from the lower part that are good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u47	Mr. President. Here we are at a vote on national security issues that face the shock of communications networks and communications systems. This is important, but it is also important to complete the big radio, which is the code called. I really hope we finish it by June or June, by vacation, before the end of this second. It's a big, important case that we'll have over the next few weeks. Environment and Transport Committee. But these steps we're taking here are important and important to the national security of the country, and I think we here at Congress should consider this in so many other matters too. I believe that in the next few years, we will act more specifically, as in this bill, on a show that is leading to the National Security of the Icelanders. That's the hope I have in this council hall, that it will be in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u48	Madam President. When it was recommended, it had to be completed in a whisper before Christmas in case the buyers not negotiated with Milu's merchants on citations that would follow the company. So we deal with them, and that deal goes for two years. This bill, if it becomes legal, will not apply to the Migraine sale. All communications are addressed to the Migratory issue, except for the individuals whom the case was put to the fore. With this bill, two larger law columns of this spring's Constitution will be registered. There is nothing that has been said to explain the reason for completing these provisions now that it is clear that they do not control the Mediterranean itself. This is one of the most amazing cases I see in this council, and it has become one of the most pointless things that have since been contributed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to apologize to Congress for late asking for a breakdown, but there's a lot of it here. The Environment and Transport Committee to submit an article established by the Contestant Board is very important within the bill, i.e. to give permission to a remote exchange agency to fine those who do not provide the necessary information. This is done in behalf of consumers, in the interest of the public, in an effort to match a marvelous marketing authority. Sadly, though, the majority of the Committee is canceling this directive that the Contestance Board considers very necessary. Sadly, once again the government groups are opposing the will of a competitive authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u50	The president has to state that the subject was likely to be discussed. At the next vote, a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u51	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in law, and now listen carefully, about the service and knowledge centre for the blind, impaired vision, and of the persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment. This bill is really just about changing it a little bit. It's a little difficult for people when you're calling in a service and knowledge center and getting all this moss. The bill simply means changing the law No. 160/2008 and modify the name of the agency. With me on the bill are Ástadur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Yearly Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson, who say they're the members of the Falcons. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - Instead of the words'slash service and knowledge centres for the blind, vision impaired, and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment' to 1 mg. 1st par. The law comes: "The station." 2.g. Instead of the words 'Servest and Knowledge Centre' at 1st. Section 8. The law comes: The station. Section 3. The word of the law will be: a law on the V.C. Section 4. This law already comes into effect.◯ As the report suggests, the name of the institution involved in the services of blind and visually impaired persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment is proposed. So the Agency is now called an unexplored term, and now I'm going to take it for you, a respectable president, one more trip: a service and knowledge center for the blind, impaired vision, and individuals with integrated visual and hearing impairment. Thus, the name of the Agency consists of 13 words and a whole of 144 letters. Most recently, this institution was entitled by the International Service and Rehabilitation Center of the Visual Acuity but went by the name The Center. Over the years, there have been repeated refinements and an increase in the number of letters. It is generally not in the name of other institutions to include in their names each subject of the Agency. Therefore, there is no reason to use this formula only for the name of this institution. The time has come for the Agency to give the standard name, name we all know, and for us who have been privileged to enjoy the ministry of this wonderful service and knowledge center, we will certainly be examined by the channel of Vision. The name Retinal Station illustrates the role of the Agency, which is to assist those who are blind, visually impaired or with integrated visual and hearing impairment. In addition, many people were familiar with the term, since they were running a Sky station from 1987 to 2008, when it began to flow in all directions. This is one of these, which is easy to resolve and easy to simplify, with a simple adjustment to the law No. 160/2008, which applies to the Agency. This is one of the situations in which there is no doubt that it does not cost a dollar. Simply put, it's very simple. I'm just gonna tell you that I've enjoyed the service of this center, which, in fact, made it possible for me to be educated in later years, they've grown to me all the literature so that I could be in law school, the whole reading. In fact, it had taken a long time to wait for that miracle, so you were well in mid - life when it worked, but it worked. This is an institution that surely needs to be put around and followed. I just want to say at the end of the call, once I've made the exact phone call, it's just coming out: "Good morning, the service center for the blind, the impaired vision, and the individuals with integrated hearing and hearing impairment, good morning. This is incredible. A respectable president. I'm just looking forward to and expecting this case to have a complete flight through the council, for we are not equipped to meet the good staff that works there and are asking us to simplify this name and make it something that we all have had to use this institution very well. We'll refer to this bill for what? The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u52	A respectable president. Simple language cannot be expressed in a bill, and it should probably be. I'm not going to repeat that amazing word that's used there, but we're going to use the TV station and we're going to get some. As we know, one of the longest words in the English language is the Road Worker's Locker. It should be easy to see, very simple, cool words. Let's accept this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u53	Madam President. It's pretty funny that you have to move a bill to fix a term for an institution and also a little funny that it's so far. I wonder if those who passed the law, and chose that long name, may have been getting per word. But I'd also like to seek ideas from their partners as to what the long name of the General should be. General, legislation of legalization and counsellors, perhaps a nursing home for dead politicians. I don't know. At any rate, it can be made up a long road work program on the Vadala River River.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u54	A respectable president. It's certainly not the first time we've had at Floki's people recommend this bill, but it'd be really sweet if it was the last one. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security laws and social assistance laws (inadequate-management activities). With me on the bill, Ássta Ásthildur Lóa, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Tómas A. Tómasson and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, are members of the General Assembly of Stockholm. In chapter I, Change in Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, is 1st par. By permission of the president: ...after the 22nd. The law's coming up with a new article, 22nd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's an experiment. Microenergy pensioners are allowed to earn two years of employment and they do not interfere with microenergy pensions, age - related microenergy supplements, income insurance, and special pensions under social legislation. The right to work without defect in the employment sector is to announce to the micro-energy pensioner to the insurance agency that he intends to use that authority or at the later date specified by a microenergy pensioner specifically in his announcement. Notifications will be made 52st This simply says that it's an opportunity to enter the work market for micro-lifers, micro-piercs. The person involved in a insurance agency informs us what day he intends to start work if he is so fortunate, now the most micro-organists, to obtain a suitable job. Go on says: ▪ Despite Article 1. it is permitted that reduced reforms may be total poverty rates higher than average wages in the current profession according to local Haustours report. This is not to say that someone who is an invalid can go to work and take advantage of it so that he is getting lots of money, hundreds of thousands, or any million others from the same time, and will enjoy the rest of social security. The latest information from the Hagroom should be used at each visit to determine the current situation. They will then restrict social insurance as a micro-energy pensioner on the rights of no matter what the employment income accounts for 50% of the total income of the disability donor and the average salary of the profession. Despite the bounds of the b-depth 2 mgr. Section 16. 4 mg. Twenty-two. Unauthorized microenergy evaluation is not permitted based on the performance of microenergy donors during the period when they are authorized to obtain employment without impairment according to 1 mg. During bioenergy re-evaluation, the performance of microenergy donors should not be considered during this period. If the applicant has previously taken advantage of a job permit without impairment, he or she can apply again eight years after a two-year period of 1 mg. completed. Il. section 6; Change in Social Help Act; No. 99/2007, 2nd st. says: ▪ After 3 mgr. Count 9. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Despite the regulations of 3 mg. There should not be a list of earnings for a pensioner under the average service group as determined by Iceland's Habitat Office during the period when he takes advantage of 1 mg. Twenty-two. a Social Security Act. The latest information should be used at any time. In the 3rd. it is determined that these laws will already be obtained. Here, too, we must take to heart the laws of social assistance simply because we do not just live in the wrong. Micro- and social security workers live not only with impairment but also with a decrease on top of it, a chain-mortem impairment as noted. It came, for example. Until yesterday, when we made a recommendation on social security, the VR increased the pay to their partners according to the law on which it is relevant. And then, what happens, Mr. Honorable President? Yes, if you get paid up 10,000 bucks. and, in fact, you're doing social security, and you're taking advantage of a pension fund, and other things like that, you're out of your mind. You're a weak crown against a crown. It went back to 65 bucks, but that is not all the money, unfortunately. It's simply that it's almost all taken out of indirect effect, it's going into the social system, on the mortgage, on everything you get. It's all out of control. There is a person to rejoice at seeing that some of the above ones come into the envelope. But no, he's punished. Despite the small opportunity to rejoice, he is punished. In a paper with the bill submitted to the Council of 150 and 151, the legislature -- I'm saying, for the third time, it's definitely not been passed or I wasn't here. However, the previous councils received reviews of the language of Iceland's Quantum Coalition and the National Organization for Development. The reviewers generally expressed satisfaction with the bill. The bill is now submitted unchanged. The terms of a current social security law are difficult to understand, and it is often difficult for the citizens to understand the procedure of the law. I'm just gonna have to say, with all due respect, a respectable president, it takes a certain specialist to figure out the monster that the social security system is. My good party brother, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, has repeatedly called it the pendant monster, Frankenstein the social security system. You just need experts, and more than that, you need experts on being experts in the social security system to figure it out. But we Kristinsson Ingi and I have had to live on this system and are probably one of the few so - called experts who have experienced it personally, of those who are elected representatives at the International Assembly of Iceland. So I'm honored to fight for this matter like all of us in the Gang of the People. To us and to our hearts, there's only one thing that matters, and only one reason why I stand here and the party of the people: the people first, so the rest. It's the guys who get paid for their disability pensions. 18th par. The law, though, knows that they can expect to be affected by a number of things. Truly, every invalid who watches this and has dared to improve his income a year later and has no understanding that he suddenly owes everything he had tried to earn a year earlier. This is taken up by his presentation that year. His situation remains far worse than when he was trying to save himself. In this way, disability assessments are given temporarily, and many fear benefits if their health deteriorates after they start working. And that is exactly what happens. People want to work, nobody wants to get hurt. No one wants to be in a position not to be able to save himself and always rely on something that is as unfair as it really is with this social security system. But that is how the system is made. I know a number of cases that people have had an accident, but even at a certain point, I think that they are healthy, physically, that they can go back to their job. But perhaps two weeks later, a month or two later, the person may find that this proved wrong. By no means has he recovered, and he will have to retire again and wait for the better. How, then, does the social security system respond? Listen, you just have to start your whole process over again, just apply all over again, no matter how much time it takes, and no matter how antisocial you will be received when you're going to come back. This bill of ours will totally stop all of that from happening. There is no way that we are strengthening the human race and helping people to survive, trying to reach the people who have lost their health, who are willing to go to the job market, if nothing but fear of things that are unknown to us. If I fall back, if I get stuck in my back, if I lose my leg again, if I can't stand up at work, if I can't see this, if I can't see this, I've lost everything, I haven't had alimony, even if it's been low. The prospect of future prospects is not to be worried about the poor if they try to start a job again. It's absolutely the last so far, for you would have thought that the government, which is talking about freedom, which is talking about encouraging people and promoting the human race--I don't know better than the forward party, has driven its policy of investing in people, almost came with the motto of Flokis people, just the whole struggle, and it did quite well, investing in the human wealth. It's a big part of that direction, and it's a huge opportunity the government has to invest in human resources. Those who are experimenting in the workforce should expect a better standard of living, always expect it. It is therefore suggested that micropigs be provided with a special source that they can use when they want to re-start or increase their ability to work. If this experiment does not succeed, the invalid will not have to worry about any further decrease in pensions or disability re-evaluation on the basis of that experiment. Similar measures as we measure here yielded fine results in Sweden. There, some 30% of the participants returned to the workforce, those who participated in this Swedish government experiment to strengthen their human resources and to help disability get back into life. Of all those who tried to do so, more than 30% did not return to the social security system. They are permanent participants. It's called investing in human resources. This is called procreation of the human family, the extracting of those who are really able to work, but they may be suffering severe depression, hopelessness, and discomfort at home. It's hard, respectable president, really hard and it's known, and it's known that as people are longer from being in a social relationship in the workplace and being around others, it's harder to step up and out. It's harder. Therefore, it is being tried to point out that by this method, by not cutting down the social security while people are trying and evaluating their own skills - who is more suitable than the individual himself to evaluate their performance? Are there some bickers in town, experts in the South, one of the committees and advice? It is always being made up of committees to find out how to stir these microbubbles and what to do with their abilities and abilities. In fact, the invalid himself has nothing to say about it. It's kind of that, a respectable president, unfortunately, in this so-called global re-examination of the social security system that will hopefully be in before the season ends, I don't expect it to be attacked right away rather than to legalize the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons, and the message has been clear to the desperate and the less fortunate in society. These are the tenth class of members of society. They don't deliver much in the box. Microchip has been described as a bioenergy burden. We're not challenging enough on the Excels. We're not challenging enough for government funds. That is why the poor are trapped in poverty; they are built into poverty. They're getting paid as much as 248,000 bucks. per month. Who on earth can survive that? Just nobody? Despite the fact that the rice and the present are people, they do not refer to life, a respectable president. It is called having depression, making it impossible for a person to lose hope. He has trouble waking up in the morning. He lays his anxiety on the pillow at night. He can't give his children anything from what we believe normal, sure, in the community we want to call democratic and good society. Sadly, we need to recognize that we are not a community for everyone. We're a community for some people. If we were a community for everyone, it's a clean line that governments would put their arms around everyone and not just some. The job market is to give micropunchers an opportunity to reach the job market. If we could see that more than 30% of the people they did were actually in the good place that they didn't have to consult the social security system again, then it's called reducing the number of microgaps. It has often been said that the number of micropigs has increased inexorably, and I have also asked in this highest public speaker: "How are we going to reduce them, since they are growing so much, without throwing them away before living? How should the number of microorganisms be reduced from that of discarding ourselves before living? How are we going to reduce our numbers on the social security system? Yes, by strengthening us and allowing us to go to work and help ourselves, by giving us the opportunity to evaluate our own skills, by giving microadolescents an opportunity to participate in the community on their own terms, but not because of some Southern specialist sitting around some table and deciding for you whether you are willing to work 30%, 50%, or 70% work and thereby impair your social security. It's not just that the assessment looks like this, as I say here, it's not that governments have assumed that there are no jobs for those who are in poor social security because they're supposed to have some specific percentage in their working capacity. There's just no jobs for these people, no one. A respectable president. We've got everything to win and nothing to lose. These individuals who were either on the advance of social security would grow spiritually. They would grow up in the community, share in it, and come out of the darkness. They would pay their taxes and duties to the community like everyone else, they would no longer be the run - downs of energy and the dingus of the excel document, which so often does not yield enough dollars into the state fund. They would be given an opportunity to share in the community with the rest of us. And if it's not in the hands of the Allied Congress of Iceland and the government here giving all the opportunities it can afford, I don't know what we're here for. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, why we're really elected if it isn't for taking care of all our brothers and sisters in the community. I'm not going to go into more detail about changing the law or any further on the report. I'm going to point out that there are very many poor adults who have children - many of those who have lost their health and who go to hell of depression and discomfort at home, who find it difficult to get out of the house, who find it difficult to get out. It is the hardest thing of all to be able to give your children what other children get, to look up at their genius, and not to allow him to go to music, to have sports, to watch the most precious things you have, and to be powerless, to give his child what is normal, fair, and just in our society. I don't believe it, Mr. Honorable President, until I see it, that the Party of the People, Inga Sæland, will recommend the fourth time in a row for this justice bill. I don't believe it until I deal with it. A respectable president. I'm referring the case to what it is. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u55	President. No one wants to end up in the position of becoming an invalid. That's for sure. Though there are many things to say and to be really critical of how microorganisms have been developed, we still live in a country where we still have this safety network that we have here. However, you must not become a trap. It's what it's all about, giving microchips who feel that their health is improving the possibility of returning from disability instead of tying them into it. You see, it is one thing to find and feel your strength again, to trust in him, and to know that you can trust him, especially if there is as much at stake as you do, that people can simply lose their own forwards. After many years of stress, I have experienced coldness myself. Since the collapse, I felt the need to go to a significant degree of illness because of fatigue and coldness. Still, I was so lucky not to be physically ill in another way. But I can honestly say that it was just a significant step to return to work, and yet I had a good job to walk to and I knew what I was walking about. It was, though, can I do it? Am I up to this? Can I just get back to the same thing? So I can imagine that for people who have even had serious physical or mental illness for a long time, this will be a step, an effort. We are to support people as far as they want to go and go this way. That's what we're supposed to do. It is about being restored without paying for that costly judgment by merely losing its extension that the invalid has overrated his strength or that his will was just greater than his power. When we work out, those of us who try to do something, we don't go directly to the weightiest weights. We start with the lightest, and we work our way up, and we train, and we strengthen ourselves, and we build up our energy. We have to let the microdoers do the same. We must let them build up and support themselves to do so in all the ways that we can, for that is in the best interests of all, and all work by allowing them to do so. No one's going to lose it. So I'm just gonna trust that this bill will be given a course because it's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u56	A respectable president. Once again, we're measuring for bill to legalize social security laws and social assistance laws, unscrupulous occupational workers. This should be so easy that we should not be measured for this matter year after year, but unfortunately it is. The fact is, those who have built up this social security system after the government over the past few decades have built a system that is destructive, a system that tells people, whether because of illness, accidents, or mental problems, that they are not second rate but because of a garbage pack. A system has been built that will do nothing but systematically kill down the will, will, and survival of the individual. People with mental disorders can work. They can't always work, but they're supposed to be able to work on their terms. The government should not say to an individual: Because you have this disease, we will not only punish you but we will trap you into a micro-energy system in which you do not have a chance to support yourself. If you're going to try it by going to work maybe two, three months, six months, then we're going to punish you. It must be a little strange that if you're willing to pay a person minimum advance, which we all know he can't live on, you're ready to pay her year after year, you don't see to say to the person: You can go out to work, we'll pay you forward, you go to work, you work your own skills, get your salary and pay taxes to society. You have meaning. Who's gonna make it? The person and the State, too, because this person, when he is working, pays taxes. While he's at his house and he's not working, he's paying taxes only out of his minimal contribution. Of course, there are many extreme shames in many ways that the person may pay taxes on income, a contribution that cannot be made. But this can be changed. This bill is the first step in allowing the person to find his job on his own terms, work when he can, go back if he can't, just come back. Give him that year. The argument has repeatedly shown that if there is to be any such activity, it will be so popular that everyone begins to cheat into this system. But as I've always said and reiterate it: Those who try to cheat on this system are seriously ill, and as a result, they belong in the system. I haven't met one person who wants to be locked up in this system. We have the most incredible obstacles in the system. The plagues go so wide that it is kind of hopeless to throw it away. What might be the scariest thing about this is that, like the system is built up today, that's 109,000 U.S. dollar. Free income target, but it doesn't tell the whole story. It doesn't count for everything. And if the person has the income from a pension fund it'll cut 109,000 dollars. free-grading goal. If an individual receives other benefits, such as special rent or something, he or she reduces his income. The system is so complex, and the traps are so numerous that each year people get involved with the amazing phenomenon that is the great impairment day. He was August 1st, now July 1st. In this day, terror often begins. It's been a day of terror. You've had a lot of trouble getting letters through the hatch, seeing it, and not getting a cent for a year. Why? Yes, because a person had some small income elsewhere, a income he needs in order to be rescued. The only requirement that we poor people make is to live with others, to live normal lives. With this pendant monster, the system is absolutely hopeless. This bill, however, is taking a step in allowing people to test whether they can reach the workforce. There is also the fact that the workforce accepts people. Sadly, though, one of the scariest things in all of this has been in many ways in labour markets. How sad! I especially remember, and I repeat it over and over, which I thought was very strange at the time, but it was when the economy was at the bus. The first practical step was to resign persons in a wheelchair who were in telephone response. I hope that kind of behavior will be the end of it altogether. We are to make sure that everyone is able to get a job that is appropriate and is paid for. Just giving the individual the opportunity to go out and get a shot and a salary makes it possible for him to raise himself to this poverty limit, the minimum limit for poverty, the least of which is, unfortunately, more of the desperate, to the point of poverty. Government by government has spoken of the need to change the system, to create a committee. I've sat in some of them. I was on the Pétur Blöndalur Committee, and I was on the last committee, and I sort of get a stupid sheep if I'm going to talk about one more committee. I don't know how much and how heavy the data are that have been drawn into these committees to try to convince desperate people that it's okay to throw them into a god and sea without any rescue rings or anything else that can receive them if they can't get into a job market. It's simple. It is possible to create a very simple system, so if you want to try a job market, you can enter the system and in this example you are trying to allow the person to work for two years without impairment and still have a certain safety on what happens when the average is reached. No one's supposed to make money, it's not fair when two people are working, one's invalid, and the other's loose, that the microchip goes high for the other person's salary and income, which is just a regular worker. On the other hand, we must not forget that the invalid always carries a certain problem of disability. It is an expense that cannot be used to reduce the value. It's all that recommends allowing individuals to go to work, everything. I often found myself in this committee's work that the water is often directed to the wrong things. When an adult person who has never been in this system should start telling those in the system how the system is supposed to be working, how it should work, it will lead to a disaster. If I had tried to tell someone what it's like to be in the micropower system, how it works, what the consequences are, and to claim that I have every thread on the record, and that I know everything about how it was rotten, I just say, Guð help me. You never realize this when you get into the system, and you don't get to see the system until it hits you. The system brings down people over and over again, and they begin to realize that they are locked up in this system, which will always be worse and worse while the government after the government does not see that it has to sit down with those who live in this system and so that when the person wants to go out to the labour market, it is done on his terms, not on the basis of the system or the government. We know this from experience. Many of us have seen the movie from Britain as to the results of the system in which the computer always says no. There was no invalid, he could win. As a result, it became clear that he could not live up to that requirement. This is the kind of system we've created. We've maintained a system like this. That's the kind of system we're still maintaining. But with this step, the first step, to accept this bill now in the fourth hour, we're breaking up the system. We are really trying to break up this system that the present government says is going to revise in the fall, maybe next year, maybe never. Let us hope that they will see the light and accept this matter, see to it once and for all that we take this step. It's just a step in itself, but it's a giant step for everyone out there. If we took only 30%, like in Sweden, of those out there who are desperate today, who would try this system, go into this process, and 30% wouldn't return to the disability system, you know what we're talking about? We would be talking about 5,500,000 people. This would be the largest leap ever taken in the affairs of disability. I hope we're accepted and hopefully, as most people try this system and hopefully get out of the system because I can quite tell you that it's very liberating to be released from this system and I'm totally convinced that there's no one out there who wants to be in this system, there's no one out there who's asked to be in it. There's no one out there who for one minute hasn't requested that he escape from the prison that this system has prepared for people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u57	Madam President. Nobody wants to be an invalid, and nobody wants to be an invalid. Fortunately, the support network we have in this country for people who are desperate to help. But it is a support network that also does what most networks do, the ones involved in it. Being caught in such a system and having no chance to get out of it is a system that is highly faulty, sad. It's also sad that trying to point out new ways, new ways to help people get out of the system, it's always stopped because they're going to reorganize the whole system. They're going to create the whole network over again. The net needs to be stitched up again before we can begin to figure out what works and what doesn't work. There are many good ideas about how to get people out of this net. One of them is here. In fact, it's not Stockholm's idea. It's an idea from Sweden. We can't even teach you why. The members of Philly's people on how to create this system completely over and over again. No, we're seeing a good idea somewhere else from the income in here. But then we come to a little flaw, which is right here in those walls. He is, in fact, that good ideas seem to come from the greater part of the world. In this case, I'm asking myself, " Do I need to change what is on the bills we make? ' I think if we were to take names, what are we gonna do? The members of Flock's people out and would say, by permission of the President, it would be approved at the same time. Yes, it is that if we are like the United Kingdom or U.S. Parliament, we need to have some good ideas, and we need to be able to try them. I remember having a conversation with the President Estonian a few years ago, and I was talking to him about innovation. One of the things she said that in Estonia, they gave up their life in Estonia was that they stopped thinking about all the laws as something that lasted forever but that they were ready to make laws, such as. These songs, and say, "Okay, let's do this for two years. It may not work in Iceland as it did in Sweden, but we're willing to try it because we know that the system is broken and we need to find solutions, and we need to be not afraid to try solutions, even when they come out of the water. Councilmen who burn this case because they know it personally. We who are not personally aware of this need to listen and be ready to try, not because the system should be so for centuries, but: "Hey, maybe it's just a good idea, even if it comes from the other side of the room. So I challenge everyone. Councilmen, regardless of the subject's category, I challenge the highest. Minister, look at some good ideas. Not just take the case and put it under a committee, as I'm sorry, with 95% of what comes from the government position, even if there are good ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u58	A respectable president. I'm just gonna start by saying thank you for having some. Inga Sæland and Guðmundur Kristinsson councilmen here in the hall and here at the council. It means that here a world of Congress and the nation all get into the vein of this testing world, this long experience of fighting the system. And who knows this system better than the people who need it? We remember, both of us who have stood just outside the system and especially people who need to be inside, how the discussion has been over the years. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland now only came upon the way the need to reduce the number of microgouts and what that means is. Under it, too many people cheat. There was a notorious 2013 State Review report that had to be retracted and apologized, that was almost a poor translation and transfer of a dance report on the extent of disability. It was run with her from this council, and it was used to hit people: we're here with numbers, there's just too many losers. I'll let myself say for my part, as I feel it, that this has been getting better gradually. It is only beginning to address prejudice, and, of course, it reflects a lot on people who are willing to stand up and fight and say, "I'm in Congress. I got in at the council, and what are you going to do about it? For this number of disability. Okay, let's say there's too many, why is that? The vast majority are in emotional disability, mental illness. This is very often because people have not received appropriate help and have burned out and have just fallen down and down. So I agree that if you are going to take some action to reduce the number of people on disability, you need to start hitting foot, let people get out of this itself, and trust them. In terms of the specific issues here being measured, it is as if the attitude is in the way that it feels very easy to just go out and get a job and be on disability pay while working, that people are just in line to wait for it. There are obstacles. It's not easy. Even if it should only be turned off, fear of change is. There's a fear that if there's a gap open, money will just start running out of government funds. I'm also going to let myself agree with the idea of what happened. Gísli Rafn, son of Ólafsson. If people stop so hard at this, if they don't see changes they don't think they'll know what's going to be, why not try for a while? We're going through an unprecedented period of time, where all systems have been rolling and we're trying to get out of it. Why can't a part of trying to work out just a little while longer and try something new? I'm just going to thank you again for this and for the presence of members of the council here at the council that will come and explain to us their own experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u59	Honorable President, what. Population, good Americans, especially students, all of you who are watching live. My name is TómasTommi and I care about being a student of my own. I bring here a bill to legalize the law on the Scholars' Education Fund, No. 60/2020, about earnings. I'm Tómas A. Tómasson, Ásldur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Inga Sæland and Jakob Frímann Magnússon. 1st par. The bill reads, with President's permission: ▪ The following changes will occur on 2 st. The law: a. Case one. 2 mg. phrases like: It should be noted that while taking into account the student's family size and residence, no matter what the student's salary or his family's family's salary, a stipulation is sufficient for each student to meet the general cost of living. b. 4 mg. phrases like: The implementation of this procedure should be further recommended for the management procedures, including Max of school fees and restrictions relative to e.g. A student's career, without regard to the self - resources of a student. Two. says: ▪2. mg Twenty-six. The law will pass away. And 3rd pars. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Educated is power. The education system is one of the basics of society, where the learning loan system plays a key role. Associating loans have enabled a number of people to obtain education, which would have had to be removed from study and into the workforce. In my own time, I enjoyed a student's loan, which made it possible for me to finish my studies in 1979. Both of my sons worked as slaves through their study, making it nice and good for them, managed their studies, and did well in spite of hard work. My current grandson, 17 years old, is working hard at school. And I'm saying this because I don't think work needs to interfere with the academic achievements. I strongly emphasize that students can work indefinitely as they study, for this means nothing to the State. It is unmistakably that increasing access to education without regard to economics reduces class distinctions and increases social value, but the academic loan system is far from perfect. Study loans depend on conditions, and little has to go wrong so that students may lose a brother's contribution. One of the main barriers to students who have to rely on advanced education loans is the rules for breaking up for students' income. If a student's income is beyond the cost limit of distribution rules, education funds will be seriously impaired. This is particularly burdensome in view of the fact that the growth of education in general is not enough to pay for food, clothing, and shelter. A single student living in a student park can get a living loan of sums of 196.040 k. a month but must pay 99.99.99 k. ... rent. In view of the social security standards, it may be estimated that a typical student's expenses are 244,492 k. per month. That's a difference of 48,452k. on progress of a student and expenses. That's only $1.4.000. every year. If a student has a full - time job for three months each summer with 351,000 bars. In a month's pay, there's little or nothing left for further revenue over the course of study, less than 40,000 bucks. during a month until income starts to affect the progress of the education fund. If students study, they pay taxes, so the government benefits. It is clear that in the following years, 4 to 5 years, it will be necessary to import 10◯15,000 foreign workers just to meet the needs of tourism. Travel is actually one of the foundations of the nation's currency. Students who are interested in serving as hotels and restaurants have the potential for making money. We need to import fewer foreign workers, and students can have a nice life if they are to work without end. If we assume that education is a social interest investment, we should make sure that education is available to all without regard to the economy. So much money reduction, when the basic progress is as small as you can see, involves discrimination on the basis of economics. Studying should be available to all, not just those who can rely on financial support from their families. Without intervention, the danger is that education will soon be for the children of the wealthy, as was real in the years before. Then it was only rich individuals who were allowed to go out to school, often to Copenhagen, to study law, and other subjects. So I stress that students are allowed to work as hard as they want and to be able to study. Not only do they get extra money to live by study but they gain the strength and knowledge that benefit them when they go out into their secular career after they study. A student who has always worked with his education, is in some way more accustomed to work, and is often much faster than ever to take on the work he intends to do in the future because he has worked with the study. - I'll call it a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u60	Madam President. Despite the fact that about 30 years have passed since I took a student's loan, little has changed. The students are still expected to release death from shell and live at home free. To this day, we know all people who have been able to accept many weeks of toast and noodles and when they tried to earn extra money just to shake their diet, they were rewarded with smaller loans and more noodles. These years, although it was, the cost of living loans has probably increased more than tripled since 1990. However, this is still true, so the contribution delivered to students does not reach half of the amount that is considered to be the minimum for foreigners who want to be allowed in this country. A special loan for housing is only 60% of the rent price at the cheapest student park and half of the cost of the cheapest studio store in the new student field. The circumstances of students vary. Some people are in a rented market; others are in parents' homes. At the same time, many have started a family. There are different student situations to take into account so that the system covers all of them. The children's grants offered by students of education, e.g. can hardly cover basics such as high school expenses, food, and clothing for the children. Students who do not have a strong financial backland have to work with study. If noted, the Eurostdent team is very large or about 72%, because there are 72% of Icelandic students working with a degree of education. That's a much higher proportion than their coal in the North countries. However, as soon as they start working along the study, their progress is impaired. Today, students have only about 1.4 million per year, despite the increase in the new distribution rules. So it is important that student loans are removed as suggested in this bill. But we also need to remove the need for students to work with school, for full - time education is needed. This requires a dramatic rise in basic progress to make sure that it is effective during the course of study. If students choose to work, they should not make money to influence the straddling loans. Who really believes that during the summer of the year, people can scrap so much money together that they are sufficient for the nine months of the year? Thus, we need to increase the share of the system and reduce the number of loans to be paid off for decades. One of the most reasonable investments the government can make is shortening the debt that students take with them in their lives after school. Such actions are something that would not be new, but they have been seen for example. recently in that conservative country of the United States, where students were being cut down and changed and eliminated. Maybe we can learn something from the Americans. It is important that we make it possible for students to get on their feet, to buy their first apartment, and to pursue further studies in a foreign country despite making the wise decision to study. This view, that students have to suffer from studies, live in the present, that students have to work full - time in summer so that they can escape with only a small amount of full - time education during the winter, a shortsighted attitude. Students are required to have time to focus on the study and to participate in the university community. You see, college is not just a book reading and an assignment. It's a society with few people. Spending time with people with different interests from different university institutions and using ideas is a form of productive thinking and innovations that have developed in many of the largest companies in the country. So it's not just students who are missing out on a lot if they can't participate in the college community, but Iceland's everything. Times have changed, circumstances have changed, studies have changed, and the future demands changes. The loan system has to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u61	A respectable president. This is a bill that has been given to legalize the student's education fund, pay, an original. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson. I'll take my heart to this bill, because it's all part of the Gangs' Congress. To have to contribute this bill to allow students to work along with studies, those who want to do it is, in fact, amazing. Inadequate loans, that you get less loans for trying to work to improve your benefit, to borrow less money. The money's not being given, it's a loan. Why, if someone wants to save himself and gain more money by winning, why on the earth must abdicate money that is being lent? It's one of those penalties we've set up, which is pretty weird and kind of the first stupid award, like with many systems, the social security system, and more. This is quite remarkable because if we view those who want to work, students who want to work by study, what does that mean to them? Yes, it does give them income, and it is better off. This too results in their knowing the workforce. Isn't that just cool? Students who are going to work and willing to work and who can work find experience in a job market. Should we punish them for that? It's just stupid, it's fucking stupid. We have such an amazing, defective system that sometimes you get completely dumb about it. And like all the weird things in this system, it's also fit to have the wrong implementation. It is not started, as should be done in the social security and this system and all the others, to calculate what a person needs to live a decent life. Once we find it out, we pay it or loan it, and we even make the strength to soften the blow when the person goes to the labour market. But we do not punish these people for their hard work. At the same time we have this kind of criminal system, they're screaming at people's jobs, they need people. I just saw yesterday that they didn't just need people, they didn't need houses, they needed everything, they were working at Eels, but they couldn't get people to work because they didn't have a place to live. I ask myself, " How many of the people who are there trying to get a job are students who have a place to work and would like to work if it gave them some benefit? ' We have to get out of this box and start thinking about what's normal, not always having these fences and obstacles that we're making. I hope this case is accepted. Hopefully, the government will start to see the light, and hopefully they will begin to grasp some of these stupid traps in these stupid systems that they have built up and put them in order to have them built up for people to help people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u62	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come up here for a minute to be happy about this bill. Another amazing impairment that doesn't really leave anything behind unless everyone loses. To think that Iceland's government funds are controlled so that the benefits of giving people the opportunity to work and return their taxes and duties to society are not seen. I don't get that kind of financial control, so that's all I'm saying. It has come to pass, and we know that there are enormous differences between individuals, not just because of farming, but because of the economic situation. That a person who doesn't have a powerful backland that can help him in his studies, and we need to do that - as if we're making a record of disfellowshipping from high school. We're looking at such things and the like of human deaths that would otherwise, if everything were as good around them as possible, probably continue into life, into the community with its diploma on top of the pocket. Why on earth, a respectable president, is it tolerated here to allow students to be neglected for business purposes? Since 2009, the default target just rose above the cost market, which has never been changed ever since. I'm not going to give this long speech, I'm just saying, given the gain, the appearance of justice and, in fact, the financial one - especially if it now seems to be the main subject of the high-priority Council and the government, especially the highest. Secretary of finance, thinking about how to use the crowns, perhaps it is time to put your arms around a matter where it does not cost a dollar to meet the people, since it does not require a dime to ease their lives and make it easier to do so. I also agree with what. Rafn Of course, we should not allow people to succumb to student loans to a fiery death. At the end, I'd like to mention an adult, a hardly 80-year-old man who asked me: "Inga, could you take this for me to the minister of this matter and ask him if he can't take away the rest of my student loans, because I have only 268,000 dollars. in a month, and this is us, me and my old wife, who are now a total patient, overwhelmingly difficult. I wish I could have said to him, "My dear friend." I'm this minister, and I'll fix this for you right now. But I might be later, who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Tómas Andrés Tómasson for the bill he recommended earlier. I don't think there's any other way to agree with that bill. Tómas is a discerning man, as we have come to know who has worked with him since the last election and in their behalf. I don't think any of us have realized this, and of course it's our job here in this room to smooth-cut things. The reason why it's like that may be traced back to the time when here was a mystery, it was almost like in Argentina or in the Third World, I think we've got over 100% in the worst of cases, and then it was a privilege to borrow a loan over our heads. I can only believe that all good and wise senators will welcome this virgin bill from Tómas Andrés Tómasson Thomasson and pat it through committees and in payment here at the Hall of Congress. Congratulations, my dear Tómas. I can't help passing a compliment on the conduct and conduct of the senators who have expressed themselves here. Then, of course, I'm referring to Tómas and my party brothers here who have expressed themselves, but I'm also talking about the fine speakers who have stepped into the chair here today, anyway. The men of Pirathah, Gísli, Rafn the Ólafsson of Olaph, and Auður the son of Svansson. Now, I'm going to admit that I was no special fan of Pirata when that group began to walk, for I felt that he was focused on the interests of musicians and musicians, that he was directly to them. But I have often found myself pleasantly surprised at the way those in Pirata have taken place here at the council. I know from first term to what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was among those who guided new members of the people from Floki and taught them the d'Hondt system and so on. I have not heard a much better concluding statement made by a member of the General Assembly than the one that was published just before the end of the last council by Hrafn Gunnarsson, where he spent the last minutes to be silent. paritaprevir The Inga Sæland Land of the Gang of the People, who praise her touching work that everyone sees. It is not only a fire of God burning through the senator but it speaks Inga the Sæland spirit directly from the heart, so everyone notices and reaches even as she did in her speech the last time she spoke about children growing up in poverty, and she has personally experienced it. Then I'm going to say how Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, huh? Pirata's senator, was the first to comfort the senator, show her compassion and harmony, and how he handles us here at Flokim the people, as Halldór Auðar Svansson has also done. I want to thank them wholeheartedly, adding that there is a long time in the first generation and that the apple rarely falls far from the tree. A respectable president. Because it's late in the evening, we can go a little free at the end of this saying, just briefly. I was delighted to learn that Rafn Hyn Ólafsson is the grandfather of one of the greatest general general members of the Icelandic history, Einar Olgeirsson's son. Auður Svansson's son is my former professor at the University of Iceland, Svanur's Kristjánsson, and Auður daughter of Styrkársdóttir. I was so happy when I first met those good men as well as I described them here. I also rejoiced that Sister Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson herself is Kristín Gunnarsdóttir Kristinasdóttir, one of six Pirata members here at the council, whose father is, of course, my companion for many years, one of the leading music champions of Iceland's history, Gunnar the Smári Helgason. Now that we're out for traditional talk in a speech chair, I couldn't pass, as soon as I sincerely wish Tómas Andrés Tómasson to congratulate you on this wonderful bill that I don't believe but that we're going to pass, thank you very much. The members of Piratha for their disturbance, and so will I finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u64	Madam President. I recommend here for bill to legalize health insurance legislation, No. 112/2008, with later changes (cure surgery and dental resuscitation as a consequence of congenital defects). With me on the bill, the whole party of Flock's people is the Loveldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - The following changes will be given at 1 mg. 20. The law: a. In the second language, the expression "born defects " is used. ... willpassout. b. Adding to this is a new challenge, as follows: This will include health insurance to dentists and dentists who have been negotiated at the same time. IV. a result of inborn defects. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ I refer to the bill report, by permission of the President: The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature, so I recommend it for the second time, but it did not work out strangely. The bill is now submitted unchanged. Current legislation does not guarantee sufficient support from health insurance to cover the costs of dentistry and dental treatment. This is because it is in current legislation that certain measures are required because of the serious consequences of congenital defects. The evaluable criteria proposed to support the absence of payment rights for all those born with a cleft palate and/or a broken lip. A group of children are not now able to get on to action because the cost is high and Iceland's health insurance is not involved in costs, as the consequences of congenital defects in these designated children are not serious enough and therefore are not considered necessary. A respectable president. I can't believe I'm reading this, but this is Iceland today. Children born with cleft palate and/or cleft lip lesions need to undergo severe pain. It is therefore unannounced that government is making it even more difficult for them. Therefore, health insurance is suggested to include dentists and dentists because of congenital defects regardless of their severity and the need for surgery. In other words, without anyone counting if the operation is needed after nightfall or after morning awakening and counting whether it's bad enough or not. Ex-fiancé. Healthcare Minister, Sóggis Svavarsdóttir set a regulation to try to handle this in some way, but unfortunately, the Regulation is not far enough. Still, it was a good, valid attempt to make things better, for it was a loud appeal at the time outside the community, for it was obvious to all who observed at the time that here were children who were born with a split palate or a cut catch, to be born with defects they didn't ask for, and to have the Icelandic health system with the health insurance of Iceland on the tip of it, did not pay for operations on the children to help them with dental rights, or other things, refused to pay. This bill, however, prevents any Ministers from considering this more in a legal way. There is no need to doubt this further; any child needing this law will be assured of the right to get the help they need because of failings, due to dental pathology, away from the parents'economic situation. One more issue, a respectable president, recommended by the party of the people here, is willing to help those who really need help. If they are not even able to control helpless children and help them when they are growing up, and thus prevent them from entering the future in the suffering that their birth defects have given them, if governments are not willing to help such children to the future, much of this is a difficult government. It is the government, a respectable president, who is ashamed. So let's hope that a party of the people doesn't have to measure this bill for the third time. There are very few children we have to put our arms around and live in this misery that this bill will take on and will help them to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u65	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with later changes (cure surgery and dental resuscitation as a consequence of congenital defects). If you read this bill, you won't believe that you're in the council hall in 2022, in an empty room, measuring for a bill to deal with these inborn defects of babies born with a cleft palate or a broken lip. I spoke of an incredibly stupid system here, but I think having the law and the law as it is today is a world record of nonsense. I don't understand the point behind saying to a child with inborn defects that its defect, its cleft palate, or her lip is somehow wrong. When this case came to the council at its time and was to correct it by law, you had somehow felt that even though the Regulation was trying to handle it, it couldn't be done because somehow it did not find that there was an accurate description of the defects that the baby was born. But to what extent does the child's failings have to be accurately described? Is it not enough for your child to have faults? And is it not enough that this defect causes distress and discomfort? Does it have to be described? No, all you have to do is fix it and make sure that Iceland's insurance insurance pays what needs to be done to fix this problem with the child. It's so simple that we shouldn't have to stand here in this chair and try to put up a bill to get the current government to see that a child sufferings and is ill because of inborn defects doesn't have to. Their parents may have some difficulty getting the defect fixed, and if they want to do so, it may cost them so much money that they do not live up to it. What should be done? Does this mean that the child needs to suffer? I say, this is a disgrace to us and there's something wrong in our society if this bill isn't approved and it's right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u66	A respectable president. I'm gonna keep this brief, end up short. I'm going to agree with what's been attributed here clearly. I've been checking the law and the regulations and I'm seeing as much as it's unnecessary fences. A problem is a fault, and the nature of the matter is something that needs to be corrected. The law says this has to be negotiated at Medical Security, it's another reserve, it doesn't go through anything. A minister is permitted to set further rules for the project. The strict binding of it and the fact that it needs to be taken into account of what is serious and what is not absurdd. I don't think there's any more to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u67	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws. We're talking about connected parties in a fishing road. With me, there is the group of Stockholm, Ásundur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. 1st par. That's what he says, by permission of the President: ◯4. mg 13th par. The law says: Involved persons are counted as: 1st Particles, where one person, or attorney, is directly or indirectly at least 20% of the stock or stock money in the other person or has the corresponding part of the voting rights. The former party is considered a mother's company, and the latter is a daughter's company. 2. Participants, where one member, an individual, or an attorney has the right to appoint more part of the members of the other person, have the authority to make decisions for the individual's interests, on the basis of agreement or authority to commit to the other person, may, in the power of their vote, prevent other proposals from accepting despite the support of other votes, such as the requirement for mutual votes. The same is true if the patient is associated with the patient's disease course. Number 1 or 3. has the same authority as the one mentioned in paragraph 1. 3. legislators, such as members or members of the same party, individuals or lawyers, or those associated with them at the same time. 1 or 2. count, holding more than 20% of the share money, stock money or voting rights in both or all the lawyers end up with each individual holding object at least 5% of the stock, stock money or the vote number in the relevant legislation. The same is true if the person or party, persons or persons or lawyers, or those associated with 1 or 2. a number. which owns the stock, stock or voting rights in the legislature, including the relevant terms of stocks, stocks or voting rights in other legislations. 4. For the property and voting rights of individuals in law. 1,◯3. a number. Also considered as part of the partner's property and voting rights, relatives and spouses in front of the bone or other sides and members that are related in the same way by adoption. Section 3. The word of the law goes like this: ...after 14 C.E. There's a new article in the law, 14 pars. a, as follows: A fish lab can demand individual companies, business groups and organisations to which this law applies to all the information necessary to consider the individual issues. Information can be demanded orally or in writing and should be given within the appropriate amount of time established by the Agency. A fishing room can have the same conditions as in 1st. The need to obtain data for observation. They shall be delivered within the right time established by the Agency. In their work, a fishing agency may demand information and information from other governments, including competitive authorities, tax authorities, and tax authorities, regardless of their confidentiality. A fishing room can also place a obligation on members of 1st. to regularly inform the Agency about relevant issues in the implementation of these laws. A fishing room can give such instructions by public announcement. A fish lab can make needed observations at the company's work station and organization and lay down data when there are compelling reasons to believe that these laws or laws have been violated by the government. In the course of action, the legal requirements for the treatment of the criminal body should be followed for the search and maintenance of items. And section four. It is said that this law will be obtained on January 1, 2022. A respectable president. I'm going to point out a little piece of paper with the bill. The bill was previously submitted to the Council of 150th and 151, that is, the third time we recommend it here. It is being pushed like a grouse at the stop to prevent it from rising to the surface who is actually linked to people in the fishing grounds. To ensure effective competition and support the collection of data on a few hands, there are laws on the control of fish fishing regulations that require that the combined stock department of linked parties not exceed a given ratio of total resources. It is important to ensure active competition for fishing. Active transport competition contributes to the greater protection of consumers and employee as well as the better use of resources. The fish stocks of Iceland are one of the nation's major resources, so it is important to ensure that access to that resource is not collected on a few hands. Of course, it's important to make sure, but it's probably getting late in the ass because I don't know any better than our sea resources have just come to a few hands. What a joy it would be, then, if this bill were to be given further attention! I'd also like to state that there are other groups of government opposition, I just think that we're all in attendance, as well as in Piratar and the United States, with some extension of trying to approach the Community legislation so that it's moved even further up on the table. If I have to measure this one more trip I guess, because the people on the bridge haven't been replaced and the security agents who've been protecting the water main with their mouths and their jaws, it'd be a pleasure to take us all together and come here with one powerful bill. The current legislation is about a wide range of problems when it comes to definitions of stakeholders and monitoring warrants for Fish Institutes are significantly limited compared with other monitoring authorities. A report on the activities of the Fish Room included a reexamination of the Kingdom Ministry. up to the fact that a fish lab does not know whether there is a definite and regular link, it is totally relying on the resources of the hands. - Can you imagine? You can only do your own research; whatever pranks you do with the law, you just get to study it yourself, according to this. This has not been considered a successful, respectable president. It also stated that the Fishing Room believed that it was really impossible to determine whether there was a link due to an actual authority to which the law was too estimating. This bill suggests some changes that aim to further explain whether there is a link between the two parties and to support the monitoring warrants of a fish lab so that the Agency can investigate in an appropriate way whether there is a link between parties. If the bill is approved, the Fishing Room will be able to monitor the development of resources too much and take action if so. Thus, it will be better to ensure that the nation's resources do not accumulate too few hands with associated negative consequences. A respectable president. I'm not going to go out into the individual articles of the bill, but its origin naturally follows that we are here with a set standard, where one of the same preparations and the chain is not to be shared in more than 12.5% of the country's resources, it should not be able to say that they have more fishing right than that. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. I misspoke. Of course, they have nothing in the sea, he is the share of the nation. We all know that, don't we? However, in this case it had been reported that there was a set project that would have been much more important, more than 15%, more than 3%, than the law expected, on which this project was on the other side of the catch. It's like this: What do you have to do with people? What's a mother's company? What's a granddaughter's business? What's the social security number? How can you get this over to one and make it look like you don't have anything in it and all? A respectable president. I hope that this bill will be examined with optimism and a smile. Well, we're talking about our lot, and it's worth the law given by the Allied Congress on the article, about the seabed, about those who have access to it, to be really respected, and this bill is one of the things to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u68	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and support this bill about related parties in the fishing road. When they're talking about these connected parties, that they don't exist on the surface as to how it is, I always remember the collapse of the bank when I was able to get through a document showing connected parties in the financial sector. I've never seen such a dense spider web in my life; the idea of how to make a relationship, and also try to make sure they weren't connected, was incredible. I say for my part, it's a great bill. I hope it goes through, and hopefully we'll learn once and for all to have everything on the surface. If we cannot know exactly who are involved in the fishing system, it cannot be monitored exactly as to. Simple language: All linked parties on the table and make sure that those who are being monitored can handle it more easily in order to avoid excessive compression on one hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u69	A respectable president. I just feel like I'm being presented in the platform. It's wonderful. Here is the highest platform in the country, and it is priceless to come here and be able to speak for good things and keep fighting. This bill targets our resource, our energy, our inactivated energy, our future energy. How should we hold her? Of course, we're talking about the climate problem. We're talking about our green energy. This bill is designed to draw close to the possibility that individuals or legislators can collect activation options. Now I have a term that I missed out in the campaign. I collect these dishes all over the country. With me on the bill is the whole party of the Gangsters. I'll never get tired of saying their names, they're so beautiful, and hopefully it'll end because you all know them by heart. They are Ájuldur Loa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Yearlyman's Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómasson Atisson. 1st par. The bill says the following changes will occur in Annex 1 of the Act: Water power plant, installed with a power source of 200 kW or more, falls into category A. A wind power plant, with a power source installed at 1 MW or more, falls into Class A. 2.g. This law already comes into effect. According to a bill report, this case was previously delivered, and now note, in 149., 150., and 151. In other words, I'm measuring for this, probably the most natural case in the world, for the fourth time. This is an example of the activities of the Parliament, an example of how work in a government stand is swept under the carpet or thrown into the trash and not done anything with it. It's sad. The bill is now submitted unchanged but updated with regard to the implementation of new laws on the environmental assessment of projects and programmes. In current legislation, a water power plant, installed with 200 kW or more power power sources, falls into force that uses power to generate electricity by installed power 1MW or more into category B in Annex 1. According to 1st mg. Annex 1 shall evaluate projects matching with Class B in each case and consequently the evaluation of environmental impact in such projects is not required. Action in the construction and management of the fallways and cigars may have a major impact on the environment and the natural environment. Dissatisfaction prevails with the current program where the activations of less than 10 MW electrical forces have been allowed without environmental assessment. Then wind mills with 1 MW can cause a variety of environmental disturbances. It is therefore suggested that all hydropower plants installed at 200 kW or more power sources using wind power to generate electricity by installed electricity 1MW or more fall under category A in Annex 1 and implementation will always be subject to environmental assessment. A respectable president. We're proud to show it in our actions, the party of the people, how green we really are, how true we are of our nature and our resource, our energy. We want to protect her. We want to be careful. It is not normal for all of these inducers listed here for environmental assessment. I hereby refer to this bill to what. The pro board, hoping that I don't have to make a recommendation on this for the fifth time on behalf of the Gangs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u70	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this fine speech and the excellent bill presented here. I'm celebrating all this talk about energy. I think we're just in that place today that we need to discuss energy issues, whatever form and whatever degree it is. This is very important and needs to be discussed. There's one or two things I wanted to know a little bit better about at what. Senator. Like I read the bill, and what? A senator came into his speech, centered on putting all the continuum transfunctioners, these tiny, so - called, environmental foods. All right. In his above - mentioned speech, there was a debate. A senator's need for bonding that members are not collecting activations, and I can totally share their concerns with the senator. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator how this bill prevents it. I don't see it, but it can be that it's just my lack of knowledge. Something else I'd like to think about is that in recent years, we have learned that farmers, especially farmers, and those in cold areas, are going to these pitholes in order to get into less expensive and safer electricity, which is a good thing. These microintendents are today authorized to report to the Agency for review and permission from both licences and expert organisations. I'd like to know: A senator that if we're pushing the system from what we're doing, won't it scare people away from going to these minors?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson for the counter. No, I'm not so worried about that. In view of today's situation and what our situation is today, we feel that the most natural thing in the world is that these activations go to environmental food. This is not the narrow fact that the particles can't activate the town brook on earth for their own energy production. This is not the case that is growing, and I don't think in any way that the system is gaining weight. I believe, however, that this prevents the tendency that was clearly seen when the bill was created at its time - three or four years ago, you have stopped counting how many times you have recommended it - that men were gathering in minor activations. We even knew that one of the same party had requested 99 licenses to do so. It seemed like they wanted to take advantage of the fortresses we're trying to round here were in the so-called B class, which meant they didn't have to undergo environmental assessment. In the people's Floki, we love Iceland, our nature and energy, that we don't think that what's in this form, whether it's water or wind power workers, is going to have environmental food.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u72	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. So I understand that it is the evaluation of those who suggest that by placing these inducers and activation options for environmental assessments, these persons will reduce the potential or the likelihood that they, in line, will probably be larger and large, apply for activation licenses, i.e. if you want to undergo environmental assessment. So that's the reason for the case, if I understand why. A senator is correct. I see why. That's how a senator works. I went and looked into it. As we noted earlier, I'm interested in electronics and sharing with others. A senator will love our country and nature, which is very important. We who live near nature, in the region, know it, and appreciate its value. If a person is going to start a small operation, the procedure is to start today that you cannot go and shovel your ditch and set your generator into the creek and start creating electricity. You need a contract, which is legal, you need a building permit, you need a activation license, you need a work permit, if the activation is greater than 2 MW, and you need a fish lab permit. You need to consult the National Institutes of Nature, Nature, Weather Service, Fish Service, National Health, Environment, Electricity Transporter, Landowners, Vega and Ice Energy, or Icelandic Energy Research. It's just that I'm wondering, at least. Mr. President, if we've already got a system that puts our mind around this thing, we're going into a lot of systems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u73	A respectable president. I thank Vagn the son of Stefánsson for his second stand. No, we don't think that's enough. Despite the wind. A senator had counted a pile and a lot of all kinds of permits applications that had to be sent in, I know that - yes, I can get myself a little truffle, or whatever it is, at my cottage to get some electricity into the shed. I know that now, I don't have to go through this mess. But for all that amount of applications, let's take it easy. We're here to talk about moving this from Class B to Class A so that we can still add one of the baits to the person; he needs to bring his activation, his expected environmental assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u74	A respectable president. I'm going to move my first bill, bill to legalize the change in telecommunications Act, No. 81/2003, with subsequent changes, cell service on highways Transporters are besides me Áslildur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Inga Sæland and Tómas Andrés Tómasson. This bill is based on my own experience in traveling around the country I've been doing for decades. I was amazed that the highly sophisticated Icelandic nation, believed to be at the top of a technicality, computerized, mobile, and modern - day network, is really in 2022 to be at the point where normal telephone contacts cannot be maintained. Ten minutes after you drive out of Akureyri, you will break off contact with the person to whom you are talking, ten minutes after leaving Siglusar, as well as with Eglís locations. In the case of Egress you are on your feet, let's say the most or the most common accident site in the area around you. So it's a matter of safety. It's a matter of modernization, of take-off and long-term time. It can't be too much for the well - being nation of Iceland to make sure it is a continuous telephone and network network around the country, just like a road connection, like an electrical relationship, and before. Surprisingly, if you're talking to the United States or we're working abroad, the relationship is much better for some reason. I quickly explain what is wanted here, and I really hope to walk by and take effect. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - After the 1st case. 3 mg Twenty-niner. The law comes a new sentence, and it says, An all - time service also includes an ongoing mobile contact on highways, cr. Section 8. No. 80/2007. 2.g. After 1st mg. 20. The law comes up with a new sentence that says: A telecommunication office is permitted to turn up a telecommunications company and operate telecommunications initiatives in order to secure cell phone service on highways, cr. 19th gross In the 3rd. reads: This law is valid for March 1, 2022. So we need to have faster hands. A report says: Iceland is a natural problem. Julks, rivers, mountains, and sand provide challenges that are difficult to overcome. Just a half century ago, the ring road was completed. In this way nature regularly reminds itself of storms, earthquakes, and fire - spillings, causing a thousand pieces of water to flood out. It is necessary to link the country with sound means of communication. It is not enough to build a road system, it must also ensure communication on the roads. The safety of road users is very strong when communication cannot be relied upon. During the past few decades, communication has improved greatly in the region, but still others still remain seams. The technology is there to pop into the holes, but telecommunications companies seem not interested in the important task, at least So far. If a telecommunication company does not see a profit chance in securing national security then governments must intervene and eliminate the market failures. There are already legal sources for government intervention when private members do not fulfill their social duties if they contribute to the relevant enterprise. For example, a remote exchange agency can force a telecommunications company to offer public services or to provide competitors access to communication systems through communication. The bill suggests that there will be an all - time communications service to ensure an ongoing cell phone contact on the highways of the country. To ensure follow-up, a telecommunication agency will be granted permission to provide permission for the telecommunications company to come up and run telecommunications in specific specific locations as needed. The meeting meetings held in conjunction with green books on communication can be seen in a number of comments on a short cell phone connection made by representatives of the country's area. These comments can be looked up during conferences from the meeting of the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport in 2021. This is a long time. This is part of the course of quality of life, of course the rights of those living in this country, the country around us. It is my hope that this will be done well, and of course you need to follow up and consider the matter on a relevant committee, an environment and transportation committee, which has these issues at its table. I really hope that this general peace of mind was followed by this general peace of mind for the well - being and benefit of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u75	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here and thank you. A senator for putting in his first bill, and I'd like to agree with what it says. The affidavit you ever had. A senator, of the bad cell phone relationship in the northeastern part of the country, is, unfortunately, far too well known, and is completely unsurpassed in 2022. A senator came in. I agree completely with what the senator is saying here. In fact, it is strange to think that at the same time we are creating a system called 5G - a highly positive and positive development, and I hope that things are going any faster, there is a great need - there is not a cell phone service and that keeps phone contact in many parts of the country. There is naturally some error in what needs to be corrected, and we should see our dignity in doing so. I totally agree with what. A senator in it. There is, however, one thing I would like to point out. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has examined, or at, the work that was put on this bill, the Tetracommunications kit. It is no less a matter of safety that Tetra equipment, which is the police communications system, ambulances, and other operators, who are also starving in the country, is secure and secure. These people are often working in areas where the relationship is not guaranteed and their jobs are very difficult, if not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson for his entry. I'll admit that somehow I made myself aware that there was a much stronger and more continuous relationship on the Tetra system than in the public. If it isn't so that it's safe and safe for the police and the ambulances and the rest of the country around us, it could be said that this was an even more serious case than I had realized. I'll give myself that I and what. paritaprevir Stefánsson's Vagn can agree that at the same time this patch of holes in a system would be necessary, of course, to ensure that the employees who are to protect us in the future will be secure and secure everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u77	A respectable president. I just want to thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, that was exactly what I was looking for and was wondering, when I read the bill, if it was not a song, if it remains to be worked on, to add this into that, that these Tetra agents are guaranteed. You see, it goes together. This is about putting this transmitter up and putting electricity in these places. Without the power, the transmissions don't work, so it'll be okay if the operators and the Tetra senders are installed at the same time. That's a project that needs working on the 911 line. I know that both the emergency line and the telecommunications companies have been trying to map these black spots and I know myself that the police have been doing it in their districts, going through the roads and checking out where these spots are, so they should be lying where they are. Therefore, for those going on this project, there should not be much problem, finding where these spots are, and trying to seal up the net so that those gaps we talk about are not there. That's when we're up to the power, which is related to this. Often we are talking about a spare dose. We've been through a lot of bad weather when the power of this shipment and the backup power comes in, but it may not be enough for 24 hours. [[The president calls.]] Since the weather is depressed, it may be difficult to find these places to load. I got it. I got it. I'm impressed by a senator on this matter. All too often we see in difficult situations and in difficult times, we have no relationship, and that is not acceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these indications is precious. This makes things more serious. This is even more urgent and more important when we see that the country's well - being, the police, the ambulances, rescue teams, and others, are also living in a dreary system. I thank you for the good and precious tip that I will present to the committee that will discuss the matter. It's very precious to have access to this bill from the executives, and I'm grateful for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u79	A respectable president. We're here for the first bill of what? paritaprevir Michael Magnússon's Jakob, Frímann's wife, and kind of hit him with the head in telephone and telecommunications, i.e. that in the year 2022, we are in the condition of a mobile telephone reception on the highways of our country. Hv. paritaprevir Stefánsson's Vagn, which came up against him, came to security, Tetra, and it sort of tells itself that it should be a matter of course to put in as a change in this bill, should be the least of the cases in the world. It should be normal to keep in touch, it is unnatural not to be in touch. I've been aware of this, too, when I've been driving through the highways, and it's caused problems in the absence of a relationship. I was a police officer in my day, and then we often got into the weirdest of cases, and the relationship could be so gloomy that people could get in the position of not being in a relationship, which is, of course, a serious police security issue. At the same time, we send a astronaut to the moon, and we're in touch with it. We've got satellites all over the place, we're in touch with them. But we cannot be in touch when it comes to police safety or when it comes to a national circle or on the highlands. It tells us that there's something wrong, and I hope this bill is going to cause this case to go down and we'll sort it out. And with the power or power outage, the way those cases are and these dead spots in the system -- I don't think there's any question that it can be solved today. I don't think that's a big problem. Let's watch solutions. It's just a great thing, and I think the whole world of Congress can agree that we can get it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u80	A respectable president. Hv. A council and a good nation. My name is Tómas, called Tommi. I'd just like to put some words in your mouth about this wonderful bill next to you. paritaprevir Jakob Magnússon's friend James. I was raised with black fats, phone calls, phone numbers at my grandparents' home, where I was raised in 4595. Then there was 14595, and then there was 5514595, etc. I remember that in 1972, I lived in Hafnarfjörður. I had a lot of phone calls, and after a lot of numbers, I got an Extra 10 meters [10 m] long by the phone. It was a luxury. In 1982, I smuggled into the country some car phone, so I put a large antenna on my chimney in my home, and it spreads like that in Reykjavík, something like that. That was the first car phone I think came to Iceland. I was a big cock. In 1989, I received my first cell phone, which was shaped like a cigarette carton. Then they had been walking about with little bags, Ómar Ragnarsson was famous for walking about with a little bag that had the phone in, he had her on his shoulder. But I bought a phone there, which was the smallest phone on the market, like a cigarette carton. I remember I was stopped on the street to look at this new pant. Here I have an iPhone 13 Pro, the latest technology and science. That's where we are today. If you're in a car, you're not supposed to talk on the phone, but you've got new equipment now, so you can just say your phone number to your car, which is already connected to the car, and he's calling for you and then you just talk. I'm saying it's not long before we're getting our ears busted with little speakers, and then, in our cheeks, we're going to have a little moan. That's the future. It is pointless that we should not be able to communicate with the whole country around us. It happens occasionally when I'm inside the World Class and I'm in some crazy place in the house that I don't get in touch, and I get frustrated, let alone in a country where you can be out in the wild and you can't get in touch with the circumstances, I mean, anything can happen. I give high priority to this and the cheer of Congress, both in the state of government and in the board, in order to bring this matter into practice and to accept nothing but words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u81	Madam President. Hv. A senator, a spokesman, and co-sponsor of this matter. I'm itching to take part in this discussion with you because it's a matter of great importance to me. I want to thank you for your contributions and for calling attention to the importance of having secure a communications relationship on the street. In recent years, I have had a lot of work to do, and I know a lot about what this country's going through, and unfortunately, it's often where it's most challenging, if there's an accident or a difficult situation, I don't talk about wintering, there's a lot of areas where the relationship is missing. Sadly, it is often common for us to agree that because of our worst relationship, we need the most. I know that a pilot knows about this, he talked about his experiences from the Northeast District, I have it, like many of the country, we can also look at Northwestern districts in particular. As we have seen, this is a very important safety issue. This is a question of habitat quality, safety, public interest and living equals. It's a question of how far we're going in this thing, where there are biological factors that matter, and then the others and these roads can be listed. The Oxnadal honor is e.g. in the most difficult chapter, since there has not always been a good relationship. The road to Mount Þebá, which may also be difficult in winter, is sadly lacking in a relationship in important areas. West Holtah Customs, where snow is often collected and driving conditions are difficult. A trail of water on Snæfells. The elf fun, for I was now measuring a case of the Forest Coast and its construction, and I would like to remind you of the situation there, too, where there are also very dangerous and difficult situations. Many roads on the West And when you run up with the state river and the top part there on the way up to Steing Monster Shrine, the relationship falls out too. The road through the Arnkats Valley, which connects the settlements. This is how you can continue to mention many ways in which you do not have a relationship. Then we could continue to talk about the importance of other roads, that's the farm roads, the museum and the connecting roads. I must also mention the Arsonzeh and the importance of having a good relationship. In many places into the valleys and out to nesja. Tax farms, dollars into Hunsa Lake County, insides of the city's population. Dal management, that's not what I'm talking about. It was not for many days that we were receiving an urgent appeal from the town of Jóhanna, María Sigmundsdóttir, the local resident, for a very difficult cell service in that area and in the Netherlands; it was a call for us to apply ourselves to the fact that we would be doing better there. She even traced it. sad to say that circumstances were often in a way that would not make them feel safe and that things could end up in the worst way, whether there are accidents or problems associated with fixed, broken cars in bad weathers on mountain roads, etc. The call is to respond, and unfortunately, it is a common situation. It's an enormous amount of security and security, so I'm going to mention it again, and living equal rights, of course, are important. Unfortunately, the phone was sold at one time with the Internet, I counted them, and I still believe that it was a mistake. We need to make sure of that, and now that Miami is being sold, this is even more important, and we know it. Public interest and infrastructure must be ensured for all the people of the country. This requires government security. I know that the bill is especially looking at this main route on the highways of the country, and it's supposed to be in top priority. But I'd also like to say how important this is. There's been a public security issue, a Tetra relationship and other important things. I strongly support our following this matter closely, and I just wanted to come here and express support for it. This is my heart's business, and hopefully we'll get together to take other good steps in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u82	Madam President. Before I say anything like this, I'd like to thank the good agents of the greater part that's been saying goodbye, please. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson, who was here on a chair just before, and what. paritaprevir Vagnur the son of Stefánsson, who knows these matters firsthand, why. paritaprevir Tómas Andrés Tómasson as well as Guðmundur the son of Kristinsson. Thank you for having such a good time and for your well-being. This subject is simple and easily understood. We are in a program on energy exchange, provided in a series of nations that have a realistic basis for allowing that energy exchange to go on handsomely and effectively. We have exposed the buyers of automobiles, and recently the buyers of airplanes with a deduction of a worthy tax on electronic devices of that kind. The source of this matter is due to my visit to Naples for about a year ago. two and a half years ago. Wonderful Italy. We were going to make a trip to Capri from Naples with a ferry. Many people stood by the docks, waiting for the squares to cross over to the beautiful island where all the Capri boys enjoy themselves with the Capri Islands. I was ready to go. There was a collection of boats of different sizes to take hundreds of men over there. And I've never experienced anything like this in my life because of the blue-stealed columns of smoke that stood right in our face and down our throat. I'm afraid that the squares there are repugnant and the memories of that sunny day are quite black in this smoke. Since then, I've been tracking the entertainment directives that are coming here to bring the turbino, which, of course, we all choose to get here to the country, either from the air or from the womb. The same black or black - brown cloud is as soon as you catch your eye. Of course, it is not far from the development that is under way, however, when the aircraft is electricalized. We are well along the way to a fleet of cars, and the aircraft fleet is at an early stage, and I know examples of people who are thinking about ferrying an island on Breunnsafjords or looking after other boats, usually smaller. That's why it's here. Let us make this pass over all three main ways; the land, the air, and the sea. It's a bill to legalize the policy of terms of worth taxation, no. 50/1988, eco-friendly ship. The movers, in addition to me, are Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Inga Sæland and Tómas Andrés Tómasson. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par.saying, 'To the law there is a new law for a provision, saying, During the period of January 1, 2022, and December 31, 2023, the import and taxable sales of new vessels and boats, which fall under the warehouse 8901, 8902, 8904, 8905, or 8906 to the customs file, and that are only induced by energy sources, will drop the value tax on price, or count for the release. This should also apply to the depletion of the cost-employment tax for import and first sale of used ships and boats which only use electricity as power source at the end of the transport is three years of year or less on the import date and date of sale based on the first registration. 2. par.: This law already comes into effect. And the article on the matter is very brief. In recent years, it has been customary to provide reserves from a variety of public fees for the purchase of vehicles driven by eco-friendly energy sources. There is a provision in the Act on Pronunciation Tax that allows provision from the payment of a valuable tax from the purchase of electrically powered automobiles, hydrogen - powered vehicles, and motor vehicles. At the end of the last few years, the General Assembly also agreed to cancel the value tax due to electrically powered airships. The objective of this bill is to make sure that the same kind of attraction exists because of electrically powered boats. They've gone to bed. Fax crews have already dropped piers and train fees for such boats. Energy exchange of vehicles is to be promoted, not just by automobiles. Therefore, it is suggested that the sources which provide comparable invitations for boats and ships, as already found in the XL directives for temporary purposes in the worthwhile taxation Act, which includes group cars. It is the hope of carriers that by such elements they can further contribute to energy exchange in Iceland and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is that mine knows as much about things as it does to keep people safe in communication wherever they stand. Let us move the revolution into the energy exchange that has already been offered and take the sterile arrow into this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-09-36.u83	A respectable president. Hv. City of Congress. My fellow Americans. Tómas here, called Tommi. I'm just coming here to strengthen Jakob on this bill. I think it was some mistake not to put it with the planes and the cars, and I would have imagined that it should have been done with just one piece of pen. But if not, I encourage a world of Congress to correct this so that those who want to run through the water on the electric sea can do so in order to create a green environment, which we're all looking for. But as for entertainment, it's said, for fun, that a man who buys a roll or a cruise boat has two good days, the day he buys his boat, and the day he sells the boat. All in between is a pd.
