ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u1	A respectable president. We're here on a bill about the degradation of the value tax on so-called pure energy cars, which is an additional of 5,000 cars, in addition to the 15,000 that has been decommissioned. All I have to do is admit that I have a mixed feeling about this bill and I kind of had it from the beginning and have somehow felt somehow, so I don't feel it right to spend the money that is involved in this subsidence at this point. It is estimated that the cost of this process can be studied to some 5.5 billion, 5.7 billion, and I am not quite sure that it is the right priorities, both financially and similarly. Is it possible to approach this matter in a number of ways, and are we buying cars, or is this the best way to do this? Are we making the best use of the money to reduce pollution? I think so. People don't agree that this is the best way to do this. True, we received positive comments about those who are interested in this way. But we also received reviews or comments that this may not be the proper method to reduce pollution. The main objective of this bill is that there should be a discount on 5,000 cars, but then the discount could be made on the used car afterward, which has a positive effect when renters are going to sell these cars and will help them get into the market at an acceptable price. But what I feel is a major factor in this, and I'm here to support the subsidies of the value tax for the rescue groups, which I think are positive in this bill and will support it, but all who were positive about it. Of course, they had a lot of money, money, to get these cars used. It is possible to argue that these vehicles are small enough, but it is said that when they have to be destroyed by significant pollution, they also come along as low as other cars are on the road, and they are also suspended in the middle of the city by hover pollution, and they have been used by these vehicles, not only to reduce their worth taxation but also to receive the discount of automobile costs because they are lesspolluting and then they are not setting up when they are buying minerals, fuel, to build money to build up our transport system, because they just don't buy fossil fuels like this. In this regard, they are excluded. I'd like to mention here one statement from young environments and, by permission of the President, I'd like to read a little from this review: Young environmentalists make two comments to this bill. Our first criticism has to do with the content of the bill. We want funding to be spent in a more reasonable way than subsidies on electrical vehicles to achieve a recession in greenhouse gas emissions. Our second criticism is the process of reporting that we felt, and it is always supported that an application request is received only three days before the notice. What matters to me in this is that it says to young environmentalists that it is necessary to manage the money of the state, which is really the money of the public. The best way to do this is to achieve a recession in greenhouse gas emissions, but not by subsidion of electrical vehicles is by the percentage of tons. While the groundwork is good, as it is turning toward reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it is far more efficient and more economicly wise to protect these funds from measures that further reduce emissions of a per cent from the state's budget. Other economic instruments, such as reimbursement or taxation, may also be used to achieve pacification, a power that both contributes to, both enhances, both catalyses, action as well as ensures more capitality in climate surgery. The report on this bill shows that the government's objective is that a number of electrical vehicles and other eco-friendly automobiles in Iceland will be 100,000 in 2030. This goal is not acceptable. The aim should not be to reach a certain number of vehicles into the country; it should be much rather important to reduce the use and import of cars. This is based on the simple logic of production, use and disposal or recycling. In electrical vehicles, environmental impacts have been widespread. The objective should be to reduce the total number of cars in Iceland and to set the rate of electricity cars by year rather than to set the proportion of electricity cars in 20 30. It's just a view that I feel is just right, and I also feel that the viewpoint that came into my mind is that it's not necessarily the proper priorities when we're cutting finger action that has to take the least of the groups that we did and that we did. Comments on the lack of unemployment. However, it had not been raised by the 3% rise that those who are being paid from the movers received, so I at least want to keep those views in place. Because of my opinion, I requested that there be a vote for each other so that at least a short team number would be able to do so. 1 Even if I don't support team No. 2. I decided not to understand in a committee program because I know that all the reverends don't agree with me, but we seem to be a liberal party. It allows not all of us to agree, so I will, when it comes to subsidies, support that a public welfare organization like rescue crews get paid but will not vote for this, either. But this is a case that I'm not sure to support at this point because I didn't think it was the right priorities or that it was the right way to reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u2	Hafsteinsdóttir's daughter. A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for Committees on Change of Various Laws as a result of the increase of minimum pension fees. The bill suggests some changes in the pension fund, including increase in minimum amount of waste money from 12% to 15.5% increase in minimum insurance protection from 1.4% to 1.8% of the tax stocks per year, change of the provision of specified ownership, authority to offer funds to adjust the contribution of the fraction of minimum bail protection, equation rights of pensioners to social security. Sources for the tax-free provision specified special property were available for purchase at the first apartment home. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. Comments were presented in a committee program. The existing bill is largely based on a biography contract made by April 2019 and the government's declaration of support. In addition, the Government Treaty stated that no 15.5% of the fee for pensions was to agree with the labour market partners on the export. This is a vital issue, including the following: to complete synchronisation of pension rights and all the labour markets and contribute to the sustainable pension system so that each generation will live up to its own pension rights. In current legislation, the minimum insurance protection provided by the pension fund provides 56% of the average pay period per 40 years of internalization, corresponding to 1.4% of internalization per year, as suggested in the 12 bill to 15.5%, will result in a higher level of rights development or about 72% of average income compared to a 40-year deposit period that also accounts for 8% of the year's recovery. The legalisation of the specified special property will hide the selection of 3.5% additional fees into the joint insurance or designated special property. If a treasurer fails to select, his industry automatically goes into his insurance and makes it 1.8% work, but if the pay for the specified property, the righting process will be 1.4%, as mentioned earlier. For younger financial partners, right work is much more important, and then it is also important for people who have commitments to have rich rights protection in case of tragedy. Since it is important that funds partners are aware of this difference, the Committee considered it proper that the pension fund should ensure informed consent when a business partner wishes a provision of a fee in the designated special property. The bill also includes changes in the fact that all specialities will be involved in reducing the amount of social security provided except for additional pensional savings based on the deposit of 4% of wage candidates and 2% remuneration of paypayers. In other words, in the current law, social insurance will not be impaired if a pensioner gets pay to form and free or bind up the property that has been set to a minimum wage. Today, it is estimated that there are now an estimated 800,1000 million each year going to people with this arrangement. In other words, even with tens of millions and even hundreds of millions of dollars in a bank account, people with large sums of money have been able to obtain full benefits of social security. In my opinion, it's a big deal. In this country, we Iceland have a powerful welfare system. Our pension system is an important part of our welfare system, which, to a large extent, depends on our well - being at the end of our career. The Icelandic pension system has become enormously powerful, and to mark it as Iceland was in first place on the list of indexes. Last year, there has been the best pension system in the world along with Denmark and the Netherlands. It is important that you continue to support the Icelandic pension system, and this bill is part of it. The majority recommend that we review the Regulation on support to purchase the first apartment should be more clearly defined as various terms that seem to require further explanation. Then the more part suggests the change to make a clear statement that the pension fund should separate informed consent when a funds associate wishes a provision into the specified holding. So it is suggested that pension funds be spoken of in their approval. The Chairman wants to thank the members of the Economic and Business Committee for a very good cooperation. Other aspects of this bill's implementation are referred to in the Committee's list of parts that suggest that the bill be approved. With the above change. Under the opinion of most of the literature, as well as from here on, puk. Councilmen, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Diljá Mest Mist Einarsdóttir, Einarsson, Hafdís Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, and Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u3	A respectable president. This huge issue involving one of the biggest interests of working people, the pension savings, is laid out only a few days before the end of the council, and the discussion takes place here under cover of night. It was the first Tuesday of May 31 that the Economic and Business Committee first received the introduction to this huge case from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Requests were sent out on May 3 as June 3, which was on Friday before Pentecost leave until midnight, the second at Pentecost. Despite this brief schedule of long immunity, there were 17 envelopes. So the time to study the matter has been very small, and these issues are most complex. The pension system is so complex that it takes a lot of time and effort to understand it in some way that the time given is not enough at all. It has been suggested that this case has been completed since 2016, so that there has been enough coverage. But in this context, I'd like to remind you that here at the General Assembly, which is about to agree to these dramatic laws are probably 25 new members of Congress, with no less than 40% of those who are going to vote on this dramatic bill as new members of Congress. So when I heard the statement made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I thought it sounded pretty good, and it should be said that this bill is probably much improved, but it is above my understanding and knowledge of the pension system to define it, as well as the time to dive into it has been most clearly stated. Then there was talk, and we had guests before the committee, and two Grímur began to come over me. The committee received 17 envelopes from many pension funds, labor unions, and government sources, such as. The bank's waiting. Whether positive or negative, the attitude of these parties does not necessarily seem the same. In short, though, these 17 comments were reviewed by the writer of the ensuing bill. Hence, 12 and three failed to take a decisive stand. It should be noted that not all 12 of whom I grouped in return were willing to make plain that the bill would be postponed or revised, but their comments could not be read otherwise but would be opposed to the bill. Those who did not take sides are, for example, those who did not take sides. The domestic eco-efficiency organisation, which solely discussed the right to take care of the Agency's housing arrangements, suggest that the range of resources used by the first buyers to use the special resources for the building of housing should be made available to those who have not had their home for three years instead of five years, as suggested in the bill. A smaller portion of this is provided that at this point it has never been more difficult for people to get into the housing market than it is to believe that they should not become a principle to walk in the pensions so that bridges have to be made up of other ways that housing costs could become manageable for as many people as possible without going to the pensions. Then, the Department becomes a pension fund and comments on certain articles, but they do not take sides. Also, the joint comments of the European Union of Iceland, society, motorists, metal technicians, and ship management society were all about the amazings of 6 g. The bill would be set in an untimely provisional law, which separated sailors, one of all classes from the right to receive the additional 3.5% of the response made by their employer, since it has not lent it to sailors to raise this rate of 15.51 and it has been done with other employees. This is part of a higher and different discussion than it is necessary to get a conquistador of the council. Aside from the sector's organizations, they send in a collective review and are the provided bill and BHM, despite the approval of BHM's reviews, including the permission of Presidents: although BHM measures the number of the bill's findings, the Community points out that the bill appears for a fourth time in agreement with the government and is evidence of the great dissatisfaction of the materials and the leading of the center of the total body of pay people and of the public market. Bhm, BSRB, and KI have repeatedly condemned the procedures that have been used in the process and noted that there has been a significant lack of consultation on the issues involving fundamental changes in the order of pensions in the public market. In fact, very many reviews, such as in the case of a guest of economic and business committee, conclude the criticism of consultation, and there is something that a body of Congress must take note of when that criticism comes in as many ways as it really does. In a joint review of ASI and the Association of Employment, it says, with the permission of a president: The above - defined changes are the government's reaction to comments on earlier scenes that the bill from the clients'funds outside a contract with ASI and SA. The compromise in these changes is going very far, hoping that ASI and SA will lead to a broad support for the bill. Quotation complete. Sadly, it will be said that this shared hope for ASI and the organization of industry has not been able to bear at all. It is clear that there is a large disagreement on certain aspects of the bill, both within the labor movement and among the pensions of those who sent in the bill and who are against the bill in this picture or who wish it to be won better and/or to be asked for a greenbook for the overall requisition of the pension system. Is the common pension fund special to the fund... a pension bonus on a bridge. The pension fund for PBRB, the pension fund for a Free, pension fund for the pension fund, the Icelandic Pension Fund, the Teacher Union of Iceland, Reykjavíkurborg, the Akrelin's Work and the Navy, yes, the Secret Bank opposes this bill. His review includes, by permission of the President: It is the Court's opinion that the changes in the nature of the bill would be a part of more extensive pension policy and a review of a law on the insurance policy and the operation of pension funds. A general statement closes to the government's voice, and I don't see why not now, especially since the opposition among the nurses is as great as it really is. Although most people seem to be opposed to the bill, it is not always for the same reason that I am not going to try to define their different views from their different interests, depending on whether the government or the free funds are involved. I'll leave it to someone else. I'm gonna ask the President to put me back on the rosary, because from now on I'm going to discuss what I think is more serious about this bill later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u4	Likewise, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir answers a talk. 3.m. South... A respectable president. I would like to respond in a brief, brief manner to a talk. Senator 3th. S.k., Áshilildi Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, where she specifically refers to the fact that there have been many financial and business committees who sent negative comments about this bill, two people in attendance, and 12 people in return. I want to make sure that what was special there, one review, was special. Not often. It doesn't often happen that the Association of Business and ASI, the National Association of Iceland, sent a collective review, but it happened in this case, and I want to make it in ASI and SA operate nine Pension Funds, nine as far as I know, so they could have all these new ones sent in a review. At that time, this figure has not been two, but ten; and there was also much discussion about the committee's being there, as it were. A senator entered, different viewpoints, and this matter. We can't just trace it back to 2016. We can shave back to 2011. It's been a lot of discussion. This has been a big part of the workforce discussion, whether the public or the public market, and I am so glad that this bill is brought here to the council. Dignity number three.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u5	A respectable president. It is now in the second part of my speech that I had to change for a talk period here, that he was me dividing it in two because I intend only to address this development of ASI and the firms of professional life and its consequences. But what I do, it is clear that, for example, it would need to be. Laborism, partners in ASI who don't approve of these contracts, although I'm on it so that I don't know what happened with those regulations of a pension fund that didn't send in a review. It was also a very short period of time, so it may well have been that if time had been enough, only a lot more reports would have come. But, and yes, it's true that this has been in the discussion for a long time, but the fact is that it's a huge deal and 40% of us senators who are about to vote for it. We're just off this case, and it just happened a few days ago for an economic and business committee, and I just don't think so. Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u6	Another time yes, a respectable president. I just want to make clear what I said before in my previous objection that there was an ASI and SA common review, so there was no common understanding between this bill and that even though we had given all the time in the world, there would have been no more reviews because there were these funds on this contract and we're not talking about a little angel. We're talking about 75 constituted 80% of the labour market that sent in a collective review and agreed that this case needs to be established. Hv. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u7	As I said, a respectable president, as I said before, I'm here to talk about only the arrival of ASI and the company of the employment of this and maybe also the pension fund because, yes, I'm not going to go into it all right now, although it would agree completely, although it might not be quite appropriate, but a little time will follow in the speech. But the thing is, ASI sends something in. However, it is evident that the labor movement, even the number of associates within ASI, does not agree with this process. There's nothing going on, and so I don't know what the situation is with these pensions. But that doesn't change the fact that it's not a unit of activity within ASI. Then an authority will speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u8	Paint. A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee's Section 2 of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to correct the change of various laws due to the increase of minimum pay to a pension fund. With the opinion of the committee, we stand up for this committee, Thord Sunna Ævarsdóttir, a representative of Pirata in the Economic and Business Committee. We support the increase in minimum tax rate and minimum insurance protection recommended in the bill, but we warn against any type of law change that has fallen in order to weaken the cohesion power of the pension system. We also believe that the government's policy, the last government policy, is that traditional housing support systems are weakened but authorized in place of the tax-free provision of pension savings into mortgage loans has not been successful, since this policy is primarily the most efficient of the population in this country. Of course, it is this way, as it has been established, that the European Union of Iceland and the European Union of industry strongly encourages the Council to accept this bill, and, of course, it must always weigh the very heavy European Union of Iceland. It's the largest entire company in Iceland, and it's never going to be minimized. However, it cannot be said that there is a complete unity on the subject of the bill, among the trade unions in general, and in fact, there has been an extremely harsh criticism that would be irresponsible not to listen to or take seriously and respond in some way. Then perhaps my main concern is from the BSRB and from Iceland's Teacher Union. Bsrb believes that the bill is inseparable among biodiversaries, reducing the impact of the Union. The Teacher Union goes so far as to say that the bill, perhaps one of the most serious attempts in the Icelandic community ever made. This tells the Teacher Union of criticism, at least at least, it may be normal to respond to it. Address her and answer her in some way. But that is not really the case, not one point being done in the leading party of the greater part, such as the harshness of criticism and from sources that we must respect and listen to. Maybe you could have stopped for a while. This is similar to criticism in the reviews of the bridges of the pension fund of a member of the rural community and in the comments of Reykjavík, where it warns that by means of the bill, there is an increase in the status of income hairs and inflation and that it is undermined by insurance. I think it is important to say that in my second section we strongly support the change suggested in the bill playing pension payments and payment and payment and payment from the social security system and that the Honorable Director of the Economic and Business Committee handled the impact of this situation here, and it's safe to agree with her there. I believe, however, that the separation between the old impairment, the arrangement, and the new one needs further attention. It is now recommended in Article 13. The bill is that for people who have already collected special property in a pension fund which provides such information, the special property should not be involved in the reduction of pension, income insurance, and financial resources if the individual has a pension plan prior to January 1, 2003. However, a person who has a pension day later will, in effect, experience the changed arrangement in full weight and with all the special property that the person had collected. The contribution of older citizens in and around Reykjavík suggests that this may include an illegal retrospective decrease in pension rights that will call for a legal lawsuit against the state. I'm not gonna take a stand on whether this may include an illegal or repetitious loss of property rights. However, the subject was not addressed. There's really no legal opinion on this in the treatment of the bill on the Economic and Business Committee. I may now come here to the chairman of the Committee for Defense and Others, that may be because this is a late review, but the bill is also or was late entering the council and then the deadline was brief. So this is the self-importation of the government and the government, and I'm not convinced that this bill is fully compatible with the declared policy of the government and the labour market bodies to balance the biofuel rates in the labour market, the simple system, reduces the complexity, reduces built - in discrimination in it, and it has not really been identified as such a complete analysis of the effects of the changes put forth from sex, the life-like activities of life. I haven't seen any insurance, mathematical analysis of this that you might have expected in view of what this bill is somehow being what it has been for a long life, so that I could see what a fourth Thordson did to some form, though a third, there's no cost assessment due to an expansion of the tax-free assessment of pensions to buy housing on these elements on the bill and there I'd like to remind you. There are certain obligations on the Lawgiver to have such cost estimates referred to Article 129. A rural government law that says that if it is predictable to suggest that the administrative directive or other policy-makers on the part of the government will have a financial impact on rural society, a special assessment of their effect on the economy of rural society should be made. It has not been done, and finally it is clear that there has been no time to act, and perhaps a number of so - called technical comments made that have been made on individual regulations. So in part 2 we feel that this bill needs further overcrowding, deeper discussion. We can't just say what to say. 7. We're out of Suðvest. "Sunna Ævarsdóttir Þórhildur.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u9	Þórsdóttir. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson put it right in this regard the comments we have in memory of that bill. In itself, I'm not going through that scene at 11. I just want to make some comments. First of all, it may be a very short period of time that has been allowed to handle this huge complexity and a massive bill is not acceptable. I don't really care what the financial situation this isn't acceptable. It is not acceptable that the council will have two weeks to do as much important and important a matter as this, especially because when it is presented to the committee then and based on the history of this case, it was attributed to a previous presentation of a slightly different picture. It wasn't that much at the point of calling the committee back to the government to the then economic and commercial committee. I hope I'm remembering this perfectly right that in order to win this better in the near peace of an economist. Then it comes back to the council, and we get to hear: Yes, it's about time. Then the review of the Committee begins, and it turns out that there's just no comfortable reconciliation with this and that the BSRB was, for example. just didn't bring in a head of any sense at least and I feel that this approach was somehow a bit of what I had to do if we were to put it in our tone of voice, as if it were somehow trying to make peace, to throw some prime point on the language that could have sent in a review, perhaps taking into consideration it or not. It's not an active conversation, it's not really trying to settle down in such a process. He sits in my head a little bit about trying to accept a point of view and that it should be the project of the Ministry and Minister to try to accept the viewpoints of different viewpoints. Then they express themselves, and they talk to some but not all of them at all, and they just feel right. During the case, the bill is inserted into a confidential approach and those who were not included in it have the same opportunity to let their light shine. It's not exactly the spirit that I feel should be employed as this one that concerns the interests of as many people and has the consequences of as many and as much pension rights. Sure, I've been wanting to get it out of my way. I don't think this is an acceptable practice. I'm always like a scratched record around here because it's all too common to be so huge in the final meters, and sometimes it doesn't say. I've heard excellent explanations for why it came so late, I don't think it's acceptable or appropriate, but sometimes you even have a very late case, just so that the council has a very short time to work. But I reiterate that I'm not saying that in this case it applies. And then I'd like to talk about a new figure in this bill that's making it possible for the pension fund to decide whether to allow pensioners to go that 3.5% of their pensional savings went on so-called special property. But what is also right is that what is new about this is that the specified property can be used to buy some of its first estate or to subsidies on the mortgages. I'll make a note of this approach. I don't think it's the right politics. First, it has been a long line of criticism. They've spent all too much money and money pumping into demand for housing in Iceland and we've seen the consequences of it out here in the community, amazing times, orgy and money that have gone into running some demand at a market with access to loans with such resources from subsidies on the part of the government and, in fact, the Secret Bank, but all too little done on the forward side, all too little done on the social side. It is the building of social housing, support of a lower income level by providing housing on social grounds and the development of problems with apartments. There is, and it's an unfavourable network of apartments. It was only time for me to throw away all these terms. But what I'm trying to say is here, a respectable president, discussing the wrong priorities to find another way to inject into the demand side, not to be planning on fixing the forward side. Also, I think it's bad politics to always be thinking of it as a solution to allow people to go to their life savings to secure a home or to settle, even taking out, as the government has been allowing now for years for just the poorest people to take their own special savings to earn food and rent, a tax full, but is going to be a politicalist. We should always borrow from the future. Our very own thank the government for that. Thank you. Even though I was good, I was allowed to borrow from myself. I mean, this is so ridiculous. Of course, it would be far wiser to stop injecting all your money into those who have plenty of money for and for those who are making it, etc. and use that money to build a strong social housing system and a fair, realistic rent around here, too, because there's no one who wants to invest everything in concrete. It's not like that. We know that there is a large group of tenants who would like to be in a rented market that if it wasn't this terrible market here, I think it's wrong priorities and I think it's also something I should consider to be the least of them. To the extent that this special property can buy the first apartment, it must be so that the extra pension will not be sufficient or without additional pensions. We know that the lowest income tenants are many of those who do not have extra pensions because they cannot afford to become of these 2% who have to cross their employer to get these 4% in return, which, of course, is incredibly unfair, which means that this resource is most useful to those who do not have special resources to make use of their first purchases or subsidies. So that's where we're offering the lowest income-tenths to make a bet of that well, okay, I have to get my feet in, I have to get into this terrible housing market that's way too tall and all and accessible, and somehow I have to do it, and it's something that's going to help me. What I'm offering in return is that if I could possibly finish my job or that would have a profound effect on my future rights. I felt that my pocket was hurting and giving to people, and I feel that it is important for people to be informed about the consequences of such choices. I also feel that other things are important rather than allowing people to borrow themselves to be tried. When it comes to helping people enjoy the basic human rights of covering over their heads. I don't think it's a bad priorities. I don't think we're always supposed to be sending people into their savings for the older years so they can cover their heads, a safe roof over their heads because we know you're stuck in a lease. Isn't that a safe roof over Iceland's head? It's just that way. So I think it's just a bad idea. I feel that this system is a road to your insurance policy, and I disagree with it, and I also feel that we would have needed much more time to review these opinions. I could have asked many more questions, but I had many questions than those I asked. Yeah, I could've called for more data and analysis and, like, what. paritaprevir Jóhann, Páll's reference to Jóhann Pállur Jóhannsson, points out that his speech did not allow time and was not available for precise analysis of the effect of this bill on a wide range of factors. But here we are, and there are some things that are fine in this bill as we have been traced, and of course, I and the Porta council will support what we think is good. But I make a serious remark to be able to set down a special purchase for the first estate because I fully understand how tempting it is to do exactly that. There's a risk in this, and it reduces the overall insurance policy of the pension system, so there's a change I think you might have waited on until further and better coverage of at least This point could have been taken care of. But saying that then I will support various aspects of this bill, and I'm also grateful to the Honorable Economic and Business Committee for a good cooperation in this case. It's working hands. But I say again, I don't think this is an acceptable method, to bring the case so late to the Committee, and I would like to encourage the esteemed head of the Committee to revitalize the Ministry because every time we bring a case so late into our office that perhaps someday it might end, of course, there would be nothing to go on. They're coming in so late. But we know what it's like, at least It would be nice to get a little shame in the hat in order to try to stop this happening from happening again and again, as it all does on it. Then why not? A 10th senator in the South.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u10	A respectable president. Yes, we're here to discuss a legal bill on a minimum pension fee of 15.5% and this has been over many and including. that this case wasn't a good practice, and I can only agree with it. Sometimes I'm surprised at the way we work. Here it's just an advance pump, like just the budget or other changes in the last record, and when people were writing that opinion even after people were in the process of writing, there's only a big change coming from the government to some action to improve the state's status so that, of course, I can join up with the problem of working around here and give people time to do it, cross things. As a matter of fact, I'm in a position to know this matter quite well. The labor movement has been employed for over 20 years. I know the prehistoric. As a participant, I signed the collective agreement that actually led to the beginning of this matter. This began with the 2015 collective agreements when we made a deal with the president. The terms in the contract that it then turns out, 2016 that the criteria have failed and not to add to the expansion, to consider alternatives but to just raise the pay. It came out that, of course, it was only a gray shot to take advantage of this opportunity to balance those pension rights that had been ineffable, always. The pension rights of public employees were always considerably better than the pension rights of employees in a general labour market, so the labor movement has been fighting for decades to reach the level of the pension rights of the market. Of course, there was a certain view on either side of the table when this was done at the time. It is also a study of equal pay between markets, and at the same time, the Kingdom responsibility for public employees'pensions was to be taken care of, making it possible that, of course, their funds are just like the general funds, just to take care of themselves, and it was only natural and right to do so. We were sitting at the same table on the state's responsibilities. There will be no state responsibility for public funds that just lost much of their rights in the collapse, so at the same time, there was a public fund with state responsibility, so there is one thing and another in this. However, the result was an increase of 15.5, and this was done in three years from 2016◯2018 years of age that balances the pay range or changes the employer's contribution during this three and a half years into the pension fund, and this makes it possible, as we have considered, that increasing the rights to the pensions are greatly increasing and will have significant changes. To date, people who have worked for 40 years have not been out of a pension fund except for an average payoff of 56%, but with these changes, the person may expect 72% of his life income. This is a significant improvement in this increased deposit. It only guarantees the right person when he retires, so it is, of course, a great improvement that this also is being done. You will then be 1.8% a year instead of 1.4, and that is so that you can do what you're doing every year or every decade, a public television station paying a pension fund what they're entitled to do and earn. Then, of course, what has been bitter and you hear it in people's hearts, is this particular property that many people disagree with, but it only has its own history, this special property. It just comes into existence because a certain part of the labor movement just didn't want to increase the privileges in the United States, just wanted it clean and clear. But it was never meant to be there but that it was something that should be required for you to retire. That was the point. The result was the compromise in, this stated special property that would then be the property of another special property, this was private property, and it was impossible, and, of course, it's something many thought it would be a good thing to hear of, and a holy man always pays that pension fund. Then you just die. Then the family won't get anything. Many have spoken that way. But we have our insurance insurance in this fund so that those who get sick or hurt along the way, they have some of the insurance that is made into the insurance policy of pension so that it's going against each other. It's putting things in the specified special property. Then you're still doing this old work thing that's 56% in the way it was, you're in the same position, but when you're in the same position at 3.5% that's being treated in another way, and your descendants can get it to themselves if you're depressed before you've looked at it so that it's plus and minus on this, and then, of course, this choice is just to take place when you started paying a pension, although they're introduced to you, what it means, what you're going to put under the specified property and I're trying to trace it. But what's in the insurance policy, what insurance, what's the extra insurance making by putting it all together? Of course, we were just aware that young people who are starting to work should, in fact, put everything in their insurance policy to make both their own guarantees and their insurance for themselves as well as for them, are insurance insurance for children. There's insurance for couples that really matters, and it's based on what's in the Union, so all these people need to appreciate this, that, of course, it's just a choice that needs to be taken, and I just think it's normal, and I'm not afraid that people will choose because they think it's for the best. So I'm not. I'm not afraid of all this. I think most people will choose wisely and I am. All we can see is that there are only amount of energy, pressures on the pensions, and only funds like values that have a lot of workers. There's just more about disability because only work that people are doing is more difficult and may only cause more physical illness in the past than for people who just sit in the office like that. It's not unusual for such a group to choose to be in your insurance policy to keep your insurance better, and it just seems that it did happen, but in force that most people are just in your insurance policy. They have not gone to this specified special property, so it may be as though it were my turn, that this has been a part of it at the time. I had never imagined that some of these things would have to be used to create an accident, a special property, because I had looked at it like many others. We're improving rights, and that's why we're watching insurance, not some specific property, but because of the opposition of certain members of the labor movement. We had a compromise to create this binding special property which was first called but was then converted to this specified special property. That led to the conclusion. Now there are other things that I could have gone through. It wouldn't be in there like this tax-free, tax-employing authority to use the specified special property to buy in the first apartment house, which, in addition to the provision of an additional charge or additional pension savings, we can never go up to 500,000 tons a year, so if you have any extra pension money, it will have it before you use it as your special property. If I just look at it like this. I was just looking at it this hard if you've got 500,000 bucks. in salary, you're paying 6% of the extra pension savings or 30,000 a month, that's 360 head over. This year, at most, 140,000 calls of the specified special property over the year, so if you have 600,000, you can only reserve 68,000 of the specified special property you are and earn up to 250,000 so that you can only make up a fraction of it. If you have 700,000 a month, you can't take care of anything. That's why the special property savings has already come up for this. So it's also just a choice, would you like to invest in property, which is so only property that it can sell when you retire, or would you like to keep it in your insurance or in your special possession when you retire? It's just there's just rules that people can only have their own opinions, and you don't always have to make a choice for people. What I think is important in this, too, is equalizing everyone's social security status. It is important that those who have been paying just special or supplementary pensions, who have been able to keep free from the insurance and as a result have often been able to get out of public security, such as people who have no income. It's not just unacceptable, and it's just a big change. It doesn't work that income-priority groups that haven't been in your debt to pay the pension money, that they can get out of social security like people who don't have any income, so it's just a requisition that matters a lot, so I'm not going to say anything much more about it. I'm, I'm just happy that after six years or seven years, it's since the first deal 2015 was made that this is becoming a law. This minimum-time guarantee of contribution to a pension fund. It matters. I'm also happy with this, the changes that have taken place on the bill. I've been hearing about this bill for quite a while, long before I became a senator, and there was talk of concern that it should be moving the pension age from 16 to 18. It was taken out. Only with this change would the percentage of them have disappeared by 3.6% for one 1.8 a year, so it was just that. It was good for them to be taken out. This would have really been just a theft of young people if it had become a law. But, fortunately, this was a review of how to calculate this change in the index account should have been to calculate it only annually, in place of monthly work, of both our loans, and then it is reasonable to assume that the calculation of an index number is just the same in every way that it was perhaps the thing that was in people who might make the most remarks. This is gone out, and it only follows those listed factors, or even it is making sure that those in special savings enjoy Chinese separately or longer. A donation of 15 years will have to be guaranteed, and then funds partners will be making a decision on the specified special property now. Then why not? 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u11	A respectable president. I'm going here to discuss the latter part of my speech, and now I'm going to discuss the small part of this complex matter that I've covered in this brief period of time, and the part about the rights and will of those whose pensions are supposed to be about destruction is about employees, he himself. I ask myself, " Am I showing respect for the approval approved by the company of the labour market in 2016 and the paymen agreed and, unfortunately, cannot see that this is the case? ' It is said that this bill is based on a labour agreement from 2016, which is correct, with the permission of the President: At a review of ASI's labour agreement and SA on pensions to be completed by the end of May 2016, individuals will be allowed in part or fully 3.5% of the increased payer's contribution in terms of special property savings instead of insurance to facilitate employees and increase flexibility. Quotation complete. I'll call attention to what. Councilmen on the sentence of an individual will be allowed to account for the increase in pay pay payer's contribution to the special property. Children's solidarity in 2016 was made up of contracts between employees and remuneration workers. Of course, it wasn't between pension funds and paypayers, and the pension funds were not part of these agreements. According to the contract, payers were to provide special property fees that someone needed, so to speak, and to keep. This part was placed in the hands of the pension fund and the funds the employee would choose for himself as the concierge. All chosen was the employee, and this was on the basis of which employees agreed to the 2016 Convention. With the permission of the President, I'm going to reread what is in the contract and ask a body of Congress to try on the bill that the government is going to do quickly during the last days of the council. The contract includes reviewing the ASI labour agreements and SA on pensions to be completed prior to May 2016, subjects will be allowed to make a partial or complete 3.5% of the increase in paypayer's contribution in terms of their special share instead of solidarity. This is a salary payment from the employee to the employee in the case of the special property. Hv. Senators can have all the opinions about whether this is the best way or not, or how it affects the integration, but these opinions do not change what paid people were, or they felt that they were accepting when they agreed to this agreement. We're not allowed to change it without at least Showing them the respect of allowing them to vote on this new arrangement. According to this bill, the individual has been exonerated and placed in the bank for the pension fund. While the contract assumes that the special property is placed in pension savings, this is still an agreement between the employee and the remuneration paid by the bank, even if the pension funds are to be entrusted. The pension fund was not otherwise the parties of this agreement, a further bank, which is the possession of pay-employment accounts. We would be in a similar position if the bank was to interfere with the provision of money and our checking accounts, but in this case the pension fund has become those who receive this money and have control of it. This bill is taking the financial resources from the people and moving them to the pension fund, so that now the employee's authorization is 3.5% pay on free reserves, suddenly becoming the source of a pension fund to offer the option if a employee has the initiative to search for it. I repeat, this is not what was agreed on. This is not what labor leaders listed or approved as employees. It's getting worse again when the B-jog 2s. The bill is read. But it says, by permission of the president: However, the pension fund is permitted to state in its approval that a body member can arrange up to 3.5% of its pay on the given property according to the words. They are not even obliged to offer the possibility of this designated special property, a new concept that many people scratch in their heads but were to be free pension savings. In fact, it is up to them to decide whether or not they will choose to do so. In fact, this is one of the things the pension fund places on making a choice and promoting cosmology as evidence of it, and not that I'm going to trace it more closely here, because it's just not about what the pensions want and not even whether they're right. It's about that the words have been turned to the silent purpose of the contract and the provision right to the payer's contribution completely upside down. Let's assume that this arrangement is the best and the best of things that I have just not the basis for evaluating, but if so, it remains the fact that in these laws it is not what was agreed on but some amazing twist of it and that employees have not been asked about this process. A meeting was made with the employee, and according to this, the pension funds have no right to deny the financial value of this donation, not even in the name of insurance. It is simply not acceptable how these matters, with collective agreements being closed in the fall, are best placed under the votes of those under the collective agreement to have the authority that is now taking them away. All of this shows that when the ink has hardly dried up during the contract, a few people sat down and began to pick up what was agreed on. This is one thing that will never be successful in controlling the ASI and the firms of professional life for achieving this conclusion. I'm not surprised it's the business organization's will. But how surprised I was that the leader of the largest umbrella company of hired people from the country sign them! In this regard, I would like to point out that the President of ASI does not have a contract bid for the members of the Member States who signed the contract and thus was not his direct party. The reference work union of Aranesp includes, with the permission of a president: however, the employment community and ASI changed what was stated in the collective agreement to establish a special property and create a new special property which was called a special property. As a result, it was not chosen in the collective agreements. Then it was found that the main objective of ASI and SA was to create a special property that was so built that everyone should run to the pension fund and hired people would not have the authority to choose another owner, and it also had much more difficult conditions than the free extra savings that the public would actually think were choosing. When these actions of SA and ASI became reality, the FESI made serious comments on the project. Quotation complete. It says that even the FESI made comments to what it looks like today, with all due respect for the office of President ASI and the commission it offers. Then the President of ASI seems to be quite alone on this tour in which every partner of employee who either submitted a review was strongly opposed to these changes, and it compares to the labour company of the public market to the Public Vilhjálmur Birgisson, who writes the story of the Ak Arane's Labor Association and the newly elected head of the Work Programme Association, is more than one of the persons who signed the 2016 contract and thus knows what ideas were behind the 3.5% and how they were presented to employees. We must take this into account, and in the situation today, it would be worse than often in the past to expand the gap between the unions and their partners for the bridal talks of the fall so that the bill harmonizes with what was agreed on. Then the 3.5% of them would need to walk straight into the free pension savings of the remuneration fund of their choice. On the other hand, if the employee wants him to be more special to the United States, he should be free and free of charge. Then there is a very different question: Do many people want it to be over their heads? But the key point is that the pension fund has nothing to do with it, or interfere with each employee's specific property, much less collect his fees, wishes, salary, after moving his money into another fund. But in P-E-T. Three. The bill says, by permission of the president: However, a pension fund is permitted to collect a fund of funds resulting from the cost of transport to the designated special property. Quoting concludes: Moving money between funds is not a complicated matter today. It is not as if a man needs armor and armor for a car to move money between funds. This is done electronically, and it is all right that the pension fund collects a fee that responds to a transfer price but that the amount is virtually self-imposed in this way does not amount to any other direction. The simplest would be, however, that payer would pay 3.5% directly to the employee's choice, and then will disappear: Only the employee determined at some point to switch the owners. If something is wrong, consider whether the funds should not be paid for the use of the property. But I'm not suggesting it. I'm just suggesting it to prove the folly of the price. So I suggest that the authorization of pension funds to take the fee of special property for transfer to another fund be taken away. Those who follow the bill have said that there will never be a full agreement on this matter in which interests are so different. All right. But sooner or later, let's face it. There is a huge disagreement about this and what is worse is that those who were agreed and for those who have had no idea of what it looks like today. At the end, I'd like to remind you, by permission of the President, that the way this bill is prepared for a meal of 3.5%. This is by no means in accordance with what the labour market members signed and accepted by employees. I recommend that the whole case be dismissed, which clearly requires better processing and that the legislation on the rise of minimum money to a pension fund be expressed under the votes of the largest strategies of the case themselves. Finally, because of the short time available for the treatment of various problems on the bill and how it is uncomfortable with the collective agreements given under the votes of the employee, the lesser part feels that it will be delayed for further treatment in relation to the proposed ones, the overall review of the law on life insurance and the operation of pension funds, in closer consultation with the representative of the major strategies. According to the above, the smaller section suggests that the bill will be referred to a government. Hv. A 10th senator in the South.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u12	And what? Senator, 1 0th. Southk, to speak. A respectable president. I think I need a little more than two minutes to say something about what's been said here. Well, I have to say, top dog. Mr President, I think it's a strange historical explanation that we have here. This is to be said and when it comes to saying that those who have been doing this for the labor movement at the time have betrayed people when votes for collective agreements were proposed because this refers to labor companies. I'm just one of them, I was just in the process of making this deal, I was also one of those who was in the process of introducing this deal. I just don't know, a respectable president, the fraud and deception that we're talking about here, that employees have been tricked into accepting any agreement that was out of support in the real world. It's just something I refer to the father's house. At that time, I did not know a special property, but I knew what was called a special property, and it was written, and that's how the contract was presented. It was a special property that people were not to have access to for retirement. That's the deal. Then there has been a point where this special property should be taken into account and who could handle it. There is a problem with the fact that the special property is being sent out through the crisis and crisis without this social security system has an overview of how things are taken into consideration. Employers are sending an overview of the deposit to a pension fund, and he has to somehow find out if they are to receive 12% or 15 percent of jobs, give 15% insurance protection or 12%, and he knows that by sending you in and then let you know that you're either in the designated special property, and if you're in the specified property, he'll talk to a pension fund and say: I want the alternative so that the pension fund can't keep the pension fund around the insurance protection itself, which is either 12 or 15.5 common free funds, they get to put on the special property or into the insurance policy. If the specified special property should then go elsewhere, it is free, of course, only with this transfer and in consultation with the pension fund. There is full knowledge that insurance protection will be 12%, not 15.5. So that's just what they're saying right now, that they're being fooled because they're supposed to be the source of the pension funds it's so that this deal was made on the table of ASI and SA, never to turn anything to the public funds. Then it just comes up right now when it's being legalized. There are no laws that can be created that embrace some. They're making laws around the world, and we just hear them on the public funds. They have no particular interest in this, and it's all turned up to be this. Will be their authority to do this if they choose, and then, of course, it's a member of the funds who decides whether or not they choose to use the funds or put it up so that there will be a special property in the funds. The public funds have all brought the specified special property. There's no turning around with it, there's just a place, and there's no fooling anyone, people just pick that pension money doesn't decide and say, "I'm going to quit the specified special property, it's just part of a dress contract made in the possession of those who pay it. They're just making up their minds. That's the way it was done, and it can't be returned unless it's made up by members. So I can't figure it out when they're making such a statement. I just don't get it. Because I know the story from the very beginning when people are being accused of fraud, I get up and be myself. I've been in this labor movement since 1998, but I know exactly what's been going on there, not 98 of 1996. I know it well, and that deal he made. He was only meant to equalize the pension rights of a government donor with the public system and wise people about fraud and pork are natural idealists. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u13	While giving answers, members of Parliament can make use of the scheduled time for members of Congress, thus allowing them to comment on brief talks. 1st. South, Guðrún.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u14	Mr. Hauksdóttir's daughter, a respectable president, it was a powerful and powerful speech as 3th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Moved here but a lot of false information that comes as a surprise when people are talking about it. I show it understanding when it comes to it. A senator says that the pension system is complex and difficult to understand. The words can be echoed, and all of us who have been involved in this system make it simpler with all our power. There is a lot of discrepancies in ASI, and I just want to remind you that the reports received from the non- ASI Member States were few, but they came from the AMDs and sailors' union and VR. There are 130,000 partners in the ASI, if I'm right, and it's my opinion that the members who sent envelopes are a small fraction of the number of members of ASI that speak for. Then we can think that we can say that 90 to even 95% of the ASI votes did not make comments, and I don't think that it's done much for disunity. At least you haven't heard of it within an ASI in making a statement or comment on this bill because it was called a pensioner. The committee that took it for them. In turn, they give ASI to green light, the way to handle this matter. I'd like to, too, to know that there was a word on the subject of increased complications. It's certainly an increasing misunderstanding when a new asset is created, but I'm just going to remind you that this is already done. Has there been a special property set up in all pension funds on the sector of employment contracts and ASI? This has been formed so that there is nothing to be increased by approval here at the council of this council. It's just a series of legislations that are already under way, which means a measure of security for pensioners in this country for funds companies for the entire population, so the law is not made new. They're far more involved in stopping complications. I'd also like to remind you that our pension system, which, as I said in my speech earlier tonight, is thought to be one of the best things in the world. It is the product of work, especially the labor movement and professional drivers in this country and the pension system as I came in earlier. This is part of the well-being of us Icelanders. I've said in public that we won't always be happy in this country, but it's been a lot of luck for us Icelanders, and let's thank the people who stood here over 50 years ago and set us up on this system because we're jealous of them by the nations around us. This is the system recommended by the World Cash Fund, the setup of this system. I can't say that this case has been out of line, because this case has been almost ten years old, and everyone involved in pensions in Iceland is quite familiar with it. So I want to make sure that people are right and are not going to subtract a system that's good in Icelandic society. To answer that question, what do you think? 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u15	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm just gonna admit that I don't know the Pension System that's crazy well. That's one of the reasons why I'm very at odds with the short time we've been given because we had very little time to review these matters, and I really don't have a basis for taking a materialistic stand on the matter, and I made it very clear that I was not taking a material position so as to see the point. But I just can't ignore it here, and I don't think it's any kind of a story explanation. paritaprevir Guðbrandur Einarsson said that the contract says that, but I think I have an excellent sense of reading, and there are individuals who will be permitted to do so. This is just that individuals no longer have this authority, in effect, to make up their minds. It has become a bit hairy and stretched. It's just that it has to be said right now, and so I don't know. I heard tremendous doubts from many labor leaders. I realize there's a split-out inside. He's obviously there. It is. There are labor leaders and who agree with this as well as with others. paritaprevir Einarsson, who worked long within the labor movement, even if it comes only to these contracts, yes, but others who signed it aren't, and there's nothing to be said about anything, some bit of ASI when we're talking about being there to VR and yet, I don't know my enthusiasm, it's not likely, is not okay with this deal. But the second is that they did not all return, but it was given a Pentecostal weekend. It's just a very short time. Still, there were 17 reviews, and most of them were in some way negative, just listening, and that's what I'm watching. I'm not going to do this materially, and I'm not criticizing a pension fund as a whole or anything like that. I'm just talking about that one day. 2016 was made a contract, and I don't see that the individuals feel that they are now, that's what they were paid for. The employees were in the middle of this contract, but the pension fund has become so today. It's not the same thing. This may well be the best arrangement you can find. I'm just talking about what's in this context and I can't see that it's being carried out. That's all I'm saying. I'm not, I didn't say a single word of tangle, nothing like that. I just went over because I've been able to read out of this for a short time, but it may well be that this is the best thing you can do. I just don't have a basis for evaluating this to reevaluate ASI's labour agreements and SA on pensions to be completed prior to May 2016, people will be allowed in part to have a 3.5% increase in paypayer's contribution in addition to their own insurance policy to help pay staff and improve flexibility. I can't see that the pensions are supposed to be in the middle of this agreement even if, as I say, maybe it's the best. I'm not even taking sides on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u16	A respectable president. It is a big time that the Council has managed to complete a discussion on a frame plan, but it hasn't happened since January 13, 2013. So this is a very big step and one of the most important things we are taking now and it is with great responsibility that we will complete this process if we agree with it below. It is highly responsible for nature protection, for the energy issues in the country, and particularly for the process of straddling, a process to form a balance between innovation and protection, and the level of agreement. There will never be perfect reconciliation. It's important that she be as professional and professional as possible. By voting with this program today, we are ensuring this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u17	V.E.G. President. The programme for the protection and efficiency of land areas is a good plan, a good tool to be used by us, and therefore we are happy that the third stage is finally done here today. But he's a very expensive price. I thought the government of the left green, independent party and forwarding party had been formed to reflect the width of society all the way from left to right, all the way from protection to its use. Today it turns out that this is not the business of this government. It reflects its inner echoes. And they shall hear the shouts of the chief part of the hand of Skafur; the shouts of the wiles, and the shouts of them that will bring to the rich, and the great works of our natural treasures upon a silver garment. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u18	Mr. President. No one gets the frame plan he wants, was quoted yesterday as the prime minister. This is not entirely the truth, as recruitment operators get the framework they want with the changes made by most of the part. Nationalization and the Kosperors Association receive their fortresses taken from a reservation of protection, moving one step closer to the colony that these sides have been fighting for years. The amendment is served in the motions of much of it. It is a political compromise without any professional and objective reasoning for the sake of the militarists. And who will suffer? The natural nature of Iceland, by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, please,
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u19	A respectable president. I think we're all at the bottom of the line and we all agree here in this room that this is an important control device, and I'm glad we're in a place where we can handle it, finally, after all this time. I just want to draw up in this discussion and point out that with a larger group, which is, yes, smaller, because it was also cleared considerably from within him, we're only suggesting that things be examined better, end up long in some cases where things need to be better assessed and there's no need to stop doing it in the interest of nature protection in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u20	Mr. President. The nation's electricity issues over the past few years have been maintained. We have even. See it in a frame plan. We've also seen it in connection with the construction of electricity transport system over the last 15 to520 years. It's the tightest system we know in general as the base line. They now look for better directions and begin building, which will at least take a decade if you're doing well. In fact, it is the built - in line that plays a key role in the way we see the maximum limits to our use of green energy as best, the cohesion of electrical energy produced by earth's heat, water, and wind as we face the challenges of the future. In particular, I'm glad that in our panel of members of a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, the wind - power plant is proposed to be placed in a category of innovation. It is then important in all the talk about our energy issues in Iceland that they reflect the balance between economic, social, and environmental factors in the long term, based on the sustainable concept. Then I have a feeling that we're going to consider in terms of the sustainable concept of discussing the climate in a clearer way. There is a difference between environmental and climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u21	Mr. President. There's no other way to find out. There's no way we can't do this. It is, in my opinion, a black spot on a frame plan to deviate from the assessment of the project management without convincing support of new data and an adequate discussion of the matter. So I vote with a change proposal to propose continued protection. Senators who vote by bringing part of a Turbine Being and the glacier in Skavetir from protective care will not come out well in the light of history. And I must say, Mr. President, to speak of the highest. The secretary of the environment here yesterday on a large day of nature protection, where natural spheres all over the country, were small. So little that he used it to kick the Union in Reykjavík instead of starting up and talking out of respect and wide-specture about the natural spheres underneath, but not kicking the Union in Reykjavík. This is the highest-end straw. Environment Minister, but not the global vision we need for the protection of Iceland's nature for years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u22	Mr. President. The Commission's opinion on wind power, with permission from the President, states: The first time in the present motion is to find activation in wind power. The law has no direct comment on this kind of power force, and there has been disagreements as to whether the law is taking over the wind. In view of the greater part, it is clear that activation of wind power involves activation of power and is installed with a power force of 10 MW or more falls below the law's standard range. It shows that the wind is at home in the frame, yet the setting needs to be explained. I'm looking for a reason here. This expression that the wind belongs in the frame really builds nothing. Furthermore, there is no indication of what this will mean for this vital and environmental energy for the future. Mr. President. I don't think it's a good idea. But I agree with what has been said here that it is an achievement that this matter is being placed in a chamber for votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u23	President. It is not responsible for nature protection to transfer natural bulbs from a protection party to a waiting party on political grounds, not on professional grounds. This is not the way to create peace. The conclusion of this frame is the result of the horse purchases that are already classed like left green in a government with an activation class. That is what we watch today, and it is not meant to create peace. We need to protect nature. Protecting nature is a protection for future generations. It is incredibly tragic to see this happening. This, I would have thought, was our main ◯mandts here, to stand guard over Iceland's nature and make sure that future generations will take over this country as we can be proud of it. [[The president calls.]] We've got it all on loan, President, everything, the whole country. [[The president calls.]] We've got this on loan. [[The president calls.]] We don't have it, and we can't go on permanent projects in this country. [[The president calls.]] That's not an option, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u24	The president reminds us that a speech period when members of Congress address a vote is one minute, asking members of the Parliament to respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u25	A respectable president. This is a very important step we take now as we issue a national protection and energy efficiency programme, or the third part of a framework plan. Sustainable global energy is one of the most important issues of the day along with nature protection and climate. Pronunciation of the 3rd step with a motion that involves further opinions of specific energy options is important to the public good and to the protection of nature. This will give me the conviction that we can use the tool frame plan, and we can continue to improve that tool even further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u26	A respectable president. Today I will vote for nature, and I will vote for protection. It may be, though, if any members of the board have forgotten what the word protection means, but it means to put something away, to protect something. That does not mean: Let us take a closer look. Maybe we can just activate it, and we can't destroy it. What excuses. I challenge all of us to follow our convictions and vote with nature and vote for protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u27	A respectable president. Yes, it's an important day for us here at the council. It's a big deal, and I'm glad that after this time, we'll finally have the opportunity to make sure that this is the third box on our part. I would like to emphasize that in the end it is a political decision. We have a set of foundations, and we have a set basis, and then it's our senators in this room to make our own decision about how we want to behave the frame. That power cannot be taken away from us. It is important that we keep in mind how we try to balance our use and protection. But we also need to consider the prosperity, the continued prosperity for our whole society, but also the climate. So it's a done project. We need to be careful. What makes me sad here is that I don't feel that I've managed to arrange a procedure in this way that the process and the frames we're discussing here are trustworthy enough when it comes to the factors I was able to deal with earlier. [[The president calls.]] It's all about political horse purchases. It's quite obvious after this, and perhaps the part that gets the most protection through the box just the government itself, because that's the result of all of this; that's keeping the government together, not considering the balance between innovation and nature. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u28	The president again reminds us of the time when such discussions are limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u29	Mr. President. I am now one of the few members of the current council who took part in accepting the second step of the 2013 Framework Program and was accused of political horse shops, as we do today. I really care about this control device as a frame plan, and now the third phase has been placed four times in four counsellors, and the General will not succeed in overcoming the matter. What we're doing here, what the more part is making up, is expanding the waiting order of the frame program. Now I'll tell you what. Councilmen: Since 2013 there has been no needed option for a waiting party, no one, as it cannot be done. It's spoken of as bringing certain priming ideas into a group that is actually being joined by a waiting party, and I want less of that. A senator is also moving ideas from a group to a waiting party, ideas that have truly been controversial, such as the idea of a rock wave in the highlands where many of us would like to see national parks, ideas of a lower part of Þjótur, which have been very controversial in society. [[The president calls.]] What we're doing here is to set up the 3rd step-by-step framework and at least the task management programme. is an important step for us who believe that this is really an important control tool to ensure the balance of protection and innovation, and I will support the proposals of the greater part. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u30	The President still reminds us of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u31	President. When nature is meant to enjoy the doubt, we do not take the benefits of protection and a waiting party or using them. It's just that way. It is not a matter of giving the benefit of the doubt to nature. The decision has been made to protect certain areas. What, then, if nature is to enjoy the doubt? I don't know what it's like to make that decision. It's very strange. It speaks of the best conviction, the best reconciliation when it is the conviction of members of Congress that matters. It will be very interesting in this vote here, to see in reality the convictions of every senator. That's what we're going to vote about. That is what every senator puts on the table for the people of the country, saying: For this choice I have this conviction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u32	A respectable president. The director of Land Protector, Auður Anna Magnúsdóttir, moved a address here on Eastfield and I'm going to allow myself to read, with the permission of a president, the extraction from her address on the Eastfield yesterday: A greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee suggests that we cast off many years of research on the value of Iceland's natural bulbs. He does not want the values that our main experts have set out to make decisions on the protection and energy use of land areas. Rather, the majority prefers to be pleased with the activation providers. He wants to please those who sell our electricity to the world's worst environmental mess of ridicule and who never seem to be able to get enough. This is what we're paying votes about today. This is the interests opinion that the senators must keep in mind when they vote today. Who are you serving?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u33	A respectable president. The results of this case are a process of much longer exposure to nature protection, a stage in which Steroth and the lower part of Dura are descended from a waiting party. Of course, the big news is that two large lakes are added to the reservation, the river Shiver, and the river Skaftá. These lakes are now waiting to be added to the category of peaceful framed areas that the person here made a great effort to declare peace in the last terms. Of course, I, like other natureists, find it painful to play the challenge here, but this is merely a delay in making a decision but not a death sentence over these areas, as has been claimed. Activation is one of the most controversial issues in the last decades of society, and a structure is simply a matter where no one will be perfectly satisfied. A case that has been successful here during the six years of Generalis treatment, and the one standing here is certainly responsible there. [[The president calls.]] Then I intend to shoulder here today, the responsibility to ensure that strategical planning lives on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u34	A respectable president. A Ramma plan is not only about protection, it is also about the use of resources. Here we are a textbook example of community polarization. This vote here should be, in effect, taught sociology at a university on community polarization, because those who do not have all the advantages for peace are socialists, and those who support much of the community have already left a professional assessment of the conclusion. It's about being professional or political. It's about efficiency or nature protection. I'm not here just to vote for protection. I'm here as the law assumes to vote for protection, for waiting and use. That's what it's all about. Those who are concerned with the fact that a frame plan lives on a compromise to produce a conclusion, just as we are doing here with the majority opinion. The others are thinking of something completely different. I'm going to argue that most of them are thinking about themselves, and they're not credible when they speak in the other word about how important a schedule is to them to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u35	A respectable president. I have been thinking that a framework is a very important control tool, so I have been quite concerned that it was such a long time since we were able to deliver it last, or in January 2013, in a formal way to the Framework 2. I'd like to ask all those who have come up here and talked about politics and horse purchases and things, to be ready to examine the discussion that was then, and even look into their own groups and recall what it was, before we continue. But what is a frame plan about? It's about use, protection and waiting. Of course, the absolute bioavailability does not mean that it will be enabled. However, if it goes under protection, we've already arranged for it to be protected. Waiting is to say that we in here are not ready to make decisions for the future here and now, but that we are ready to take a closer look at it and allow future generations to participate. At least I'm really ready to do that. I'd like to finally say it's an important control device. I want to thank the rest of the part for this control device. A Ramma plan will live with this. [[The president calls.]] Our possibilities for achieving our climate targets also exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u36	A respectable president. I also wanted to appear as chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, commending the Committee and thanking the Commission for a good job in this case, for a clean discussion. They were great and good, and I believe that the discussion and the work the committee did in this case developed the subject into what it has become. I'd like to point out that almost everything that was presented in the leading section's committee program is taken into account. So I regret that the debate over the frame plan was all about politics, not about the professional process that was carried out on the committee and that all members of the committee were involved. [[Up front.]] I would have chosen to have held a frame plan, and I would have taken an honest, sensible, professional conversation about this conclusion below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u37	A respectable president. I am both grateful and proud to finally be able to vote on the box that is an important control device. I'm going to vote for nature and future generations. It's wise to expand the waiting party. We're here on our biggest challenges of the future. I'm going to thank you. The Environment and Transport Committee for having handled this and I'm glad we get a vote on it today. It's about time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u38	President. Those who are concerned that a structured plan is living a compromise. Those were words of the highest order. Secretary of the budget. Looks like a line of Ministers from all categories of the government. All right. The problem here is that the compromise does not take place on the grounds of professional moisture. It's on the grounds of the politicians. It's just obvious. Three groups have agreed on what they're going to keep inside a reservation and what goes on, and everyone may have had three possibilities: I'm going to get this in and out and that in. That led to that conclusion. That's obvious. It's not on professional reasoning. This sums up all the political issues. That sums up what is meant by that government. Yeah, yeah. All right, it's important that the frame succeed, not a frame that comes from three different categories, with a completely different view of the future and products and the nature of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Then it's always a compromise that's just a political horse deal. [[The president calls.]] This is tragic, since nature must suffer for it. The people must suffer for it, and that is why I stand here talking about future generations, for I cannot see that they were kept in mind when that decision was made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u39	A respectable president. A whole Ramma plan was last planned here on the basis of the proposal of what is being said here in the spring of 2013, or nine years ago. The lead was a long, important vision, and a balance of innovation and protection, a number of scientists, professionals, naturalists were involved at various levels. The Senate ended the payment on a delicate balance, a conclusion that has been based on since then. And today it is finally time to make a suggestion here, where the gentle step is taken, where the waiting party is growing, still a delicate balance but the forwarding of nature protection. We left greens and we could view them, that is one of our most urgent matters in politics from now on. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u40	A respectable president. We're here to vote first, second and third on nature, nature protection. We're supposed to be on nature's side. I just have to say, as it is, my generation is natureized, has been badly treated by nature. I'm going to vote with my grandchildren and grandchildren for them to keep their nature. I believe in this framework there are certain things that have not stopped supporting at all. We have to be careful when we get started, so we'll be careful to find a way that affects the natural world. We haven't done that in this frame plan, and that's why I won't be supporting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u41	V.E.G. President. Less than a year, two political groups, the forward party and the Independence Party, have been serving in the government indefinitely since 2013. It's these two classes that have prevented 2016 from being replaced by the third stage of the Framework Programme here at the High Council. Now it's clear why. This is because they could not accept the professional assessment of the Project Management Board that the Shire Lakes and the Kullldans belong in a protection category. It is, and thus, the ideologies of removing from protection are that there is just no opinion, professional or political, or the legal basis on which this framework is based. This is what we're protesting. We are not protesting that there is a move and allow nature to enjoy the doubt. We're protesting this will happen. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u42	A respectable president. Yeah, the frame plan is a very important control device and I'm happy to vote on it today. But just like what? paritaprevir Þórunn to Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddottir, two of the three classes in Iceland's government have been disturbed by the fact that this important instrument has gone to vote at the Assembly Hall since 2013. V.E.G. Social and workforce minister told us we have to play the wait to put Kilile Claw and Shire Lakes in Skavetir for a waiting party. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We do not have to play that waiting game. We can stand up for the nature of Iceland and the future. We can decide to share the professional views of the task management board, which said exactly that this should be in no way a waiting factor but a protection class. Finally, I'd like to ask, "Where's the highest? " Environment Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u43	V.E.G. Environment Minister has an alibi today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u44	A respectable president. Yes, there is a big day here today when we vote on a frame plan that has actually been frozen since 2013. The Government Treaty states that it is a will to replace frame 3 and that it is willing to expand the waiting party in a frame plan. The proposals here for us today from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee are just increasing the waiting party. There is a delay-separation option and a waiting advantage. The only option that has been put into use and moved from a company is the bourgeois plant, the wind power option, which is a very important and positive step for us, for the government and for us as a nation to fulfill the commitments we have made regarding energy exchange, which I understand everyone has agreed on across the classes here during the last term. And one nothing of carbon in the year 2040, where we are going to be free of fossil fuels. To meet our commitments, we need exercise in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u45	President. We receive professional food here for the council, a professional evaluation based on the fact that nature enjoys the doubt. An excellent estimate is that there are certain benefits to be taken for protection. It would be wise to expand the waiting party, but then, of course, we'll do it from a protective group to a waiting party, for like a Kristófersson. paritaprevir We have to take a complete view of the frame plan. As a result, we may take the careful approach and need to take a closer look when the vision becomes clear. However, details have been taken about the factors to be protected. It doesn't change. It is absolutely pointless to bring something that has been decided on professional grounds that we should be protected, that we need something with a precaution, and say, "No, we're going to put it on hold. That won't be necessary. So I don't understand the language that's been here with the executives. [[The president calls.]] It is very simple to make a professional decision about that party at the council and to keep this option under protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u46	Mr. President. We all were encouraged by the minister of the oracle to examine ourselves, but I didn't hear him mention e.g. played a role in the development of the third leg of a frame plan, and when he was a minister, it was all too late. He was sitting on the case for a year and a half. His first job in the Ministry, however, was to prevent the enlargement of the reservation in the Red Sea, making it possible for the land to drive this propaganda through the council. Who will examine his inner person here in the hall? Now, or the 2017●2021 government that put together a frame plan, a highland park, and a national park so firmly that all three of them went into the corrosion. There are four lost years in this process of responsibility. The good reason for bringing these two areas out of protective custody is not one, so let's be absolutely clear. U.S.I. is giving in to the coverts of Legislation that the classification was illegal. They've been refuted by the Ministry. With the Lakes of the Shire, the protection value is unambiguous and is listened to the corrosiveness of the Communion Society because it wants its activation. [[The president calls.]] This is what the box lives on. It is heard from the counsellers of all the administrations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Who threatened to kill him? There was no one at all, except for the primeists in the government. [[The president calls.]] The class that once taught itself to protect nature can now be understood that it is not only important who is in charge but who is controlled. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u47	The president needs to remind us that the speech period is very limited when it is possible for members of Congress to address a vote and ask the members of the Parliament to respect it. That's equal to everybody.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u48	A respectable president. Control is turning everything upside down. A team president of the left green speaks as if moving the protection class to a waiting party is somehow done in the interest of environmental protection. I couldn't understand him any other way. Of course, this is absurd, and everyone sees it. The Ministers then talk like the horse market on the Environment and Transport Committee, this snouting, ill-sighted majority opinion being presented here until the end of the council, cleared out at the end of the season, provided some kind of survival for the whole process, for the framework. But like a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi came in on them. It's quite an expansive statement. What the directors are actually saying, what they are actually acknowledging is that it is the determination of the fiercest calls, perhaps the fiercest advisers, to kill a frame plan, to hold it hostage if they don't get what they want. I reject this statement and, of course, will be having a professional approach, professional reasoning here today and a normal balance between protection and innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u49	Mr. President. Here's where I suggest that Idle activation is removed from temporary use, like the other two activations of the lower Þjóððði. You see, all the talk of the greater part of the committee list that these three fortresses should be viewed as a single entity if not followed by the konsical decision to delay all three. And, of course, it is not by chance that it is the immediate reaction of the WHACs to the point that it is the second act of activation. It is the simple activation that must be suspended for further consideration. But no, with the same logic as the two activations are suspended by the board of directors, they are not available to move a third. This is because there should be no interference with the activation provider's interests. Impulsive activation is not intended to give up, and the rulers obey.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u50	A respectable president. There's been a lot of talk about the frame plan, that it's too extensive, and we make too big decisions at once, and we even have many inside the memory of the section, and in general, it's considered proper that a frame plan should come into my steps. One of the decisions we made here in this matter was to suggest that the following frame should come in my steps. It was also decided in this process, to cover the process and to complete it, that we would not go into the arms of the previous frame plans, what has been agreed on at the International Assembly before. Therefore, it was decided that both the Cradle and the Crooking that will be the next motion would not be discussed now, since the Generals had agreed to that process before. However, I would like to know that a law on a protection and energy efficiency strategy assumes that the task management can re-create, is a reason for this, and that is a factor in our committee's activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u51	A respectable president. It saddens me if it really is that everyone here is Why. Senators paying votes according to their own convictions because it is not a good look at this table of votes against important areas of protection, to our nature. It may be some kind of contract people are willing to make. But I'm waiting. Congress officials are concerned about the value of their convictions. Is she really worth the sacrifice for this government work? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u52	Mr. President. This is where I once again invite the board members to be parties to themselves. Insecting of the home of a waiting class with exactly the same logic as those in the management board suggest that the use of a waiting session should be replaced. That's exactly the same argument, actually stronger. A series of gangs is in the middle of the country, perhaps near a supernova, but the vastness surrounding them is used as an argument with government officials to hold it in place. Here I suggest that I bring a whalering, which is in the highlands of the West, that's a wide area to defend. Adding to this, which makes this activation even more professional, is the fact that since it was first classified to the energy generation, environmental assessments have developed that were negative. There was a very negative view of this activation, so there is all evidence that if people intend to follow themselves, they are moving this activation from a waiting period to reevaluate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u53	A respectable president. I choose by nature, I prefer by nature on the West. I choose with the beauty of the beach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u54	A respectable president. I'm not going to go into all that shit. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee explained in this regard to the payment of this, but would like to add to the fact that in particular in the review of the law there is a greater improvement in this process, i.e. when it comes to the decision of the Generalis, how we might address the matter in other ways in the project management and what steps we need to take in this context. So I reject this suggestion, but I still support nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u55	Mr. President. I choose by nature, said what. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. I have a feeling that very many voters thought they were voting with nature when they chose the last election and the last election. I'm just gonna be honest. I understand that on a administrative basis, compromises have to be made. I understand that even if it is difficult at times and that difficult decisions may be made. But I've always understood compromises, such as meeting the data operator and getting something in return. I just have to say, after my last term there was a lot I didn't divorce this government team. I couldn't understand why the left greens were leaving all their princes. I thought to myself, " Yeah, okay, that must be for the environment. ' It must be the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u56	A respectable president. As I came in before then on the same thing here we are not filming Generalis's previous decisions because the process, the professional process to which it should be connected, has not been performed and we're sliding that it needs to be explained better. But I'd also like to point out, and it made it clear to the West Coast and West Coast representatives and others, that the Council has also paid a previous vote that energy and cosmological development in the West should take priority, so it is important that we answer it before we begin to change something. I'm not saying that Whaleá is the key. It gives us time to review it in whole, and then we have this review of the law. So I have the suggestion that we have made here, so I say no to this and I don't think I need to report it here that I stand with nature, which, of course, I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u57	President. This is a new arrangement, which includes that the Lakes of the Shire and the Cave Dax keep their position as a protection group. Of course, the council has a political responsibility and is to shoulder it, but it must be shouldered with strong logic when it is being brought in by a series of protective initiatives, and unfortunately, the greater part has fallen on that test because the argument for this movement is certainly in damages and does not hold water. So we must be very careful in these matters. Granted, the decision to activate it is not being made, but it is still taking activation options from protection and moving to a waiting party. [[The president calls.]] Protection is a protection, was said to be of the highest order. Minister, but protection is not protected if the protection can be taken off without logical support. [[The president calls.]] [[The Senator says?]] - The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u58	A respectable president. Here, representatives of Pirata, United States and the Environment and Transport Committee for Environment and Transport are suggesting to submit to the decision of the head of the Committee to transfer the Shire Lakes and the Reservation of Veservation to a waiting party. The agreement that the framework was intended to create depends on making decisions professionally. Therefore, it is not intended to refer to the parties of the administration. Their proposal is based, not on professional reasoning, but on political horse purchases. I encourage everyone. Councilmen to support this adjustment proposal. - Hv. A senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u59	V.E.G. President. Now we've got what. Councilmen have the opportunity to support this proposal and to ensure that the Shire Lakes and Kjelldunluta remain in a protective category, as requested by Project Three Plans. I hear here from the Ministers' class that people think it's just about some sort of classification, and they haven't decided at all. I'm warning you about that case. This is a very clear political signal for this proposal. There is clear evidence that the professional reasoning is irrelevant, that protection values can always be turned aside. We don't want those who make this suggestion and its supporters, and that's why we say yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u60	Mr. President. Here we are offering the professional, grammatical conclusion that came out of the task management framework for two valuable areas of nature, on the one hand, the natural world, which would be impaired by the Kallduda and by the other, the activations of the Shire Lakes. There was no indication of this on the environmental and transport committees to bring about a loss on the environment and on the value of these areas. The only thing that came up was innuendo, which for half a century has come from wanting to destroy a Þrjörður and must be stopped. This government power company has to stop fighting with people in the South and drown Thematians. On the other hand, there was evidence from the prime worker in Skavegur, who, of course, the government swallows. There is no professional evidence, however. Therefore, in the context of the environment and transport committee, we suggest that the results of the project management should be submitted to this level of protection. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u61	Mr. President. The media, the political horse shop. I think everybody agrees that that's what's going on here. I'd like to ask you something. Councilmen left green: for what? Because I haven't seen it yet, I don't yet realize what you're getting in return, really talk, honestly. I thought this was what you'd get instead of cutting off refugees' rights, the one thing that's supposed to improve the rights of immigrants, that's to improve the rights of gay people and other things that are completely beyond financial resources, and that's just for a punt. What do you get in return? I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u62	Hv. A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u63	Hv. A senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u64	I'll say yes to this proposal because we're gonna have some professional food that we need to study here. The good record focuses on the fact that these are aspects of the areas to be protected. When I think of nature as enjoying the doubt, it's a very easy decision. However, it is more difficult to make a decision when the professional conclusion says it can be activated. Whether to engage then is another question; it is much more difficult to answer that question. It is very easy to answer that question. The results of professional assessments have been that there are important areas to protect. If, in fact, people really intend to give the benefit of the doubt to nature, it is not even possible to say something other than yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u65	Hv. A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u66	I started that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u67	A respectable president. I vote with nature. I'm guarding the natural bulbs. The Red Sea and the Lakes of the Shire. A respectable president. I understand the word protection, and I suggest that members of the body look it up in a dictionary. A respectable president. I make decisions on professional grounds, so I vote for my children and grandchildren. So I say loud and clear:
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u68	A respectable president. I think it is important to start by saying that the Lakes here are, of course, today in the current hold programme and have been since 2013, so there is no change. But to the point. When we talk about the Lakes of the Shire, when we talk about the Red Sea, there is no question that there is much natural value there and there is no natural value going anywhere. The natural value will remain there. The evaluation of the project management will then come to mind and suggest how they will be classified. What is being done here is that the waiting party is simply being extended, and the decision is being delayed, just as it is currently being delayed. Finally, I have to refuse that this place is drowning. What a political twist of the worst kind, people's trinkets that I find hard to sit in here. We have a waiting game in nature protection. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u69	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u70	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u71	President. An excellent conclusion to the project management framework was to protect Kililecopy and Shire Lakes. This so - called compromise by the government parties turns to abandoning that decision, not on professional reasoning, but on political issues, and takes these natural bulbs from protection to a waiting party. The value, president, lost - you can only see that this is the first step to more active. That's the danger. The concern is when you can withdraw from protection to wait this way without any professional reason. Of course, that's what worries you. The prices lost in activation projects are simply invaluable, and the changes and gaps that will occur in the region are irreversible. The priorities of big business interests and profits ahead of nature's interests are overwhelmingly shortsighted. That's what we're doing today. I say yes, of course we're supposed to protect these areas, and of course we're not supposed to do compromises in political horse trades.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u72	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u74	Mr. President. I vote by this change proposal which includes the provision of the Kalldalists and the Lakes of the District of Skavetir to protect the task force. I'd like to review a question of what. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who discussed the box at General Assembly in 2017, with the permission of a president: ▪ Of course, there are many good things in the program that is now being submitted unchanged from the previous council, especially with regard to the Guardian Party, and may not be surprised that I especially enjoy it. I watch them film them for Shiver Creek, Skaft River, and other factors, as well as for the Norwegian Age, which has been a significant consideration in this hall in recent years. And then, of course, the earth's lakes of Skavegur. I'm the highest. Prime Minister to follow the stand of Senator Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. She had a lot to say to her. This is a very important thing. Here is an opportunity to follow her decision, her conviction in 2017. It's not that long ago. They're suggesting a very important change. I say yes, and I encourage everyone to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u75	Mr. President. We're supposed to be a patron class of the U.S. Marshals and the ice floors of Skavetirs. It was the professional proposal of a project administration, the proposal made by a minister to the General, and I don't think that there has been any convincing evidence for anything else. There may be a special protection party for this government, but I think these spheres of nature can be, too. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Hv. A senator says?]] - Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u76	A respectable president. I have to say, when discussing these matters, I often get bored with the obsession. Either it seems that people are on a highland to plant or to live in a highland with a grave, somehow as if there were never any interstate between them. We have an opportunity to take a stand on our own, and if we are to reach some conclusion, we need to do so with reason. If a person is going to play some sort of wait, as is said of us, he must do it with reason. There's no logic. Therefore, people do not play delay, there must be argument behind waiting. I'm gonna say yes to this suggestion because it's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u77	Mr. President. This proposal of a larger portion actually sprang like the demon from the sheep arm here a week ago after we had tried to solve the fog surrounding the management committee in the Environmental and Transport Committee during the past month. At last, they agreed on compromise, and it is proper to keep in mind what it involves. It involves giving in to the activation counselor by allowing a waiting category in two areas, the Lakes of the Shire and the Cave Institute, by means of false reasoning, that this was some vague classification of protection. It was just a perfectly good class. On the other hand, some of these virtual ossuary in the nature protection sector are moving the two fortresses to the Þjórðar with the same logic that they do not exist to bring the Investment and activation of the Þjótur, which are most at risk. I'm going to hope that those who have the best of health are especially following this payment, and I realize that in the shelter the management are acting as if they're giving the candidate this proposal is not a safe haven. It's just a fake.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u78	A respectable president. Today, we have approved a vote for the future of Iceland's nature. The political class that has taught itself to the environment has finally shown that its soul can be sold and removed from all values just to remain in power.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to stress that it is important that we take up a frame plan here today and I think it's a good step. We must remember, though, that this is a compromise between the members of the administrations alone, not directly across the council. I think it is important that we members of the Parliament also take a political stand on the basis of the data available on this balance between protection and innovation, whatever it is we have to use to maintain the community and the prosperity. What happened on the committee, however, is that it is fully developed in a committee view. There was no discussion, no space to settle across the hall, across groups. They needed political courage to achieve this vital reconciliation in a framework of such a precious and vital step. It was just between the government parties to keep the government alive. But that's why, because of the importance of taking this step and putting it together, we're going to sit next to this counter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u80	Mr. President. Last night, we were visited by natureists and gave us this kind of pinball, some of whom we have. It's a cell showing the falls of Denk, the majority of the board members, to see if it's not all right to dry up with KIG. It is the political compromise that has not been associated with any real evidence or professional views that have been observed during the conference treatment. It's a heavy day for the people we met yesterday who waited for us to do better with their frame plan. It is a heavy day for the people who for half a century have been fighting for protection against the superpowers of nature, yet they may have had a backdrop in political movements that took protection against nature's arms. [[The president calls.]] But I think their movement just dropped by one more day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u81	V.E.G. President. The changes here have been agreed on to step 3 of the Framework Programme must be responsible for the three board of directors. Hence, members of the United States sit at this vote. An Environment and Transport Committee, discussed the matter at the Assembly Hall, has made it clear that we support the device, covering a framework plan. We support the methodology to classify the benefits of practicality, waiting, and protecting. It doesn't matter how it's done, and it's all about it. That is why we are embarrassed by this final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u82	A respectable president. It is our job here in this national hall to reach a decision in matters. In this matter of the framework, and in the laws on protection and use of energy, it is assumed that professional assessments and professional work will be introduced here to the General, where all council members should evaluate other factors that can affect the final outcome. It is government policy, reveals commitment, and then it's just global issues and other things we have to sort out. I welcome it, and it's a big step we're taking now by reaching this conclusion. We're doing our job. We're here to ensure an agreed frame plan which is a big step forward, so I'm saying, "Congratulations, Iceland."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u83	Yes, a respectable president, in order not to extend this discussion about the vote, I just want to review that here we're going to vote on three of my affairs about blue tuna fish on seawater and on the development of seafood for trade. I want to thank the Committee for a very good job. I know there are some opinions, and there aren't all the relationships at the end, but most of all, the Committee worked very well, and I want to thank you for that and expect much of the work with a professional committee. It's a good partnership, thanks to a good job board, and then at the meeting, there's one more bill for a discussion, and then I'll just do this in order to increase the tension in the hall as well, to explain my position on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u84	Known as the innovation of the fishing industry provides new opportunities for sustainable use of marine resources and our experience in the present fishing system makes it evident that this bill is to be supported. However, I would like to point out that the debates that have developed about the fishing system, the social appeal for change and, in fact, the will of this government, at any rate, to cope with some kind of change, such as the initiative. Food minister shows, has been able to make such changes. It is never easier to experiment with a change in the system than when it is assigned to new species that have not been assigned before. Of course, changes in this bill will not be made. I will support this as well as the restoration of all of us, but I will bear the highest. A food minister should be next on such occasions and should be used to begin developing a long - term solution of greater agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u85	One step to make a general analysis of how we will evaluate the school system, the opportunities we want our children to face, and part of it is how the consistent study evaluation should be conducted, and surely we need to review it. Since I'd like to do here, it's simply to call attention to the positive things I thought were positive. and many positive aspects of this matter are that there are two young students who came and gave their own comments on the subject, and I think it is good to know that our young people are conscious of this community to share in the shape of their future. They support the case, Daniel Þröstur Pálsson and Ríkharður, flókið Bjarkason, and I'm going to do the same. But I think it's evidence that there's a lot going on out there, including... In the head of our kids, we use the power they have and listen a little before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u86	Yes, a respectable president. I want to be the head of the Economic and Business Committee to mention that this is currently implementing an EEA directive that is already fully implemented here on land, apart from four branches. This induction is required so Iceland meets its commitments according to the EEA Convention. I'd appreciate to mention that the EFTA Agency has formally started a trial for Iceland at its full implementation. With the approval of the bill, our centre will be among the stop-of-the-art, deposit-of-employment insurance in the European Economic Area as well as the branch over 49% of the loyalty of credit institutions that are not considered systematically important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u87	Mr. President. I may not be telling the United States any news that all of us have received a distress call from their sea - service professionals. The lack of regard for or proper exposure to the views of these organizations was simply not granted to the audience, the people who are caring for the interests of those about whom these laws are concerned. Environmental and Transport Committee. The next day after a sailor's day, a majority decided to resolve the matter. Talk about cold greetings to sailors. In our memory, this liberal proposal seems unacceptable. Let us therefore allow the matter to be sent up to the Ministry to be properly employed. This makes it possible to finish with the people that these laws deal with. Isn't that the minimum?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u88	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the expansion of the continuum transfunctioner in the operation of electrical law. During the talk, there is an expansion of the three fortresses of the Þjótur. Power increase. Energize applications are important in changing or coping with the variable demand for electricity. They're increasing flexibility in the electrical power system. Here we pay votes that will help improve the use of electrical energy, the nation's system, which today is highly maligned at the work of the energy policy committee. During the last term, it was found that the Icelandic electrical system was a total failure. The system was only about 75% using this power law bill. There's an enlargement of the continuum transfunctioner. Achieving the use of electricity systems, serving more on our valuables, green energy is being used in the best way, in the best way, by the interaction of the powerful electrical transport systems, by hydropowers, by geotherms, and by wind energy, contributes to achieving our goals in connection with climate. For the year 2040, this bill was welcomed by a non-carbon community. This is good. Here's the smart thing to say, votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u89	A respectable president. Here's another big step we're taking today with regard to the energy issues, nature protection and the way to achieve the best level of agreement between protection and innovation because if it's not just talking about growth, activation, increased energy, it's also increasing power that makes it, like the driving force. paritaprevir The use of the continuum transfunctioners that we have already done better, thus reducing the need for other larger activations, has been reported by over here by Njáll Trausti. So this is a very good step forward, and hopefully it will bring us along well in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u90	Mr. President. In the foundation, it is wise and positive that the current activations can be extended without breathing them through the framework process, which may be too large and still take over to make little changes. However, in these last days, I have found a measure of security if we consider this matter in relation to the payment of the Framework Programme. Now pressured and moved bush, has been held in wait, and although such projects would never be directly linked to those of foreigners. It turns out that economic political pressures in the bush are becoming increasingly apparent as the activations can be expanded in the Þjótur after some hurry. Unfortunately, we didn't have time to take a good look at this on the environment and transport committee, so I'm going to be sitting by the subsidies of this case as much as I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u91	President. This is a simple adjustment of the law, Sverrisson, the law in terms of local elections. It's rather than allowing local authorities to determine a higher percentage, higher inclusion threshold, just a higher inclusion threshold, allowing the local authorities to have another proportion, also lower threshold, more leeway for the rural government to set population democracy within their community. That's all we're getting out of our way to rurals, very simple. So I guess I'll just say what I'm gonna do. Senators, of course, to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u92	A respectable president. This is a very important case of support for a innovation company. Is that the next thing? What case would it be, too? Admittedly, it is important that I, too, repay my whole mind and return to the next language that I will discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u93	Mr. President. We in the Central Party shall support this case, but I would like to use this opportunity to draw attention to what was presented by the Chairman of the Honorable Professional Commission in connection with the payment of this case, that the decision has been made to look at the overall impact that the matter was adopted in a way that is now being made so that the case would be negative in the specific budget of the cost of this operation is looked forward to the overall impact. It's a novelty. There have been repeated references to issues involving the future. that the authority of an older citizen, a pensioner to enjoy a higher standard of leisure being the same but it has not been willing, and I just hope that this is a change of policy by the government that we will see going on at the next council, where the busiest senior citizen will be greatly increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u94	Yes, Mr President, I am very pleased that this case has been published, and it seems to me all that it was done only to a positive and positive committee that I support. Then only the conditions needed to meet were changed. I have no doubt about it, though I generally feel that we need to take a good look at this, if we are giving some kind of appeal to a particular profession, that the particular situation of this case is that we should support it, and I think that the effect of this case is tremendously positive on the creative articles here in Iceland, Icelandic filmmaking, Icelandic culture. We are integrating Icelandic culture, Icelandic landscapes, and I support this whole mind, and I would also like to draw attention to an excellent positive side product of this language, which is that it also strengthens in its own way under the Icelandic media.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u95	The government, or this government, during the last term has been involved in this environmental catalyst system and many examples show themselves in the past few months and years how much this has paid for the Icelandic economy, and there is no need to look far beyond the dose to find these examples, and I would like to mention three games. Instead of moving abroad according to government decisions, the 1939 James company has already increased its resources and has doubled the number of employees. Finally, medical, which has helped ten million people around the world to enjoy a better report of health. In the middle of a pandemic, the number of jobs has increased by less than 40% and investments in research and development has doubled. This increase in business has provided tax pay fund, with a number of increases in government reimbursement due to research and development. The third is the recruitment of less than excellent carbon, global disposal projects that have chosen Iceland as their destination, including Because of the changes we've made in innovation and the environment. Three brief examples that tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u96	A respectable president is on the right side that I wanted to declare, first of all, that Porta's council is supporting this case, and I can agree with it with the highest degree. Secretary of the university, industry and innovations, Álaugur the Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. That's a lot of money to pay off. That is why it is incomprehensible that the government has intended to lower the reimbursement rate on the contrary to the promise made in a government contract, and it is well known that the greater part of a financial and business committee has decided to stand up and decide to fulfill the commitment made in a government contract, thereby taking a change from what. paritaprevir The Giislaun Rafnur's Gísun Ólafsson to maintain these proportions unchanged, as promised in a government contract. I reiterate what I said yesterday: " How fast and how willing the government was to take back their words immediately by one of those few clear promises in a government covenant does not promise the value of this government contract of his worth in the minds of government officials. ' Hv. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u97	President. This is a series of important support for the innovation sector in Iceland. After I finished my first discussion, I made a adjustment, so that the support given would be maintained. It is my great pleasure that the Economic and Business Committee took these ideas, so I have canceled my adjustment proposal so that more part of the Economic and Business Committee will be the one we vote on here. But I know that on behalf of innovation to do as in Iceland, I thank the General for continuing this vital support. Honored.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u98	Þórsdóttir will discuss a vote. A respectable president. This is supported, and strongly supported, and we rejoice in this foretold change. We repeated to the last council the proposal for this to be a permanent position of support. At that time, it was the same government government, but now it is blessed, so I especially want to celebrate it. I would also like to stress that it is a pleasure to see how the innovation environment has been developing in an enormously positive and strong way, but I would also like to remind you that one of the main requests from innovation companies and executives in innovation companies, 70% of those who control the innovation companies, points to the greatest obstacle of Icelandic dollars. One day we must start talking about the obstacle to getting it out so that innovation companies can thrive even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u99	A respectable president. Here we are suggesting that the level of reimbursement remain unchanged from the provisional regulations contained in the law. I'm of the opinion that an Icelandic company, a new creation company, had legitimate expectations that this peak would remain unchanged, and therefore another less part of this change and cause it. paritaprevir Lóa Thorsdóttir's Þórsdóttir is with me on this proposal. There is a full review of this series of languages. It would be right to change them, but not before this revision has taken place because what all the reporters called after was stability, to stop this rounding process by means of this legislation. Then I'd like to remind you that while it's a good thing that it's being extended for a year, that's the payment rate, it's only a year, and I remind you that in the government contract, payoffs would be made permanent. It is not to extend a provisional principle to improve reading ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u100	One thing, of course, that was particularly decided during a pandemic, and this government cannot be accused of a rounding system in the environment, where every desire, innovation, and environment wanted a few years ago has been fulfilled and better than that, and the assessment will be made at OECD, which will come right back in the fall and I will process them. I look forward to having that assessment, where we are in the competitive environment of other countries, and where we can do better. The government made it clear in a government contract to continue this and the rich will to do so, and I look forward to its execution, making long - term suggestions with the highest standards. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u101	A brief further appeal to those who have enough money to hire electric cars while making the money that could be used into the state fund to back up the groups that housed their feet in the current situation. 5.5 billion is more than the government's counterrequisite action against inflation for low - income groups introduced with a popupu and recently the price of action will be costing it. For low income groups, there are 4.7-6.5 billion.2 billion. Those who can afford electrical vehicles will receive 5.5 billion operations for the worst available home in a swamp form, which is here in the name of a political policy to be given to those who are successful in buying an electrical vehicle for about five million, 5.5 billion. Although the goal is good, this priority is in the light of circumstances that are totally out of control. So the people's party will not support 2 st. The bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u102	A respectable president. Pirat's House supports this case but suggests some changes in what I'm going to explain here. First, we are suggesting to take steps toward a more righteous exchange of energy by improving my methadone cars, that of car groups that enjoy this injury, because it is less expensive automobiles that are available to lower incomes. We've seen it in the data available in this case that there's only one of the richest people in the country who can afford to buy a new electrical vehicle and thus enjoy this remuneration. Methane trucks. Newers are much less expensive. In addition, we are making a sound provision for this dinner to be paid by stepping in, so that if a person has received a car or a family, he or she will receive only half of the money. If an individual or family has two or more cars for them, they will not be reimbursed because we are not strengthening the fact that even a third, a fourth, or a fifth car with a discount from the State. This is not to be the purpose of such subsidies, not the spirit of energy exchange to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u103	The money paid, a respectable president, in this case, also lacking link cars, is quite remarkable that they have been picked out because of this. Most of those on contact trucks are able to drive up to 80◯90% within town without having to use fuel. But there is something else in this matter that will always be forgotten. It is that in the years when cars for disability have not gone up, the limit is that they are being in want and give people the opportunity to buy electricity cars, that those who are and really have cars, disabled people who cannot afford to spend these things without waiting, are up - to - date, so that they can at least buy these cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u104	The president asks: "Is there a little legal issue where this case was approved? The original estimate was that a light - wheeled two - wheeled vehicle registered in a driver's record would receive the discount that other electric vehicles receive. However, there was a change in the road route to traffic, and there was a release. He should have relieved a car wheel of two groups from being registered on a driver's license, and then all of a sudden, because it was allowed to be registered to a driver's license and to receive the discount, it was no longer being added to these defects, which were actually caused by changing the traffic laws so that now with your light wheels in class two receive discounts? No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u105	I think it's normal to support a demolition of the valuable tax system for rescue teams and support them. However, at this point I do not feel that it is appropriate to support a straddle on a sink of 5,000 pure energy cars. I don't have the conviction that this is right at this point for many reasons. We're on one side talking about thawing, but on one side, we're doing a bit more work. Here's a priority, we're going to prioritize money, and I just want to say that I don't think it's the right priorities at this point, and I'd also like to point out the comments of young environmentalists who thought it wasn't a priority for financial management right to reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u106	Sveinsdóttir says something about a vote. Yes, a respectable president. This is a very important issue, including the following: to complete the coordination of pension rights in all the labour markets and contribute to the sustainable sustainability of the biofuel system so that each generation will live under its own pension rights. I have worked within the Penitentiary Department on both the management of two funds as well as on the behalf of the National Association of Pension Funds, so dear members of Congress. I'd like to repeat my words from last night's discussion because for some reason most were not there. So I'd like to repeat the fact that our system is good, and here in Iceland, it's not always going to be all we can get. But the fact that we've done this 50 years ago is that we've been able to establish a pension fund system in the form that it is now the ideal quality of the nation, which we shall all unite to protect, to speak up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u107	Lóa Þórsdóttir. A respectable president. Time to study. The bill has been very small, and these issues are quite complex. 40% of the senators are new members of Congress, and I just ask them, "What's going on?" It is said that this bill is based on a labour agreement from 2016, which is correct, with the permission of the President: At a review of ASI's labour agreement and SA on a pensional matter to be completed by the end of May 2016, individuals will be allowed to make up a partial or complete 3.5% increase in pay results in the remuneration of the employee to facilitate employees and retirement and to increase flexibility. Quotation complete. I'll call attention to what. Parliamentaries of the sentence: The individual will be allowed to account for the increase in the payer's contribution to the special property. According to the bill, this court has been removed and placed in the hands of the pension fund. 17 framers sent in or 17 members sent in envelopes, and they were divided into two different categories of the bill. Hence, 12 and three took a decisive stand. It's about bill, and time is way too short to learn about it. So I'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u108	A respectable president. This matter came very late to the council, and it would have had to be much more extensive than in view of a lack of time. I made a thorough account of the comments I have with the bill in my talk late this evening. Yeah, me as if I can't repeat it all here. What may have been high was that I made a comment to the politicians in making it possible for people to make the most of their life savings to buy their first house on their first estate is constantly being pumped into the demand side. By no means are we doing enough on the forward side, and we are not always putting people in a position to take from their life savings to get a house over our heads. To do so, we have better tools to fulfill this fundamental human rights to have a roof over their heads. We are always allowed to borrow from ourselves. That is not necessarily commendable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u109	A respectable president. All the works of men are controversial, and they certainly are. I know this case from 2016 when I was one of those who signed a collective agreement, and the goal of this bargain was primarily to balance pension rights between markets, from 12% to 15.5 or subsidies so that those who were working on the general market would have the same kind of pension rights, those who were in the public sector to settle views at the time, were prepared for this so-called special property which was no purpose in themselves, but because of the nonunification of the labor movement, they had to create the same kind of resources that have, which, in fact, had to, at least, been in the public with the term, and are understandable. But they only have this authority to decide whether you have this special property or not. This is my time, and I'm responsible. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u110	It speaks of a vote. A respectable president. We in the Union strongly support the rise of the minimum amount of insurance that is proposed in this bill that we also support the change in social security payments and pension fees from pension funds, however, we may not be given adequate attention to any kind of legal adjustment that may be in order to weaken the overall security potential of the pension system, and we believe that some of this bill has not been adequately discussed and considered. Other than that, our views are explained in a committee party I spoke here yesterday and we're on, me and the... paritaprevir Pirata, Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u111	A respectable president. As noted earlier, in the House of Princes and on the ground, we support the United Nations, but we believe that the change between the pension pay and the legal agreements of an insurance agency that is being proposed on this bill is in order, that we feel that the separation between the old impairment, the arrangement, and the new and the legal issues associated with these terms would have required a more thorough examination within the committee and will therefore sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u112	T.D. Brutus Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of the greater part of the General and Education Committee for the Committee on Elements for a bill to compromise the law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background. The committee has discussed the matter again with a second and third discussion, and it is considered to be open. The committee specifically discussed whether the bill refers to a new act of proselytizing the prohibition against blasphemy. The majority of the committee emphasizes that it is not the intention of the Lawgiver with this bill to rule out the prohibition against blasphemy, but its regulations were removed from public law, No. 19/190, with law No. 43/2015. The majority of the objects refer to that time. 1st par. track No. 85/2018 and apply to equal treatment of individuals in all domains of the community regardless of identified differences. The majority of the committees believe that in view of the values and objectives of the law it is clear that all individuals will receive equal treatment in society and individuals will not be exposed to discrimination on the basis of the differences factors specified. The majority of the items perfunctory views shown in a paper with the bill, which, for example, says: it is important to consider that, on the basis of the above-mentioned differences, there are no cases of discrimination. Similar treatment should always be given to individuals in comparable circumstances. Similarly, there should be no difference between individuals who are not in comparable circumstances unless it is possible to justify such treatment in a grammatical way with a legitimate objective. Different treatments on the basis of the differential factors involved in this imaging. Therefore, it is also necessary to consider the limits of freedom of expression on the basis of 73rd. the Constitution and the individual protection against discrimination. There should not be any discrimination in the sense of the law that individuals belong to the specific differences in a group, such as sexual orientation. So much cannot agree with the view that belonging to a group that may be insulting to another group can be viewed as a challenge in the sense of the law. A fundamental factor is that human rights of one group cannot justify human rights of another group or that they cannot justify human rights of another group are impaired. A greater proportion also points out that the former 125th gr. a general penalties, which have now been excommunicated by law, were concerned with publicly subjugating or challenging religious doctrines or the worship of a legal religion. In contrast, the aim of a law on equal positions outside the work market is to protect individuals from discrimination, such as by their own beliefs or principles, so that people can be sure that they can have any religion or alive they choose without being influenced by discrimination in the community or being inferior to their service on that basis. It is fundamental that all should be equal in law and enjoy human rights. 1.mg. 65. g. The Constitution, as well as it is important to establish an increased legal protection for people who are more likely to be affected by discrimination on the basis of the factors presented and thus contribute to an increase in social equality. Finally, the majority of the members court the views presented by the Committee for the Second Discussion, including the U.S. about the importance of consultation. According to the above, a greater proportion of the Committee will contribute to the approval of the bill and under the opinion of the printed material, as well as the above. Councilmen, Birgir Þórarinsson, Jóhann, Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, Hilda Jana Gísladóttir, and Kári Gautason of the committee. Sigmar Guðmundsson agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u113	Mr. President. I have not decided to accept in the majority of the General and Education Committee in this matter, but I have turned in a minority party because of some anxiety I have of this change in the effect of these changes. As we have seen, there is a growing increase in the difference between law and law that is highly valid on bans, in fact, against discrimination on the basis of race and ethnic background, and are being added to various differences of factors, including belief and belief. As it turns out in my minority list, I'm concerned that the true function of these laws, these laws, these laws, after this change, will be even. enumerating a prohibition against blasphemy, as it was interpreted in the existing penal code of the 135th par. A penalties that have been excommunicated against blasphemy. I appreciate the discussions that have taken place on the committee and that have come to respect the opinion expressed, is published by the majority of the committee, and has also been observed in other committees. Councilmen on this matter that they do not think at all, and it is now issued that it is by no means the lawgiver's will, not the will of those standing at the bill, and that the more part of it does not want to introduce such a prohibition. It is truly good news and good and true as far as it goes. The problem is, when using songs in Iceland, we live in such a system that it's the lyrics of the law. I've seen earlier in discussions, both here at council and in the problems that have been raised in the interpretation of the law given by the General of Congress, that people, often members of Parliament, are overrated by legal interpretations. Legal data is everything that happens around the Three Laws. We have laws that apply, so we have all kinds of things around it. We have a report, we have speeches, we think of smaller things and more things and other things. This is legal evidence. Is it not a law to interpret a law against the court, and other judges are sometimes looked to as a solution when there is a question as to the meaning of the law? It can indeed be beneficial. However, this is not so that comments, explanations, or other matters in the explanation can turn aside the lyrics of the Law or otherwise troll it in and hope to go forward. It's not like that. What worries me is about this bill. This law is that after the change in itself, the change, but even if otherwise, it would be relatively clear in many respects, such as that. ... toThirtyseven. The law, like the dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir talked about earlier. This is the case: Laws to prevent discrimination forbidding discrimination. Discrimination is bad. It's against them. The Main Purpose of Items 7. The law is all forms of discrimination in every aspect of society, whether direct or indirect. It is illegal, it is even, can even be a punishment. The law also considers discrimination to be harassment when it relates to these differences, and now I just want to take as an example a belief, a philosophy that is one of the things we're adding. The law of harassment is also defined in the law, and it is stated, with the permission of a president: behavior that is unconcerned to what is going to happen to it, and that has the purpose or effect on it. It is not a requirement to abuse the individual's respect, especially when acting leads to a threatening hostile, humiliating, or insulting situation. Thus, if someone else gets distasteed by that influence, whether in their intention or not, they take offense on the basis of some discrimination and feature, it is considered to be a violation of the law. I'm not gonna tell you in front of me that this is going to be an interpretation of the courts. I'm worried about this. I'm less worried, ironic something, because I'm afraid I'm afraid of something else that I'm sorry about these laws. I don't think that they will achieve anything special in their purpose, and I may, in some way, build on the experience of the law already in place of racial, national background. But I don't think that they have achieved their goal at all. But, as I've said many times here in this hall, the law has never been tested by three or four years in force, and I don't believe that it doesn't have to do with discrimination on the basis of race and nationality, and much less. I can't harassment in this society on the basis of race and ethnic background, but for some reason the law is not used. I'm less worried about it, or I'm still worried about it for myself. This is in itself a discussion of two things. I'm not going to do a lot of talking about this case, because I've actually said everything I think the need to say in my minority, and I'm just saying that for an explanation of what I'm saying here I don't think, unfortunately, that following a statement, more than part of the committee and other committees will in any way minimize these concerns because of what I was saying right here. If the lyrics of the Law are thought to be clear, if courts and wonders feel that they can determine something on the basis of what is stated in the law, then what is stated in law is not relevant. So it will no longer work. It's not part of the lyrics. That's not good enough. I really hope that there will be together with these changes, and regardless of these changes, there will be some action to improve the effectiveness of these laws, and especially with regard to other discrimination, factors listed there, and truly everything that is involved in discrimination in the sense that I think we are going to make in the day - to - day speech. And what? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir talked about here earlier. It is this harassment factor defined in this way by the law that I am concerned about, not exactly the discrimination that will lead to its being illegal. It's natural already. However, this is to justify discrimination on the basis of, for example. Faith and study of life. I certainly don't agree that there's an end, which is fundamental. However, the extent to which harassment is defined is likely to be a little vague as to what is involved and in the weakness with these laws and possibly one of the reasons why they have not been more applied in this respect because this definition of harassment applies to quite enormously great things that we have seen, for example. conduct that, in my opinion, will fit the laws as they apply to this harassment, the rules that say conduct in distastes of what happens to it, and that affects the abuse of the individual, e.g. The behavior will lead to insulting circumstances. This did not happen for anything particularly long ago, and then the person was in the case, now just the highest. Minister. But it was nothing. There was nothing more, since it seems that there is enough to escape the consequences on the basis of these laws, simply apologize. I'm not going to make it a matter of my special publicity here. But I mention it as an example of conduct which, in my opinion, only makes the law very clear, and I'm not entirely convinced of it, especially with the way the government reacted, including the highest degree. Governments, respond to this behavior, tops. Minister. I am not convinced that there is a real mind behind those laws and those terms and, unfortunately, I immediately decided not to interfere with the taking of those laws. I've suggested that they be referred to the government and that they become a little better thought-of-the-art, as they are specific adjustments to European principles of discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic background, not the other factors. But that's how it is. I have a feeling it's just not figured out enough. But the goal is to achieve a positive goal. The purpose is positive. I hope that these laws will be used even if I worry about certain factors. How interesting it will be to see what will be the sad outcome, too, were the answers that we received a measure of concern over the interpretation of these laws! It may just have to be seen. It's also a concern, especially if we're talking about penalties. These laws contain criminal warrants, and there is another principle that we have in our legal state, which is a principle of the clearness of penalties. People cannot be punished for doing something that they were not completely aware of could not be done, so they are. It's for many reasons that I'm concerned about this, and it's mainly about this harassment, the factors that I've mentioned, and I'm not going to keep this case any further, but I just wanted to put it into practice that, unfortunately, law data don't agree with the lyrics.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u114	Mr. President. This is yet another bill in a long series of prime signals from this government that seem to be merely a covert, a declared objective of the headline various positives, and even very positive descriptions in the bill itself without being taken into account as to the real content. It is the change that the bill produces and the effect it produces. Many of the things I am concerned about time may have been mentioned in a very good talk. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir, and I had just thought to start by highlighting that as a matter of course. A member of the U.S. Senate spoke extensively that while the chairman of the case was here at the 3rd discussion, a talk about the committee in some way made it clear that there was not going to be a certain effect. In other words, those who speak for the bill do not agree with the bill itself do not agree with the words in the bill that it should be interpreted differently than what the bill says. Then, sadly, it has been less significant than the text of the bill when it is tested and we have seen several examples of this, both in the country and also in the foreign lands, in Britain, that it has been a lot discussed in recent years how people may have been so much that some consideration of the laws made by these and police repeatedly mixed in it, not by hundreds of times, not by now in Britain, when someone has offended it and then just as it happened in the above, it is not necessarily necessary to show purpose because it is a question of which and whether it has offended a statement or even as mentioned. Mr. President. Eight. The bill of advertising. Eight. says, with permission of a president: Advertising and the person who designs or publishes an advertisement should make sure that the advertisement does not belittle or disrespected to those who have a certain outlook or belief. Then, all who have this philosophy or belief in certain matters will be left to determine if they have taken offense. As a result, these laws could be referred to if any advertised law, e.g. this is a point not to be overlooked that even if you choose to overlook the law, and if you do not consider it fair, this poses a certain threat. This includes the self - written analysis of those who want to avoid criticism of some attitude they fear will cause offenses in some person and possible legal issues for themselves, condemnation such as that there are too many laws in these, despite a declared positive purpose that is very risky and a significant risk of child abuse in any case at the end of the hearing that the law as it is written is not to be understood as it is written on the basis of personality characteristics, it is already forbidden in the Constitution. In that area, we are not adding much. While discrimination is forbidden on the basis of personality characteristics, natural, and human views, it is used here with terms, whether it is a belief, an opinion, or an opinion on a particular subject. In fact, Marx, a man of great interest in knowledge, always concluded that knowledge that was accepted by men is positive but that other knowledge and opinions were not. This bill suggests that you should not be specifically offended here on the first page of the bill. Do not insult people on the basis of the polls. As a result, this is certainly not a liberal bill and very dangerous element, especially when it is added to the fact that certain persons can abuse it by deciding to take offense at criticism that no cause for legal or criminal action was at all, but as mentioned earlier, they have been treated in other countries and have led to their own censorship. This is a matter that works against the fundamental human rights of freedom of expression, the fundamental elements of democracy involved in criticism and communication. So this is a very dangerous bill, Mr. President, and with no way of supporting it, and my surprise to classify in this government, which at one time taught itself to be liberal, push it forward and let it go so far along with the great demands and dangers this bill contains, and I will therefore support the proposal that the case will be referred back to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. The members of the council here expressed their opinion on this matter and wanted to present only the points I actually discussed in my talk, following the second discussion. Of course, that is the way one can view it, and all agree that discrimination is forbidden and banned according to a constitution. Of course, it is possible to have a view that there should not be other special laws to specify some special discrimination, as differences are simply forbidden, and I have often endorsed those members of the council who have spoken in that way. This does not change the fact that we started the process of setting up a special law where we put in specific differences factors. That's a good reason too. What we're doing here is adapting the legislation so that the differences are the same in the law on treatment within the labour market and outside the labour market. Therefore, I think it is very important that this change takes place, and I would also like to remind you that in 2018, the council provided an adjustment of the law and then had a special provision in the Law, which was assigned to the highest degree. Prime Minister to bring just what is left of the bill. It's having these differences in this bill. It was a clean message from the council that received the votes of the General Assembly. With regard to the discussion, the challenge that I understand is how we define harassment. Then I just want to keep it in place that here we are using the same definition as in other laws. We're harmonizing the definition of challenge, including... about the year or so on sexual misconduct and sexual harassment, so I think it is also important that when we have such a word in the law, we have a consistent definition. But as to whether the definition should be different, it may be a little too much in there. But I think it's important that she's the same in every law code. But I also want to say that this is a matter that has been very much discussed in the Honorable General and Education Committee, and I would like to say this now, in particular, because we're going to handle matters which, unfortunately, have not been given much discussion in the Committee, and I just want to make this decision because it is important that the matter should come into this council on time and they are being carefully and well discussed in the professional committees. It's one of those things. This is where guests have been enrolled, and the committee has requested more guests to handle the matter very carefully and carefully, so I think that this case is very well-worked and well prepared. Of course, there is no need to say that all of us need to agree on this. It's just normal. That's what we're here for. But I'm just gonna get it over with. I think it's a good thing to talk about. This is a legal step, and I think it's possible. It is important to make sure that people are not discriminated against in this community, and we discussed them well with the second discussion, unfortunately, we did. Then we're not in a community where there's no discrimination, it happens every day. It is therefore even more important that we here in this hall send a clear message that it is not acceptable. I just agree with the discussion that we have been here in other areas that we should step forward and throw this discussion forward in the community and see to it that we eliminate the prejudices and ignorance that occur when people for different reasons are discriminated against in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u116	Senator Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Mr. President. Again, we hear as the main logical support of the executives and those who are involved in this bill, that it's only a result of another bill, such as that if you could have made a mistake once, you'd have to continue to do so. These are not reasons to think, except that there is a certain force, a variation in the bill for the labour market, and possible restrictions on the expression of people there without saying that it is right to do so or to limit the whole community, to limit criticism of other people's opinions. The rest of the evidence that is highly named on the uniform definition of harassment. They also cause anxiety, for they merely point to a series of examples. Haraldsdóttir I think it's a concern if people are going to join the same category of real harassment, sexual harassment like that. A senator mentioned, put it in line with criticism of opinions. On the contrary, I would feel that it would be very important to keep this apart and, of course, as I have traced to previous talks, not to limit the normal criticism and opinions of people, or to place them in connection with serious things, and so on. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir here again and again in the community, which is certainly the right discrimination. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, there's a difference in society that's undoubtedly true. But they need to respond by means of methods that are falling for improvement, not by a bill such as this that can cause damage, not by means of freedom of expression and natural criticism, but by not speaking of, as mentioned in the preceding talk, to mix it with serious harassment and criticism of opinions and debates. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir also mentioned that there was still a need for discrimination in the world. Excuse me again if there was discrimination in the community by sending a clear message, and this should be the clear message the council sends on the subject. But it's obviously not clear, because if you read the text on the bill, it includes something completely different from the proponents of the bill here, trying to convince us that it's supposed to be an aluminium and that it seems to be filled with all kinds of descriptions of the importance of removing discrimination and such things as that. paritaprevir This was the case with the repertoire of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who said earlier and in fulfillment, such as specifically saying that it was not only illegal but also a multiplicity of discrimination now for the first time that I remember seeing it in the bill that it was illegal to break the law once. But it would also be informative to break more often as the bill appears to be written primarily in order to say that it is doing something more important than its contents. The problem, however, is not a solution, but there are very major dangers of freedom of expression and criticism of conversation in a democracies community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u117	Mr. President. Here is one more trip, and now in the third discussion, which is in common with the issues we discussed here, about many times, as we have discussed, a measure of virtue, without looking to the actual content and influence of the bill. But this bill violates the development and aims of most governments around us. What are these goals? Yes, it is the goal of taking control of the refuge and who come to the country to be able to make more use of the limited financial resources and resources that each state has to help those who most need help. That is how Denmark's prime Friðrik, while prime minister, who is now an article in the United States, described the Danish Prime Minister's feeding of Frirdik. A major difference between these categories declared that the objective of the party's policy and that the government in that country was that no one came to Denmark to seek refuge and that prime minister was not speaking of Danir's not to receive refugees. No, they wanted to be in control of whom were invited to the country and to direct people into the legal safe course that was described and prevented from taking more or more of the people who came to the country from reaching them for asylums in the streets of crime, which are in no position to sell people's expectations for a better life elsewhere and to risk their lives after taking even the entire estate or sometimes more than the requirement for the individual to become a slave to pay off a debt after getting into some land, and Dana's prime minister said: Denmark must be no sale to these parties. Other North countries have set up a comparable policy, in fact, a conflicting process, and today the accompaniment of these days is an effort by the British government to master it and have a new idea, which was first introduced to it. I think of the above - mentioned Danish soparadeses to send those who came to the country to work things out there. In both cases, in both the case of Danmerk and the United Kingdom, there were Talk about Rwanda, and this is not because the governments of these countries expected to lead to an even greater number, and more people are about to be sent back to Rwanda. No, it is in order to dress in criminal gangs and make it impossible for them to sell trips to these countries and put people at risk and because of them encourage people, and especially the people who are actually entitled to a refuge to leave safer ways, since, as this system has evolved on land and elsewhere, more and more are using the system to seek refuge. But, in fact, looking for better terms and a very large percentage of those that come to form in the Northern countries and Iceland and Britain are coming for that purpose, and you understand if there is a gap, an opportunity to gain a better one, and even a significantly better one than man's. To make good use of who would not do so, even to make good use of the point that people are willing to go into debt and put themselves in danger to get into such a system. That is why the system is not allowed to promote it, but it has evolved. Today, British governments are having trouble carrying out their policy of sending people who have come illegally to the land of Rwanda, not because they lack political support, not because the courts in that country, including the Supreme Court, opposed it. On the contrary. The Court had confirmed that these legal requirements were confirmed by a non-named party in Strasbourg, a judge who is not even told what is called, made a decision to stop outside the work time, to stop action without having it settled in the matter, thus making it more and more difficult to enforce their policies and their democratic will of voters. It is constantly, as I have been told, that they are bringing power to the institutions that use this ever - increasing power often in ways that are not expected by voters and that it is natural for voters to worry about the development of these matters, and not least for those who want refugees, systems, refuge, a system that is falling to help the people who are in the greatest distress. And now, after the beginning of the war in Ukraine, we see this happening, as it were, at the highest level. Minister of Justice said that the failures of the system here have made it more difficult to accept all the people we would like to receive, which is actually escape bombs and wars in Ukraine because the system is much blocked by those who have come here to improve their own benefits, live in better circumstances, and the increase has been very great in Iceland. Quite unbelievablely fast to the point of applying probably seven or eight times more for asylum here in Iceland than in Norway and Denmark. This is the result of the message that governments in the other countries have sent from sources that have reduced stress, have made it easier to cope with the problem, and help those in most dire situations, and this is also the result of the message that has come from this region, where cases often seem to be taken care of by people's reporting or not and external pressure so that if it seems to be the case, this one will only increase particularly while the North countries puts increased emphasis on restoring control of their borders. It's part of a course for Danish officers. Then it will further increase Iceland's tugpower in this context and Britain all of our neighboring countries will be going in the opposite direction compared with what the government proclaims here. Once again in this bill, which includes making it possible for everyone to share the rights of the court, the rights of the people they brought here, especially because there are people in great need, are chosen, and are invited to come to Iceland, and have a considerable right to a greater degree of support than in most other countries. But has become a small part of those who come here looking for asylum because of this increase I mentioned earlier to make this change stand to validate that everyone coming here and having either a home or a residence permit has the rights as the people who went to a refugee camp applied to get to Iceland, went through a lot of careers, waited and received a positive answer and was invited here. Those who rather buy services, smuggling, smuggled by the dead, and committed suicide, are in debt with these gangs. They have the same right to support the Icelandic government, as do those who specifically invite us here, and this goes against what the Danish ravens have to say. The Danish government in general and in other parts of the North is working to reduce the impulse to the criminals. It's a catalyst. That's where it can be sold. In Iceland, there are legal guarantees, and these and these gaps are in the system if efforts are made to prevent you from getting this guarantee. It's a dangerous bill and it's gonna have a far greater impact than the government seems to realize, and it's still another of those bills I mentioned in a discussion on a different subject. It's just about the signature and the plans for how things should develop and what good things are doing so with Lísa in itself, regardless of the real content and the real consequences. So particularly in view of the development of other countries, this is a very serious concern that at the same time counsellers and probably and members of the Independence Party have not yet been able to counter the obligation of a foreign bill presented here several years ago as a necessary reaction to try to correct a welcome system. It's postponed over and over again. The independents, allow themselves to bow down in the grass for groups of cooperation with that matter, while a matter works in the opposite direction. Thus, during the final meters of the council, the number of refugees and refugees and refugees who travel by 2015 are packed up, especially after conversion in Germany, but, of course, primarily because of the war in Syria. Then I traveled through the area of the war and visited a refugee camp. It was usually a passage from the people you met there that the people wanted to be able to return to their homes. But it was quite interesting to talk to the people who were involved in a host of refugees or to form those who were working on the Mediterranean Sea, who had rescued many refugees from danger there, and who did not succeed in saving all the messages from these people when they could express themselves on a person without saying something that would be risked to be turned off and attacked always there were: you must not constantly be implementing a system that would benefit crime groups and put people at risk and have, for example, in particular one of the most dangerous things to do is to make special leaves for children, for this will still contribute to the development of children in some cases, in some cases, even in very dangerous cases, and may not even return to their destination. They were people working on it, trying to help people. The message from it was over and over again clear: Stop making laws that promote these disturbing developments, try to help more here in the area than how Western countries have been able to do so, help in the vicinity, to form in Lebanon, where the same capital could help, ten times as many people. It has saved and Lebanon has afflicted and poor land, and millions of refugees will be taken along without getting enough support. But it's simply more comfortable first than maybe for Western politicians to bring bills like this. You have no idea what's going to cost you an idea. Despite repeated requests there. Then they can show that they are good without having to look at the effects without considering the actual effects of the bill and the real effects of this bill can be very damaging and may fail to contribute to the danger of hundreds of thousands of people where it is spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u118	A respectable president. I want here to discuss this third matter about changing the law on the affairs of immigrants, starting with what was done at the end of the 2nd discussion, just recently since there was a agreement that there would be some questions raised in an effort to present information relating to the subject under discussion. They were presented through a welfare committee that discussed the matter, and I can say, as it is, that I might not be quite satisfied with the way it was finally held. However, it is time for a future discussion to focus on future discussions. But since I made a lot of remarks in this first and second discussion, it was that there was no secondary impact on the bill, this so-called pulse macre in English, which I believe will be increased by this bill approved, seeing that it will be a consistent reception for individuals who receive protection, from the way they come to the country. It is whether they will come on their own or if they will come through a flight from the United Nations Institute and/or on the basis of a United Nations refugee Convention. There is something that causes the reviews, applications for international protection in Iceland to be as many and, in fact, much more than what we see in the countries around us. If we only look at figures from 2021, there were applications for global protection per 10,000 people, 23 in Iceland, 11 in Sweden, five in Finland, four in Denmark and three in Norway, which said applications for international protection in Iceland were equal to the number per 10,000 people, total applications per 10,000 population in average in all the other northern countries combined. What I think is absolutely necessary is that we realize what causes it. I've been joking about the weather, but there's something that makes the application so intense here, and I think we need to get to a place where these discussions will be more based on facts. Of course, there will always be feelings in this discussion. Just under there are people who are looking for a better life, but that doesn't change the fact that we have to work on presenting better and more detailed information that will make it easier for us as far as this mountain, to understand real status, to figure out what causes it to make that there are as many envelopes, the applications proportional to Iceland and all the other northern countries, all of which we're looking at, for example, on the numbers as if they were in mid May. I just don't have any younger numbers, but then we're over 1500 applications, including less than five, nearly 1000 from Ukraine because of the particular conditions that are present during the period of war. However, there are more than 500 applications in other areas, and this indicates that we are looking at close to 1500 applications, which, without application from Ukraine this year, is just that I think it's a curse for most people who know the pressures on the various supporting, supporting well - being systems of the country, that the system has such a problem. We have to look at things as they are, and I think we have to do the job of identifying what Icelandic community, Icelandic musculoskeletal systems, measures for health care, housing, psychological services, interpretation services, and other things have been tried to approach them on the basis of agreements and cooperations that occur at the reception of capital people, threatening refugees through the rural communities. Other than that, I think there's too little analysis that's under there, so I think we have to take on that project to make decisions better than we do right now. I think it would be wise for all of us to work. Then we have to work on bringing up this information in many parts of the system, but very few people have an overall vision so that the discussion will become a wise ballerina, pardon the sledge, a respectable president, so that the discussion will become more balanced and we can get something ahead of calling each other names when men dislike the player's language. But again to this inquiry, which went to a social and employment minister through a welfare committee for the case and for his Ministry. It asked a few questions, and I now thought it was due, not so acceptable, but let it remain between parts for a while, but it was one and another interesting thing that it presented, and it seems to me that, in large part, it is trying to bring a quick recovery under a project that has been sustained for several hours with these laws, which are present here by this bill. This might explain some comments made by a minister in the early stages when the matter has been presented, in which material claims were made that there was no real change. There are, of course, certain factors, e.g. in answer, it is based on an decision made by the Health Committee, No. 43/2017, since then, the number of persons who gain protection has become more rapid, e.g. into disability, but the Icelanders coming home from abroad. This is what I've been listening to since that answer came out, it didn't seem to be public knowledge. Of course, they know these things that are working on these systems, but they do. such factors that I think we should work on, to draw out so that the discussion can become more facts based than on emotion. There is another factor in this bill that is related to the cost, and I used to criticize it as a first and second discussion that it was not an attempt to evaluate the cost assessment of the bill. At the present time, 40.8 million were. Everyone is confronted with a total loss of consciousness. It is critical that a person does so, but it is possible to eliminate the direct costs of the bill and then, of course, an attempt to evaluate the complex costs. But look at only the direct costs and the answer here on six pages, which are available and well available, and under the General Assembly. Then, after a considerable degree of compromise, only two groups are compared because of the expense of rural society, the pay paid by rural society, due to the acceptance of services involving people who are not protected and who do not fall under the armaholics. The system and the cost of this highly targeted team arrived during the day is every year 265% of the total estimate of the cost assessment in the bill, which is said to be just this highly targeted feature is 265% of the cost estimates of the bill as it is available. It's all the rest, so the cost of the bill is total nonsense, and it's a good thing to make it so if we're living on a bill like this and not try to control it, because there are other factors that would come to our attention. That's when we'll be looking at the attraction, the stinker, the mackerel. It was a good concept as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson used in this context, the effect that causes an increase, an increase in the number of narratives and applications. In addition, I would like to proceed with the answer given here, and I was called to a committee between the second and the third articles, which says in 1 Corinthians 15: 58. mg., with the permission of a president: The European Commission's Guideliness will be submitted, instead, to guide the decision to welcome and services of rural society and to assist with the social participation of refugees released in 2014 to 14 of the current Department of Health, now the social and workforce of the Ministry. So this is part of answering on the basis of the ministry privileges available to us. It is far too bad to say that setting aside the standards of the refugee Commission's guidelines for welcome and assistance to refugees who were published on May 10, 2013, including those taking the lead. on 1 5. In what ways may financial assistance, social counseling, housing with necessary rooms and telephones, education, especially the Icelandic, mother - to - mother teaching of community, education, play - school education, hobbies, health care, dentists, services, interpretation of help with job search and other essential services are included? Then, as stated earlier, it will be disfellowshipped from these rules and instead of the proposed rules published in 2014 in May by the existing well - being minister, now a social and workforce minister. Then, on page 4, it does not say, with the permission of a president: It is not possible to build the right kind of service. According to the Department of Social Affairs and Department of Social Affairs, it presents the bill for the discussion to state the answer between the second and the third discussion that the rules of conduct should be disposed of and looked out in comparison to others, which specifically says on page four, by permission of the president: There is no way to build the rightness of the rules. It's somehow a bit like those who hold on to this matter are running away from themselves and I'm sorry that the matter is now clearly over with the assumption that such obvious emergency landings are in progress. Of course, it does not stand to believe that the rules taken in use are being abandoned for over a decade or less and that they take up a year younger, which specifically says that it is not possible to build on the right ground. You can't build the right to a service on the rules. See that we're completing this case with the boring effect that I think most people see and are obvious, especially when we look at it, as I said earlier, that the number of applications is as much in Iceland as in all the northern nations combined 23rd. In Iceland alone, 10,000 people live in Sweden, five in Finland. Four in Denmark and three in Norway are three in Norway, 23 in Iceland per 10,000 people. There's something underneath that we have to put around so that we can protect the money that is available to this group go to the most needed and most in need. Because the criticism I put forth here is not about not wanting to receive people in need, just not at all, but about things as they are, as they are, the cost as they are, is an estimate, and is facing. And we need to discern what we can do so that we do what we do properly but do not try to do everything for everyone. It is the most pointed way of doing things that is bad for all who come to this and need service. And it's gonna cost you a fortune. It's gonna cost you a fortune. And I think we also need to consider, " Is it not in many cases better to get money from this class of paintings by serving in foreign territories so that people don't have to take on dangerous trips? ' Often, under the hat of criminals, people have been forced to exploit. We need to get this system, which I'm going to allow to claim is that it's like it's falling apart. We need to get this system better, like I repeat, that we will be good for those we accept to support their adaptation to Icelandic society, but we will not try to do everything for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u119	President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson is only involved in a case I would like to discuss in my previous talk. It is the way the bills are often presented as small issues, technical changes, even and the standard in which they come out of the system, but as soon as they are approved, they are beginning to work after them and are being used for further expansion for the system, and then it is explained to politicians as in the United Kingdom that they are now unable to do something, voters feel that this authority has just been given by and by this bill is being done by the Icelandic governments in the same time as the future, politicians, in general, is more difficult to deal with what is probably the largest possible solution of the intermission period, which is the refugee problem. It is a problem that is clear to all that will only increase as time goes on. Because, as I've been tracking here in my first speech, that doesn't even qualify for improvement in developing countries. It does not diminish the flow of those seeking it; it increases it. It increases considerably, and therefore there are very few very few people, almost none from all the poorest countries, but as people have more economic opportunities for them, an increased number of applications to get even better, and there is a very large part of this trend that is beyond our reach, and therefore we, the government of this country and elsewhere, are going to be prepared to establish the best rules to deal with the problems and help the most needed. But, as with so many matters, especially in this field, this case does not seem to focus primarily on finding the best way to do the most good for those in the greatest distress. It seems to be primarily about the people who contribute and speak of other means, or they would want to control the situation, such as the Northern countries, such as Britain, so that they can better use the opportunity to help where the real need is. This will help us to avoid doing this, and evolution is fast. As has been attributed, by comparison with the refuge of a number of shelters in Iceland, compared with other northern countries, this was quite different. Iceland is the most distant destination to get here, and the Dublin rules have long been responsible for applying for asylum in the first country they come to, and as a result, the number of applications in Iceland was the longest out of the North countries for a long period of time. Today, he is farest, as mentioned in computers, and our ratios are still shaken, and we also see in those neighboring countries that people are seeking refuge in other lands. Hundreds of people come upon some people, from France to Britain day after day, even though they were entitled to an asylum in France, this is the right thing to do. That's because they're looking for the most considered destinations and they're making Iceland a marking Iceland as one of the most suspected places for those planning this transport, and it's dangerous. It's very dangerous, and it'll be hard to wind off. In fact, we hear members of the nobility talking about people not going to certain European states, even members of Congress fighting for the fact that Iceland is going to the European Union in such a way that it will be similar here. But people should not be sent to the European Union, which has yet been protected. The energy of Iceland's two forces continues to increase with this bill and it makes it harder for us to do real good. Mr. President. I see that time has come for me, but there are some things I will go over and wait. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u120	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the members of the Health Committee's Committee's Committee on Conventioning a Health Care Professional Action Programme until the year 2030. The case came to the latter part of the month of March and therefore was discussed for some time. The proposal suggests that health services will be developed with elderly people who will become the foundation of a 2030 work programme. The proposal is based on the policies made by the health minister in the spring of 2021, and the presentation highlights the agreed course of health policy to 2030. This medical conference highlights seven main subjects reflected in the available proposal, with emphasis on older people and those who maintain it by health care. The committee received a discussion, and they found visitors and received reviews. This is reported in a committee program on Article 1246. Following the Commission's review, the Commission has requested that general pleasure be made up of the proposal among candidates, but a high priority is given to good and effective consultations with users of the services, stakeholders and experts in the implementation of the policy plan. As a result, the Commission will agree with the importance of effective and broad consultations and cooperation on the work. The committee specifically discussed the integration of services. The committee established the view that common health and social services are needed to be molded by the elderly and under the direction of the advisers of the seminars. The committee agrees with the importance of maintaining a wide range of service to older people and including social services. Such emphasis is also in accordance with the government's administration and the commission to the project administration laid down in the proposal and recommended in the Treaty, should be viewed as a collective service to older people, where this integration will be taken into consideration and considered and, in effect, repeatedly refers to the fact that the Commission takes on the indications received from the Commission for discussion of this matter and set it up in a proper direction, such as this. to the rights of disabled persons mentioned by the committee, but it was pointed out the importance of policy making it possible for health - care professionals to be considered particularly related to the members of the Icelandic State under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. The committee agrees with this and aims at the requested task management to take special note of the affairs of the elderly who are disabled in their service. In addition, the Commission discussed the payment of the medical facility, where it was noted that there is still some uncertainty about paying them, as noted that it is jointly acting on the results of the Department of Health Services, the Ministry of finance, the Union of Iceland and the Health Services Association, that it requires special attention on the welfare of a nursing home. So the committee wants to point out that there has been a step toward following this conclusion by means of a health - care declaration published on March 1 in connection with a new agreement for increased funds for nursing homes and future improvements, which showed that a minister would employ a health - care group for the welfare of nursing homes available to the Ministry of Nations. Then an individual service schedule was discussed. The proposal places considerable emphasis on individual health care and the implementation of an individual service program based on overall aging and assessment. The Icelandic Community Association suggested that instead of talking about the individual service program, the concept would be used as a central and integrated service. Team 6 includes the procedure. Pointed to the fact that one policy point to 2030 is to support a plan that would then be in accordance with a yes in support of a plan that would then be in accordance with the term use of the law on integrating services in the interests of successful children and, in fact, on other occasions, a support plan is used for me. The committee believes that changing the use of words could result in explaining and harmonizing but does not agree in a way to suggest changes, but it is important that such a change be taken into account in the discussion and in agreement with all the economists, and therefore the Commission directs it to the requested task management to consider this. That's exactly where members of the Union can pick up the situation in that area. Finally, the committee discussed the importance of innovation and research in the development of health care with older people and underlines the proposal for a large increase in the use of welfare technology. The committee was offered an opportunity to improve the service and the importance of linking targeted research with the experiment and development projects of rural society and other services who are constantly looking for ways to solve new challenges, whether in broad areas or in urban areas. Since opportunities to integrate may vary considerably according to external circumstances, e.g. it was a review of Strulling Strategies and Theing Islands reporting on development projects that plan to create a framework for the service that was considered to be a system of integrated social and health services provided by older people, the introduction of welfare technology and the distance and the construction of driving services for suitable living, day - to - day living and social services. With reference to the subject of the proposal and the already identified importance of integrating health and social services, the Committee considers it important that the project management take care of such projects, contributes to professional evaluation and assessment and experience and to the knowledge already generated by different rural areas and different organisations and companies. The committee suggests one physical change in the synopsis. One of the tasks to explain roles and work on improving the quality of the health care system is that the staff should be appointed. A group due to decades of health, aging, healthy aging across the Ministry and Company society suggested that they get direct representatives into the work they are going to do on integration and other things, and the Committee agrees with these views of the relationship and that the representatives of the network which are particularly important in the project management to look for further integration of the service and suggest that the European Union will also have two representatives in the mission government over which the committee is referred to and laid down in the motion. Then the committee suggests a slight change in wording that does not have a material effect and does not need an explanation, but above it the committee suggests that the proposal will be adopted with the changes made and under the opinion of committees as well as those listed here. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, The Guðnýju Baby Guðmundsdóttir, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, Hörn Mersteinsdótir, Orri Páll Jóhannsson and Óli Kárason Kárson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u121	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the health committee for the assessment of mental health policy until 2030. The proposal is to adopt a mental - health policy until 2030, which highlights baseline values that promote individual health services on social foundations and support for health benefits throughout life. It is a common global interest to increase the focus on human health, prevention and mental health services, which are in accordance with the Government Convention on the State Coalitions of the Foreign Party, Self - Opportunities, and Left Green, the Left Press of Green. Although some progress has been made in recent years, it is still clear that there is a lack of a complete and consistent approach to mental health ranging from mental - health status, prevention and early intervention for mental health care at all levels and between the quality of the systems and the judicial system. Thus, the presentation of the proposal takes into account and is presented with four core factors and emphasis that will be reflected in the procedures directed by the Ministry of Health. The committee discussed the matter and received reviews, and it is reported in a committee study that follows the Commission's discussion of the matter and shows that most members of the health committee are positive to the proposal and suggest that it be accepted. The majority, however, especially want to make the following point: The importance of early intervention is emphasized by the majority. The majority also points out that there must be some means to provide services to children with psychiatric problems. Increased knowledge and experience have led to an increased understanding of the importance of this period of individual life. In this case, the majority of the items are important to look into the first 1,000 days of mental health and well - being, as per the surgeon's report on future vision and the proposal for action since June 2001. It includes actions that are critical to take in the coming years and in the larger parts of the world that consider it important to examine the risk of developing childhood mental health and to look into protective factors that weigh on the weight of the mental health issues associated with childhood. It is worthy to consider whether school is the ideal setting for reaching out to young people with mental - health skills and protection. Then the committee discussed critical and preventive measures. Many comments showed the importance of such measures mixed with responsible medical treatment. In view of the best knowledge available at each time, the importance of criticism and a more varied approach to the treatment of mental disorders and the emphasis on multidisciplinary design and growth of professions. The majority of the material reiterates the point that a complete mental - health service will be integrated and based on the best possible criticism and rehabilitation. Advisers express concern about the use of antipsychotics in the region and the overemphasis of the health system on the morbidity of mental illness and hence the use of medicinal products. The majority are concerned about the interviewer and emphasise the role of responsible drug use in conjunction with criticism and preventive measures. The committee also discussed user schemes and the levels of mental health. The proposal expects a body to be formed where governments, professionals, users and caregivers meet and discuss the seminary. According to one reference work, the organization has long spoken for the institution of such a body, but it stresses that its co - establishment will be adopted to a so - called mental - health instrument. The majority agree with the comments of the Psychological Fund, stressing the importance of collection of statistical data and the importance of these successs measure the quality of the service provided. A report published in April 2022 by the Government Revisions on Mental Health, is that one of the seven indications needs to improve the collection of information, analysis and extramarital activities. To do this, you need to examine the systems involved in the registration of the information and their success if the results of the treatment provided and consider it overall with those that will work with the system. The majority of the evidence shows that all key stakeholders meet together, and if all data and statistics are available, there should be no barrier to developing a mental health scale for the desired purpose. The scale of human health, displayed in a comprehensive and graphical way by information on human health in the country. Such a mental - health database would allow easy processing and access to information on mental health and better understanding of the individual situation. A respectable president. A greater proportion of welfare committees contribute to the one change of the proposal for information, registration to ensure good perspective and targeted mental health policies, to improve the collection of data, to treat data, and to improve access to them. In view of the greater part, it is possible to respond to the criteria given in the mental health policy but the greater part wants to stress the need to go to work to expand the collection of information, analysis and extramarital activities and suggests that changes are needed. According to the above, a greater proportion of welfare committees would contribute to the approval of the bill by the changes made and by the opinion of a greater proportion of the social committees of publications, as well as those listed here. Councilmen, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Orri Jóhannsson and Óli Björn Kárason. A respectable president. This is a very important step in progress when we agree with this mental - health policy. Then we're sending a message, that we're going to invest in people's mental health, invest in people, and it's important that we put our arms around this group firmly and with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u122	A respectable president. Here I give my opinion from my 1st part of mental health policy until 2030. The first part of my memory is glad that there has been a conquistador of mental health policies to 2030. It is urgent that governments put forth policy, action plan, and perspective on this important matter party. We agree with the proposal, but we would have wanted to see an ambitious policy that went even further. We would have liked to see the policy referred to clear measures to take are absolutely essential to ensure that the work currently being carried out in the Ministry of Health is ensuring adequate financial support. A recent report by the National Institutes of Mental Health in Iceland helped to clarify serious health problems, such as reduced access to services, a lack of responsibility for services rendered, and ablation in gray areas where individuals with mental illness are available. From reading this report, it is clear that it is difficult to solve existing problems that will, of course, be worst for users of the ministry. A report by The Watchtower also stated that the aims of a mental health care programme from 2016-2020 were not met and most of the problems associated with the population are still present. As we further examine the Action Programme, we can see that the only steps taken were the funds that were funded from the start. Clearly, then, an abundance of national resources is not enough. It requires long - term vision funded and well - timeed action and political will and endurance. Mental - health services are a health line and a basis for health care, but as indicated by the definition of the Health Organization (WHO), so health defined by the permission of a president: as physical and social well - being, not merely the absence of disease or disability. Mental health is the basis for health, but it is a concern that mental illness has become a factor in our society, the inhibitory nature of these diseases, and the expense of it. We must use the mental - health policy to deal with the subject professionally, with the highest priority in financing, improve access to the ministry, educate more professionals in this article, and use early reserves. It would also be especially helpful to consider national health experts to evaluate such factors as mental health in adults, the use of antidepressants and health care, mental - health visits, and behavioural disorders on the newly published public health professionals for the Southnes. Before the year 2022, it is seen that health care, mental - health visits, and behavioural disorders were 22.7 visits per 100 per 18.9 visits throughout the country. The mental health of an evaluable adult was 32.1% on the Southnes compared to 29.7% on the country. In view of the need for increased access and funding for mental - health services in Southnes, it is all possible to conclude that this is likely to occur. The need for mental - health professionals is first taken to prevent larger and more complex problems later in life, but most studies show that prevention is extremely important when we are exposed to mental health, the first part of which is less progressive to plan for mental - health practices, prevention, and early measures to become the basis for mental health professionals and therefore to put mental - health professionals at all levels from an early age. The first smaller section points out, as is done in the above report by a government accountant, that access to mental health needs to be improved and the elimination of grey areas produced in the system over the past few years. However, regarding the opinions of susceptible grey areas of the mental - health system, where clients are not given the service they require, it is found that their responsibilities are unclear within the health care of the state and community, as well as their differences in responsibility for the costs. This problem is made clear when there is a need for a specific service that no one thinks is to provide. Hence, it is very important to define the responsibility and role division of the service providers better than to increase cooperation, cross-cutting, and interfaith in the ministry. As we do today, we are not all at the same level when it comes to accessing the mental health system and certain systematic discrimination seems to be built in the system. It is often determined by economic problems and habitats, whether or not there is a service to refugees and other non - English or social groups that may be even more difficult to gain access to the ministry. The waiting lists of vital services are far too long throughout the country. A member of the Management Board feels that the main explanation is that there is a lack of specialized staff and appropriate instruments and motivation in the system to dismiss difficult issues to avoid costs. I'm gonna, with President's permission, read it again: There's an incentive in our system to dismiss difficult matters and thus avoid costs. This is the fact of today, which is very unfortunate. It is very important to take immediate action to combat this trend and prevent long list of waitings. Long waiting for mental - health services can increase the problem of clients and their caregivers and can make the ministry much more complex, more difficult, and more expensive. In this context, it is appropriate to stress that forethought and thought are needed in this important and difficult matter. The course contains good goals that first smaller things support, but policy needs to be aimed at a more modern application with a view to the services used. Our united countries are far beyond our development in serving people with psychiatric challenges, and that is where we are to go. Thus we will be successful and eventually reduce the number of people who need more complicated intervention. A respectable president. The first smaller section points to the government to ensure that the upcoming strategy will be funded more accurately than previous programme and will take place. to the points first of memory, as well as to the National Accounting Research Centre in their report on Mental Health in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u123	This is 3rd. Reykjavík Precinct storm, Halldóra Mogensen. President. In March 2022, a report published by the National Reexamination of Mental Health in Iceland, in particular on policy costs and achievements, was published. In short, the Icelandic health - care system has had a fall - score. Many fractures of the present mental - health system were observed in the administration of Government Accounts, and as it says, governments can ensure the proper service to their expectations and wait for services is generally too long and not in accordance with government goals. The government lacks perspective on mental health status, but data on the incidence and development of psychiatric disorders are not available and analysis of the services and the human needs of the Hospital has not been performed. There is no central list of waiting lists and information on the needs and actual costs of mental health care that there is no real cost of mental - health services. The figures of unexpected or serious incidents involving mental - health services are not readily available and are also applicable to the number of complaints to the surgeon's office. Then registration of the application procedure is not readily available, and it is requested in a report The Reconclusion of the Necessary need to correct this. Special health policies would not be set in this country until the 2016-2020 Action Programme, which has now run its course without new implementation. This arrangement suggests a new mental - health policy until the year 2030. A report by the Government Reviewer is a tool to investigate the policy and determine whether it is needed to solve the problems of the mental health system, thus helping to improve the health of the people. This review of The Kingdom Review makes it clear that there is a need to revise the group as a whole. The modern medical system is largely based on an out - of - date approach to mental health and mental health, and unfortunately, the policy, not to reevaluate the systems, but much more to patches the present system. There is a great need for a new approach in the category of paints and for others to feel that this opportunity will not be new. One of the major defects in the present system is a lack of overall approach, where the individual comes on their terms with their best interests at heart. The system is not thought of by user experience but by the design of health care providers. As a result, mental - health services are fragile. Communication between different units is limited and random and the system is thought to be by diagnosis and classing of users according to how the system defines, but not by individual needs. The president is out to identify a person's illness when we might be rather identifying the disease in our community. The fact is, at some point, most people need the help of a mental - health professional. There are people, many tragedies in life, and many social conditions, both growing up and later in life, but many people's problems could be met as a very normal reaction, as well as in very unusual circumstances. I feel that this is a fundamental factor in the approach to the illness of people who lack this vision of the future, which this aim is to show us but by offering individual service, early before the problem becomes more difficult and complex. Many of the problems that present systems are trying to solve can be prevented. However, as the problem increases, it will also be less difficult to understand, individuals with multiple services are more likely to get broken - down and to fall between systems and areas in the many gray areas discussed in the News Review. One of the big mails, one of the biggest puzzles missing in all the issues of mental health policy is how the social system affects mental health. This should be a lot of focus, many and even most of the problems the mental health system is supposed to solve are rooted in the social system, where effective early intervention can prevent many problems later. Seting a course that does not take into account social activities can never become a common cause that is essential for achieving effective changes in the mental health system in short term. President. Then we need to change how we think about mental health. We need to change how we work when we are facing these challenges, and we need to weave these systems together so that they play together so that they can look at all the major groups, the group in a more complete way. This policy, unfortunately, it just doesn't go far enough when it comes to looking at this whole thing, though it is, and I can quite agree that a lot of the policy is good, that it just needs this fundamental ideological change on how we think about this party and I hope so earnestly that we're going to get close to the point where we're going to see the importance of going out of this disease, of drug use that we're putting on increasing emphasis on the present system and on looking at the root of the problem, speaking, to cause these problems of people, and is possible to find in our society, our systems, in the circumstances we live for many in the community, unfortunately, we live in the world that we have very bad conditions. Children growing up in great poverty and great hardships, and we are not well - cared for, the elimination of poverty and this problem, the social problems that so many are dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u124	Madam President. We are now discussing a resolution of mental health policy until 2030. Of course, many people do not have to comment on the importance of developing a policy in these matters, and there is no need to comment on how important it is that such a policy is being developed, that it is being carried out, and that governments at any given time are taking it into custody to follow some policies, both granting sufficient funds to the seminary, or at least Things like children or groups or adults or some patients don't fall from ship to dock somehow, and we're all, of course, I think, well aware that the level of mental illness in Iceland is always increasing. We'll see this in all kinds of numbers. To some extent, we may be able to see that there may be some explanation in better analysis and increased awareness of problems. But we also see this in increased attendance at various antipsychotic drugs, and we see this in increased attendance at the ministry. We saw this very much when the discussion was about whether to agree that psychological services would be supplied, how the discussion was flying on the importance of caring for mental - health needs. And since I'm now referring to that matter, again I want to declare my disappointments that, despite the fact that the council has accepted this for a few years, it is not yet carried out with sufficient force. Of course, that alone is a major mental health issue and is much more successful in policy making for the future. If we can put it that way, policy in action we can call it. We must all be aware of how sensitive these patients are, and this is a complex problem that affects many areas, but those who may be the weakest and the weakest. It's very sensitive groups, and it's all very important to keep our system in check so that people don't somehow fall between ships and docks, and then, of course, it's only very good that we're discussing mental health policy to 2030. But it's not really possible to go through this discussion but to discuss this in the context of the state-of-the-art report mentioned earlier in this discussion, and we discussed here at the council a few days ago and have actually not yet finished, since the state accountant was reviewing the state of mental health and also providing a better report that I trust and believe that all members of Congress have at least the main ingredient to be studied. It is a huge reading, and it actually gives us a reason to believe that there is a considerable rise in this series of subjects because there are so many systems that prevents the healing of sick people and see them on a number of factors that will be involved in their report. And of course, we can't help discussing this at the same time. Because one of the things that was talking about in this report was exactly that it had gone through the course of time and was very lack of follow-up. Just when men are developing policies and trying to create some design for a long time, and a number of aspects will agree with a public accountant, and there will be no mention of this report in itself in the evidence and as I saw it. But I think there is good reason to have certain aspects of this report here when we are discussing this matter. To illustrate that it is said in one place in the report, with the permission of a president: Mental - health policy has been set out particularly in a general policy for Icelandic health care and a specific mental - health plan for the period 2016 in 2020 was the first time a special mental - health policy was set in Iceland. Strategies were in particular and the growth of basic services in close environments, prophylaxis and early intervention. The Ministry of Health has not formally evaluated the effectiveness of the Action Programme and that its progress in terms of Government Review is not being systematically followed. They lacked consultation with registered responsibilities. Overall, the effectiveness of the strategy was inadequate and is most of the problems that were present when policy was added to the target. But this actually means that despite the wonderful promises of a developed policy, a few years later, it is in exactly the same place. Men didn't work for that great piece of paper. In fact, it's set up here, so I'm going to continue reading, with the permission of a president: It has been most effective in improving access to health care in the close environment of people on health care. There are limited results in six of 18 operations, but 12 measures are fully completed, and this is something that we need, of course, when we're just following some course that we're taking at the General Assembly and to apply to the year 2030, 1, and I said before then it was a black report, a complete drop-off score. And just because we're talking about developing policy to 2030, let's keep this in mind, with president's permission: The Icelandic government lacks the perspective on mental health status but on the frequency and development information. Mental health problems are not available, and the need for land hospitals has not been determined. A central waiting list and information on the actual cost of psychiatric care is not being kept on hand. Imagine, for example. The need for financial support and real cost of mental - health services is not readily available, so I keep up with the figures of an unexpected or serious health - care event, and so on, many complaints. The surgeon's office is not available for the application of forcedness, and National Reexamination is pointing out that there is an urgent need for improvement in this, and we can, of course, here for the more gray areas mentioned in the report. Of course, this is something that is affected in some way, but it is that there is a problem with the idea that there is something wrong with who is responsible to perform a certain type of service, and because of this, sick people have had a serious problem getting out of their business or just not being assigned to the ministry. It's this system that I don't think anyone has sat down and intends to build up. I'd like to make it clear that, fortunately, we all have a match here in this room that we have 100% agreement on our goals. All of us are very well - pleased to do well in this category, and we all feel sorry for those who have mental problems, and we feel very much pain with children who need help because of a mental disorder. There is nothing missing about it, and there was none of us, or in the old age, to try to design a system that works in the way that works today. That, however, is the situation. That's why I have to say that I feel a little edgy and useful when you read the paper with the case we're here talking about, and that's what I'm saying, considering that I've been doing one thing and another of what a state accountant says is wrong in our mental health issues. The report says: In spite of significant improvement in mental health during recent years, there is evidence that Iceland is facing further challenges and barriers to making successful progress toward the future. I just kind of get to bring this back to my attention. We have this carbon-scraped report where our system has a very bad fall average. Despite the good intentions of all political parties and politicians, great staff and all of that, we've gone wrong. This has happened on the watch of the groups now in power. That would have happened during decades of independence and the forwarding party watch, and this is how the report put it. Despite significant improvement in mental - health matters in recent years, there is evidence that Iceland is facing further challenges and obstacles that need to be removed. I think this must be some kind of world record in demeaning that problem because at the same time people are aware that they are somehow responsible for it. This is far more than the challenges we face and the obstacles we face. It awaits us to jump this system with considerable force and make great and specific changes to make and I hope that right, I just hope that now that when we are discussing policy to the year 2030, we are all on the page that we need to take a report of the Government Review into that work, turn it against a page for a page, and turn it into these policies that, of course, must take place at any time when we speak about health matters in general and not least mental health issues. But maybe I'd like to mention a few more episodes because I was talking about the gray areas. Again, I would like to quote the report directly with the permission of the president: despite the fact that the Department of Health and Social Affairs now seems to be at the base of the work when it comes to services to people with mental illness, these gray areas have become unclear who is responsible to perform certain services and to carry the cost of their services. This is especially true in situations where there is a long - term problem and where individuals need quality, health, and social resources at the same time and the need for a coordinated service. This actually means that the ones who are most responsible for the gray areas in our system, the victims of these gray areas, may be the ones who most need the security net, this common network of ours, is the thickerest, and will actively seize people. Then, of course, it also says: "This is one of the least weaknesses of the group's administration. Most people are familiar with the problem, but it's hard to solve. Of course, this is what I would like to address in the light of what is stated in this proposal for a resolution now established. Is it not enough to write policy? We need to agree with what a government review is about the fact that the ideas need to be introduced and introduced with force, and they need to be taken step by step, and they really do not have to be taken out of the picture. As I told you before, it's one of the concerns of the State Amendance. It is that the plans, policies, and promises that have been made by those who shape policies in the seminary have not been followed, and that, of course, are just a big and independent concern, and we need to mention, of course, other factors that we need to consider when we are reviewing these matters. It's about the cost, the cost of direct mental - health care costs, and it was a National Reviewer trying to stress how to figure it out, and it came up with a number, e.g. ............................................................................................... The Ministry estimates that the direct cost of mental health problems will be 13.8 billion. In 2021, but the cost in 2020 was about 12.9 billion at the price of that year. The cost of the health insurance department of Iceland for antipsychotics is mentioned as 2.3 billion in 2020. Pays from the government insurance agency for the disability and rehabilitation of those who were disabled for mental health problems of 26.6 billion dollars. In 2020 and behind this money, there are 8,300 individuals who are considered inaccessible in part or in total because of mental illness, 38% of the nearly 22,000 who received such pay that year and more than 4,800 pensioners. In addition, mental illness is not saying the primary reason for unworkableness, and I know that according to the current course, some of these measures are aimed at handling them. But I'm just a little bit worried about it because of the way this report is written and what I really don't think is the reality that the public accountant's view in his report that it might be a possibility to underestimate the problem, and of course it's not the best thing to do in his work. We're ahead. Then I'd also like to mention, as well as, when we were discussing the report on our own here and I'd like to draw that picture here right now, that the reason why I'm making this also is that this of all the things we're doing in the winter I think this must be one of the most important projects waiting for us to solve in the next few years, just perfectly. If the nation's mental health, if it's not here, if the system that's holding it isn't better than it really is, then it's something that, of course, turns on all the warning lights and we have to deal with it. But it says in one place in the report: There is a degree of discrimination built into the mental health system in Iceland. It is clear that not everyone sits at the same level, the availability of services is often determined by the economy, species, mental problems, and dwellings, and, of course, we have many times in this room, and in every part of the community, we are discussed that in some areas, there is the reluctance that humans do not sit at the same table when it comes to service. Of course, there are measures to make things right, but I'm sure they'll always be in some way, so the service is mostly where the people are, so maybe we can say, and I hope this doesn't sound like it doesn't come out of my mouth. Of course, it may be so that it is difficult to prevent any discrimination from the local population when the availability of services depends entirely on the economy. As this report says, we must stop and scratch our heads and wonder what we can do better, and I know it's up to the work being set before us and here to get us to agree so we have some way to work between the year 2030. But me and my party have always spoken for equality and equality in the broad sense of that word. It is that all of us have the right to everything and, of course, the availability of such vital instruments as health care and then, of course, we must mention this expression, that there is a degree of discrimination in the mental health system. Then there is also a type of mental disorder that lies ahead, along with the economy and then we just have a system that really is ensuring discrimination. It is not to ensure equality needs to ensure discrimination, and we cannot allow it to last for a long time here in Iceland. I see it enough in the report to suggest a resolution and this policy that, of course, we are trying to deal with the great problem that is that we have a problem with human health. Of course, they need to cure, they need mental - health professionals, and they're missing dozens of them here and there in the system, and then we're involved in this designer problem that's often being talked about, and of course we have to figure out that he is. He is also responsible for the government at any given time. He is the problem we face today. It is the result of some course that has been fired for many years, and as a result of this design, the management groups sometimes talk about as if it came from some force of nature from the heavens, no other than the result of the policy that these groups now govern, and intend to adopt here a fine mental health policy to the year 2030 which is responsible for it from a to the next. I'm right to hope that man can solve this and believe it because I know that there's a good mind for everyone to do it because it's so that we don't do anything if we can't do anything with fine policies and we can't build a good system, a human system that grabs sick people if we don't have well- educated staff to catch these people, because the system is nothing without a powerful staff, and, of course, there's one of the most serious weaknesses in our system today. To say that, I just want to encourage people to do good things in this regard. We're here to shape this course. We agree completely on our goals. We fully agree that we want a network that grabs people with mental problems. We can discern ways, but our goals are clear, and our destination is clear, so I hope that if this case is approved, we will not have another one of the same reports as the State Review of Days, where the score of the progress of the policy previously determined will have dropped.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u125	A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of more part of the European Committee on Environment and Transport for a proposal to conduct a judicial resolution of a policy-making strategy for the 2022/2036. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by guests, and they received reviews, as mentioned in a committee program. The Commission in general discussed a community plan, but according to the laws on community planning and application programmes, the plans shall describe the state's policy in regional policy and coordination with other public policies and strategy. The majority feel that a positive change has occurred from an approved legal programme in 2015, which includes some of them. It involves increased consultation and coordination. The aims of measuring results are laid down and the proposed first motions are set out nine success measures to assess the progress of the three national policies laid out in the laws on strategy and application programmes. In addition, individual success measures are set out for individual measures. For the first time, action in a community plan is linked to the United Nations World Goals and after events with other official policies and plans. Counts the larger portion of these innovations to enhance the coherence of the framework and facilitates its follow-up. As shown in the proposal's report, there was a wide range of consultations with the proposal, including Meetings were held with all councils, meetings were held with all national members of the rural community, and close consultation with the European Union. At that time, there was a consultation course on the site of a living agency and a consultation in government consultations. The members of the Committee generally expressed great joy in their consultation. A greater portion of the arrangement considers meeting with the development of a building plan to be exemplary, but I urged that a new community structure will be presented specifically to the first members of the community. It was noted at a meeting of the Committee with representatives of the local Ministry that such a presentation will be held in the fall, calling for local views in all parts of the country. The Commission discussed the funding of a building plan, but at the Committee meeting it was found to be of considerable concern, as shown in a break-down table on a budget 202/203/2006 at the front. In the proposal, contributions to a community plan will be less than 3.3 billion dollars. to the 36 initiatives designed to be funded by local means. In addition, contributions are made to the transport balance fund of oil products. The report also shows that most of the initiatives are funded by contributions from other litigation groups and support programmes, therefore, only part of the total financing. The majority agree with the perspective that it is important to ensure full funding of the market plans, but it also points to a better source of information on the overall funding of the individual projects and the overall programme. The Commission is particularly celebrating the co-ordination of climate-based programmes. The majority rejoice that the proposal contains direct action on climate. For example, a procedure aims to shape a global approach to adaptation of rural society to the impact of climate change and a procedure aimed at increasing carbon binding and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases from land by changing land use. In addition, the Committee discussed the equations of transport costs and energy costs. A critical conclusion was found that there were no special measures in the transport costs, and further contributions to the category according to financial programmes would not be expected. The majority of the data shows that according to regional transport laws, no. 160, from 2011 onward, it is a financial institution. More people agree to the Ministry's assessment that it is not needed as a specific operation in the development program. Comments were made to suggest that there are no targeted actions on the average energy costs of rural areas. The majority of the data shows that in the existing programme there are emphasises on the equation of energy costs for households under the target a on the equal access to services. Then I am the action plan for action a two-order energy costs. The aims of the operation or energy costs to rural areas and urban areas will be equal both for the distribution of electricity and for the cost of house warming. Then the committee discussed health care in the country. The greater part welcomes special action of three emergency services, emergency services will be improved and greater security will be maintained throughout the country, including by detecting the emergency service time and map the set to allow the time to be shortened. The same applies to the six access procedures in the field of health care professionals. Its aim is to level access to a variety of specialized services regardless of their location. The majority of the countries are entitled to secure access to health services as basic human rights to the President's residence security. Thus, the majority stress that in the future work, whether in the implementation of the next or the next development, the quality and availability of health services in the country should be improved. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees suggest some adjustments in the proposal. First, there is a change in research and science. Commenting on the fact that there was no emphasis on research and scientific activity, the current basis for research and scientific development has been found. The majority of them consider it important to promote such activities in the country and suggest that the aims of equal access to services are improved by the emphasis on that element. Second, a change in agriculture is proposed. It was noted that if construction is to be actually supported, it is necessary to support the agriculture as it may be a vertebrae in communities in the region. The majority of these support measures support and therefore contribute to the development of sustainable land-based development, as well as support for agriculture as an important component, food security and groundwork in the country's habitat patterns. Finally, a change is proposed in regard to new activities, green industry. It was noted in the review of national activation that increasing the focus on climate and sustainableity can have a strong and positive effect on Iceland's competitiveness, e.g. already there are activities based on the use of renewable local resources. Therefore, it is important to focus overall on the opportunities that this trend will produce, including, the results. opportunities for employment development supporting urban development. The majority of them feel that it is important to support and make better use of opportunities to build green jobs based on regional strengths. Therefore, contributes to the above - mentioned new measures, green industry. These are proposed minor changes that do not require specific consideration. Or would you point to a detailed discussion of the changes made in the committee's opinion? According to the above, a greater proportion of the environment and transport committee contributes to the approval of the proposal by the changes made. Under the committee's opinion of literature, as well as the above, p. Councilmen, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarni Jónsson, Helga Helgadóttir Velgadóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and Gunnlaugsdóttir Signdaldóttir. That'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u126	Madam President. I have come up here not to say anything materially but to point out what is a slight mistake on a document. I heard why. A member of the Parliament says that more parts of the environment and transportation committee arose in my office. I started looking at the committee opinion. You see, I also described myself in the form of a majority wing party. I therefore think that if the entire committee is considered, this is just a matter of Congress, these words say: Is the members of the Senate in some kind of panic trying to meet the printing of the document for me? I don't know if they've ever done this late in the process and maybe too late for it in my transmission address is over but see what sets text or not. At least I've described here my plan, which was to include in this opinion with the rest of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u127	Hv. 1st. That's the north side. "Ingibjörg Ólöf for six. But a respectable president, thank you very much. A senator for the counter-sponsored. So, actually, it's a very boring thing to hear because there was a lot of cooperation with the Committee on this project and a lot of harmony, and I really hope that it was called. We'll have an office to sort this out. A senator will be considered worthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u128	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating that a date-based plan for a 15-year five-year plan of action and at last leave for the council. I think most of us have expected it to be before the end of the council before the last election, as was a delay to publish and deliver the report of the White Book to and of 31 March 2021, but that is why they have been presented here a positive change in research and science, support for agriculture and renewable energy. The strategy and plan of action are likely the most important guide we have in our community and applies to all aspects of our policy. It is equal access to services, equal opportunities to work and contribute to sustainable development across the country. What makes it so powerful and powerful is in my mind great and good consultations and cooperations with the process as well as with the follow-up. The building plan is closely linked to the activities of the national part of the rural community, which may be mentioned in total 39 times. In the current policy and subsequent action programme. Then most of the work plans are made. It is a specific project, application site and fracture risk based on a large portion of the national part of the network. It is no wonder, then, that at the same time as the national body members are getting added responsibilities and responsibilities in a policy-making programme as well as they have been assigned to work as a result of the decomposition of Iceland's Management Centres, the government's contributions to the national community and its parishion programmes are greatly reduced. This will be counted in a cry of inconsistencies with the government covenant, which says that the parts of the country will be strengthened, including some of them. ... throughthe national parish Plans. However, there is still hope to explain the legal status of the national community to the work they do. The value of such projects is also high in the process itself, which has power for people across the country. Its purpose is to bring to the local people, to increase the responsibility for the provision of funds associated with the strategy and to encourage increased cooperation and consultation within the national parts. Among the different economic and home groups, there is an opportunity to look for ways to meet the challenges of today and the future as well as to look to the solutions of that parish. I believe that there is a special reason to call attention to the group c four called urban policy, but the objective of this operation is that the largest urban area will be strengthened and their competitiveness and the role of urban development will be strengthened. Based on the work group on the construction of capitalism and the work group on the regional role of the Akureyris, policies will be shaped which define the role of Reykjavík as capital and contribute to the increased international competitiveness of the capital and the role of the construction of the Akureyris as an area of city that can offer increased diversity in services, culture, and employment opportunities. I have strong hopes that there will be a splatter in my hands at this job and that the current policy will be established sooner than later. Then, of course, I rejoice that now it is in a rural program of order for government administration, councils, committees, and working groups to reflect the distribution of habitats in the country. I have already requested and received an answer to a minister in most cases on how this is done. So now we have a zero analysis which must be made simple for monitoring results. Finally, I'd like to say that there is an increased chance of using a core plan, a national sectoral application program, especially in equality. As shown in the case of the Management Board's status report, the review of gender criteria from 2021 C.E., it is stated by President's permission that there are still considerable differences in sexual status, and this is related to the focal point where studies show that the removal of women of the strongest characteristics of society in trouble, while outside the capital area, women are mostly fewer than men. Thus, social and social issues are really intertwined, and my attendance should further emphasize the intertwining intersect of equality and settlement in a community plan. According to this, it is a joy to find the activities of the job and to receive after-productisation in the implementation programme, particularly important work-related and regional policy measures in which the analysis of the impact of a local sexual market is made. The effectiveness of home people in the national and national activities that contribute to cooperation, and the interwork work is in my mind one of the most valuable things to plan and plan for them. To say that they are, of course, sad to say, that as many measures as you can see are not clearly financed, which, of course, weakens the overall use of tools and reduces the likelihood of success. But I would like to say that I believe in a ground plan, and I believe that it is important to continue both policy and policy activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u129	The head of the General and Education Committee, what? 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Britaise Haraldsdóttir, a respectable president, is excusing this in the last record when a lot of things are being done at once, but I recommend a committee of more parts of the General and Education Committee on bill to legalize criminal treatments, No. 88/2008. The bill, on the other hand, involves a comprehensive change in criminal treatment laws and a change in the law of full penalties, the sharing of information on violations and the bill. The bill will improve the legal status of the offender, the legal rights of the disabled, and the legal standing of the victims. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor's meeting and received reviews and reports on the supposed aluminium at hand. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, to say that there are, in fact, three things that are being done if they three times a purpose here with this bill. First, the bill seeks to add legal rights to police and courts criminal treatment. In this regard, there is a difference. suggest that the access of a court-care unit to the study level must be basically the same as the introduction of the servers to the post-contracted violations after reporting that the justice officer will be authorized to direct the reporting to the Court's review to a more intensive violation of law will be allowed to be subject to the treatment of appeals and that the treatment of appeals will be possible for the trial to require an unpredictation of the procedure requiring appeal to the court's declarations declaration of penance of penalties when the defendant has been excused and excused by court. Second, the change is suggested to make changes in the aim of improving the rights of disabled persons to the treatment of police and courts. These include: suggest in certain cases that a report of disabled Witnesses or witnesses will be taken into special housing as well as that a judge can encourage a layman to assist him in the hearing of a disabled witness, and third, it is scheduled by the bill to improve the legal status of a dead person in the case of a police investigation directed to his cause of death. So it must be permitted to appear as a representative of the deceased under police investigation and, in certain cases, may be possible to appoint a representative of the bailiff. The committee has discussed this matter, perhaps preferably the views that have existed that the bill is not going far enough. The majority of the shares, however, are counted in the current process, which has become the preferred first step, and not the reason to go further as a result of administering break-throughs of a position or membership to a position, does not realize that this would in fact improve the rightness of tested violations. The majority of the data suggests that once changes are made, there must be a careful step to the ground and caution to ensure that the changes intended to strengthen the level of structural resistance do not in effect lead to reduced damage, e.g. Disrespects his credibility and, at the same time, increases the likelihood that a guilty person will avoid responsibility. The majority consider the changes proposed by the bill to be of great importance and timely importance and to make matters worse. Then the committee discussed the legal status of disabled persons in connection with the arrangements for reporting. The bill expects the judge to decide that the report will be taken from a broken - down, mental - or intellectual - impairment, or impaired perception of a specially designed home. The majority claim that this is an exception from the principle that a judicial hearing should carry on a regular matter. The rest of the section does not feel that it is proper to have the press carried out in a special home, but does not realize that it serves the interests of its proprietors in all cases and that it is right to leave that assessment to a judge rather than allow the legislation to set nonessential order without room for evaluation. The greater part of the claim, though, is that in each judge's assessment whether any reports should be carried out in a special facility, a judge would have effective consultations with the partner and those taking care of his interests and each time determining whether his own facilities will take into account his needs. A greater part is directed to a minister to consider which situation is most appropriate when the adult disabled is involved. The majority consider the changes suggested by the bill very important and timely and in order to improve the rightfulness of disabled persons. Then, in addition, the committee discussed the legal status of the members. The majority agree with the importance of extending increased rights to the users and indicate that, on the basis of local law, the failure of the candidates to take any formal stand against the police and that they do not have many resources to monitor the progress of the police investigation. Therefore, the majority consider it extremely important to improve this end to be of secondary interest by obtaining information on the progress of the study. The majority consider the changes proposed by the bill that candidates can present themselves as a representative of a deceased person to the police and the change to be allowed to appoint a candidate for the dead person of the court if they have, if they have, in the opinion of the police's need for such assistance during the investigation of the case, a very important legal act for the candidates. The majority of these points to the minister's careful monitoring that changes will achieve their aims of improving the legal status of the caregivers. There are small legal adjustments in the committee's opinion that we feel we do not need special coverage but are available. In the above, a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee will be put in place to allow the bill to be adopted with minor changes. Under the view of more than a portion of the universal educational committee and the above, why not? The members of Parliament, Birgir Þórarinsson, Jóhann, Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdotir, Hilda Jana Gísladóttir, and Gautason Götason. I think that's what. paritaprevir Arndís Anna K. Gunnarsdóttir, is also willing to accept this, according to the information I received earlier, but unfortunately she could not be at the time when the matter was taken out of the committee. I think we have a really good case here. In fact, this case was presented March 29, but unfortunately it was not possible to measure the case until May 23, which means that the matter has been briefly entered into a General and Education Committee. I took it that way first, I thought that, unfortunately, this would probably be a good thing, not a law here in spring, but I'm particularly grateful. A global and educational committee prepared to work hard that we could handle this. We thus received visitors, even though they had no doubt been allowed to have more and carefully considered the matter. This case isn't brand-new. It was also suggested during the last assembly, but unfortunately it didn't get to be a law then, but it's changed according to the narratives received, so I have an overexcited feeling of it, a respectable president, that here we are taking an important step in improving the rightness of violations and I hope so earnestly agree that we will make this law overnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u130	Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. I'm here to present a committee opinion with a change in proposal from what it was. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson on bill to legalize criminal treatments, the law assures punishment, the improvement of the rights of disabled persons and the occurrence of seats from a smaller part of the General and Education Committee. The minority feels that it is important to reinforce the rights of those who are disabled and those who live in need. The bill is an important part of this journey. When changing criminal laws, caution should always be exercised, and all such changes must be considered on the basis of principle of justice. The minority takes notes in the review of the district attorney and Iceland's prosecution. A review by the district attorney points out that certain aspects of the bill may violate the principle of criminal rights that the prosecution's evidence is laid upon the prosecution, as stated at 108. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008. In this regard, it is fundamental to discuss the custody of the prosecution of a court case. The charges and proof of the law state that the defendant's guilt and the incident that he may be persuaded to take a nap in the prosecution. In the second paragraph of Article 7 paragraph. The bill discusses the authority of a court official to present questions to those who report to the court of justice points other than the property of his private court requirements. According to the prosecutor's Rigs, laws are discussed in order to cause dissension against the defendant, who will then have to protect himself from two judicial hearings. The minority feels that it would have been necessary to consider this opinion based on Article 6. The European Convention on Rights of Just and Official Treatments within the rights of an independent and discriminatory court, which is also guaranteed in the Constitution and of the European Court of Human Rights and of the Court of Human Rights. It is important to bear in mind that, inconsistencies with the defendant in a criminal case, the right to the righteous treatment of the court's justice to the charge of the charges. Iceland's partner also discussed other material issues of a- team, 7th par. in his review, saying that with a law of justice, a judge can enter the prosecution's field of action on the basis of principle 108. g. the treatment of criminal cases. In addition, it is worth pointing out that there seems to be an intervening conflict between the committees of other paragraphs, a-Japanese 7. and b-joints 7. .. where it appears that a court official cannot ask for the prosecution's claim. Not to the merit of his client's rights. The smaller section considers the bill to be a positive factor in its approval to increase the level of rightfulness of so - called disabled persons. However, the minority counts, in view of the above, to pause to comment on the district attorney and charge if Iceland's membership is proposed to make changes to the bill in accordance with the comments of the above parties. It is suggested that in the second paragraph of the 7th. g., who state the authority of a court official to ask about other matters, but for the exclusive rights of his client, he will be removed. It's also suggested in Article 12. to 12th C.E. Impelled for the sake of the above - mentioned material, let him depart. A-Lows. 7. Therefore, the reduction suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: One other difference in subject between a-joints, sector 7. ... goout. Two 12. ... goout and sign this. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u131	Kári Gautason. Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the changing of criminal treatment laws and the laws of full penalties and accept with the Honorable Chairman of the General and Education Committee. The foundation here is a very good case, a reverse case, as discussed in the above discourses, two forms of change, an improved level of legal prosecuting in the treatment of police and in court. Second, change to improve the legal status of disabled persons and third, improve the legal status of a deceased person. I'm going to be here primarily on this team of 1st, discussing the views that appeared on the work of the Commission in a joint review of the force, the sexual and domestic violence organization, the Feminist Association of Iceland, the Women's Women's Women's Association, the Women's Women's Rights Association, the Roots, the conversations of women where the UN Women in Iceland and the Women's Association of Iceland. They pointed out that although these are important steps, it was not seen to include full - time violations in the situation. And why is this so important to the point that they pointed out that the tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual violence is often experienced by being put aside in the legal system, even though the treatment may not bring them up to experience them in the system, and this is somewhat discussed in the series of articles of the bill, in effect a philosophical ideological question that they are in Icelandic rights, so it is government that it is responsible for the perpetrators of crime and so it is. In fact, it is being said that it is a violation of the public interest in individuals, and it makes you very strong in the discussion that this is a real problem, that the system of justice does not achieve an adequate improvement in the right way. The committee. She did a lot of talking about it. They had a lot of discussions, these views, and they are important that they are discussed here in this room. It's because I can personally agree with this view or that this ideological viewpoint is important that it is not only the State that it is responsible for the offense against other individuals but also that the offender is involved in this process. But what mattered to me, and what was really important to me, is that he would report a report in a criminal case as a rather but not as a witness, and this may have been a way of making the credibility of violations would have been recognizable by the fact that he is a member but not a witness, thus in fact, against the interests of the offender that, often and often the most important evidence in the case. And so I just wanted to draw this out a little bit more because I think it's an important point and the more part thinks it's a very good first step in this direction. Although here is a violation tolerance issue, this is the way it is done in the bill, and it is timely. It is long timely in view of a community discussion on such subjects in recent years, and we look to the northern countries as well as reforms. I think, and I think it would be a good thing to think that there will only be more discussion about this ideological element in the justice system, because it may be a little bit more about the fact that there was the main population of men who created the legal system in the old age. It is as if it was built up, fine, and fine from many categories of offenses, but this violation is part of the category of sexual violence and sexual violence. I don't think it's excessive to say that we can do much better there, both of us know. We were given quite a chilling statistics in the Committee on how a small portion breaks down and how much of them falls and what kind of thing they do. In addition to this, a list is just a process it doesn't exist. These people experience justice through this, but it's an important step in improving these experiences because it's an independent problem if the process is, and I hope there'll be more of the first-orders of this kind from the Minister of Justice. When this is a very good case, and I've concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u132	Yes, Madam President, I'd like to say a few words about this case, which is being treated and treated by a full-scale and academic committee on a bill for the treatment of criminal matters and the law on the full penalties that are being added to the level of rights of disabled persons and caregivers, and, of course, it's urgent, very important, and I know the highest level. Likewise, a minister thanks for bringing it into the council, and he is very pleased with the way the committee handled it, perhaps as it is sometimes in a short time pressure. We've been trying to find ways to improve our system for a long time, and then we're talking about from offense to final punishment, that there are all human tolerance, being reasonable and effective without being detracted or thrown to calm or thrown to the calm and the human rights that the defendants and the condemned men should enjoy. Of course, I'd like to mention all these factors here, because even though we're now dealing with police and court treatments, it's just as important that the person who receives the conviction that it is right and fair and human, because it is also less likely that the same person will break his back, and we can do this by making our prisons humane and putting more emphasis on reform. In fact, I'd like to say that this is an effective way to reduce future fragility over these repeated fragments that we know well. But this may be a little out of the way, but it's important to mention it here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I, as many others have long scratched my head because we have this system here in Iceland that has been so difficult, fragile, as it really is, and we haven't had to be watching long or thorough media or on community media to see many examples of it since the first hand, of course. We're tracking the reports of people who go through this system and who actually experience treatment like another offense. In other words, there will be someone who is involved in a serious offense and then there is some additional damage that seems to result from going through all this together with police and courts and by these voices, we must listen and we must take note of them and try to do everything in our power to improve, and that is why I rejoice that we will be given the opportunity to look into this and go through it. Of course, much has been done to correct this situation, and it has become a huge change of attitude in these matters, as we have seen. Of course, this has not just been achieved among people. Of course, it has somehow infiltrated the courts of law. It would be better now. But it is still too slow for people to feel that these things are going too slow, and we are still getting reports of the enduranceists who point out that there is still a considerable lack and debate in this case. Of course, there is one evidence that we can mention the guidance of the power that is together the feminist society, the university, Iceland's Women's Association, the Women's Women's Women's Women's Rights Association, Elevity, Gang, UN Women's Association, Iceland, and so on the report is that tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual violence has long been called after the radical changes in the legal system, the experienced side of treatments, and did not come to them. The formality. A witness in this case underscores this failure - resistant experience. In fact, it's confirmed. It is important that violation tolerance be taken into a position in the case, as well as on the basis of the ideologies of rights when a person is subjected to all authority over his own body and that man is absolutely to experience continued excommunication in the legal system. Rather than get some of the power back, there is no chance of bringing in wrongy justice. That, of course, is quite a powerful review. Of course, there are many who would like to go further or to take a different route than they are doing in this matter. However, I would like to account for the viewpoints that were presented because, of course, I understand this fault quite well, and it is, of course, being discussed, as I testified, a violation of the case. It is involved in the situation of not witnessing in their own language but in a person's case. It's all understandable. But then it was also presented to the committee that it calls for much greater responsibilities and places it in a different position when his witness or report is reviewed and considered in the report and that it is already, with the permission of the president, when it is discussed as a legal party, the distinction can be made between perfect membership, position, and part participation. Complete involvement in a position involves not only having violations of extreme rights but also taking on these duties that I mentioned as a subject of the State, such as deciding whether to issue charges or whether to file charges about the prosecution. It is responsible for the lawsuits, to collect, or to have the officiating of the hearing of the prosecution with the prosecution, and to be responsible for other cases of criminal activity, so in view, these increased rights also include increased responsibilities. The actual ones that were being pointed out, and this was a lot discussed on the committee, simply because we have a great deal of sympathy for those who want to make a case of wrongdoing, understand both sides of this, and there are, of course, some ways to witness to Finland and Sweden as mentioned, and then in Norway soils in ways other than here, and that may be the way that is trying to go now and there are some ways to improve the situation with this bill. There is an increased bioavailability of data. The violation may be present, closed council after reporting, that a justice officer will be permitted to direct questions to the hearing of the hearing, and, of course, there are other points there, and in this case, changes are also being proposed to improve the legal standing of disabled persons in the treatment of criminal charges before and in the police, and I agree with what will show up, as well as these efforts to improve the legal standing of the dead when the police are being tested for cause of death. So I just want to say that I think this case is a big step in progress and that it supports it. But I'd also like to make it clear that if this is not enough to settle down after police and court treatment, if we continue to experience this tremendous distrust of our system, if people feel that they are still alive, they will get some additional punishment just to go through police and court treatments. Then, after that time, we will ask ourselves again if the way Finnar and Sweden go is even better, so, of course, we need to keep on the watch, keep on awake, and be ready to make further adjustments. If this can be done to improve the court standing for court and police work, while more people have not been silent and are done talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u133	Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee for the Committee to Commission on bill change of marriage law, which is No. 31/1993. The bill includes a change in marriage law, which is the goal of strengthening the lives of the victims of domestic violence and ensuring the right to break the marriage and the simple divorce process for a married couple who agree to end their marriage. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by guests, and some reports were received of the committee's opinion that followed the discussion of the matter. Wants a greater part of the General and Education Committee specifically that the Committee discussed domestic violence's tolerability and warrants the importance of being supported by victims of violence and thinking that the simplicity of the principle may be part of this support. Then the Committee discussed a general review of laws and administration laws that are subject to marriage and would direct a greater part to a minister to review marriage laws. The majority also consider the need to make room for regulations in terms of the terms of divorce, financial matters, or management. Prescients will not be as burdensome to family abuse as they are today as the analysis of human resources and the need for capital candidates to ensure the use of practical and efficient treatments, divorces, and all that is associated with them. The majority of the material is important that the above review should be performed as soon as possible. The majority of the top-of-the-art Education Committee contributes to changing the bill. First of all, a change in the b-line 2 mg is proposed. a-arms 6. The bill is about the police calling for domestic violence. The change is suggested that the police are not obliged to provide police reports in opposition to the rules for submission of data in criminal affairs and thus contributes to a change in the law. Second, a change in the treatment of divorce due to domestic violence is proposed at paragraphs 6 and 7. The bill. On the one hand, that a mate can demand divorce without the exception of divorce to the table and bed before the politicians, if any mate is guilty of wrongdoing, or if they have been judged for it. However, the fact that a spouse can demand divorce without the exception of divorce to a table and to the court if there is evidence from a police officer who confirms the threat of domestic violence or other evidence such as an injury certificate or a psychologist's assessment suggests that a marriage requiring divorce or a child who lives with them has suffered physical abuse on the part of his or her spouse. The majority consider this to be more favorable to the courts than to the locals than to be fired as a hurry - up case before court. Third, a change in terms of reconciliation is proposed. The rest of the section thinks it's right to make a change to 8. The bill of hiding the change at 42. The law does not require reconciliation treatment when a separation is required on the grounds of domestic violence, allowing marriage mates to be tested in separate ways, and if that is the will of a businessman or a judge to be the principle, but that a husband and wife are allowed to go to religion or to have a philosophy, it is the will of both. Fourthly, adjustments in the implementation of Article 10. The bill so that it will be postponed to July 1, 2023, so that the managers of the law, and then only the most private member of the county, have the opportunity to adapt their therapy to the modified framework, introduce new processes, and update their instructions and systems, otherwise referred to for a detailed discussion on these and others in the Committee of More Generals and Education Committees. According to the above, a greater proportion of the global and educational committees will contribute to the approval of the bill by the changes made and by the opinion of the majority of the publications as well as the above. The members of the assembly, Birgir Þórarinsson, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Jóhann Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, Hilda Jana Gísladóttir, and Kári Gautason. A respectable president. I'd like to know that this is a majority opinion, but the subject is originally transferred from the point of view. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son to be discarded She's the first official on the case, and there are more couriers, both of the Parliamentary and of the other councils, I'm still only on government side. But that does not change the fact that this is a very good matter, and we reached a good job in improving matters further so that they were fully serving their purpose and would be helped to improve the legal status of those who are involved in domestic violence. A respectable president. As I studied here in a talk on a fine subject earlier, this is a matter that may have been given a deeper and more job within the committee, although it was a time recommendation and it was in the committee for a considerable period of time. This is what I would like to say, to take advantage of the opportunity and to thank the members of both the Committee members, the Committee of Public Education and Education Committees and, in particular, the members of the House of Independence and the Parliament that worked together the weekend in cooperation with the Ministry and other experts in making it possible to achieve a deep and great deal of reconciliation, and I think that this will show just fine that we can certainly work together on good matters and I hope that the matter will be agreed. As the committee proposes in its opinion, an honorary eighth is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u134	If you do, Mr. President, probably in the privacy of your home one of the most common acts of violence committed in Iceland. These offenses are serious, especially because violence is used in a close relationship that is bound together by current law, providing the lives of violent people, not too easy to get out of marriage. This is especially true of those who endure, spiritually, and financially, or who are being oppressed in a relationship. This bill is designed to deal with this problem, and the goal is to strengthen the position of victims of violence and ensure that they have the right to break up marriage. Marriage is a legal and formally established agreement between two persons to spend their lives together and to share the responsibility for home and children if they are to distribute marriages accompanied by a commitment to faithfulness and conduct as well as the right to genetics. Another couple from the basis of marriage is the agreement, and they can accept and agree on their own grounds that legal conditions are met. In 1993, however, their laws on divorce are much similar to those of the earlier law on marriage from 1972 that had also made limited changes in the content of this bill all earlier laws since 1921 C.E. President. Of course, it is vital that the current marriage law reflect a mirror in advance. Social emphasis has been greatly altered, including in view of the roles and positions of authority of the sex of the home and of the individual freedom of the family, as well as the position and importance of marriage as fundamental unity in society. However, although marriage is an important unit in this society, its importance has been reduced by the appearance of varied living forms, increasing community support for single parents, and the acceptance of society in different family patterns. Therefore, there is not as strong evidence for the long periods of time as for legal divorce as in previous times, especially since time limits and restrictions prove to be a source of great burden to those who are accustomed to violence in marriage. It is long out - of - date to remain married, no matter what. Similarly, a person is free to marry, and he should be free to break up his marriage. As noted earlier, violence in homes is one of the most common forms of violence in Iceland. It is especially related to the person who is a person who is a victim, but it certainly makes it harder for the person to break off from the doer and thus escape the violence. The Women's Relations of Family Violence reports that there may be a number of ways to develop physical, mental, sexual, financial and digital, as well as many behaviors that involve threats, threats, control, and/or harassment. Then there are often more than one form of violence, and its manifestations are also many such as humiliation, emotional oppression, rejection, disregard, isolation, and economic control, but also beatings, rape, and physical injury. All of this should be counted as valid for marital separation, which is not really in accordance with current marriage laws. Although some attempts have been made to define domestic violence in law and order, it remains that there is no single general definition, it must be emphasized that violence in close relationships includes not merely a collection of individual cases but that such behavior could be respected as one whole. Thus, attention must be given to, fear, and fear of a situation that can develop, as well as to the ongoing emotional suffering, oppression, and inadequacy experienced under such circumstances. President. What follows now is that it looks like a bill that will become a law, but he was the first sender of a comparable bill in 149 C.E. that failed to measure for them and again proposed to the 150th Council and was able to recommend it in November 2019. But then, at this assembly, a third decision is made on the matter, being the first transporter, sharp. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson with other whisks. Councilmen and this time they are also improved by a bill from what they do. A senator from the bill. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who also discussed better routes of divorce. During our restoration, we have always emphasized equality, especially the right of women in various fields. I'd especially like to mention the same amount of pay card. Emphasis is to extend a share of women's classes when it comes to buying and selecting consent. The rules of Icelandic penalties when rape is defined and now to pay the way of women and, of course, for all those who are married from marriage where violence is used by these actions, I am very proud. President. Finally, I want to thank the General and Education Committee for a good job and the rich will to make a success of this matter, but let's not forget that we have a considerable work to do on these topics and on the bill, as it appears today, we are given further promises of employment. In my mind, however, there is no doubt that this is a great act of justice for those who are married to violence and who desire to be released from that grave.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u135	A respectable president. I hereby recommend to the greater part of the General and Education Committee for the Committee to Commission for the Change of bill for Changing Alcohol Laws, No. 75/1998, and I hope everyone hears how excited I am. The bill suggests that smaller alcoholic producers will be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages at a local manufacturing site to certain conditions. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor's meeting and received reviews and reports on the already mentioned aluminium party. The committee discussed the positive effects that it is believed that sales at the manufacturing site can lead to a loss, including some of the results. Jobs, tourism, production, and building grounds and how they would strengthen the management ground of hand mills all over the country. For the Committee it also discussed the importance of developing this complete review of alcohol law in view of the changes that have taken place in the community in terms of increased internationalization, technology progress and on the basis of the EEA partnership, as well as on public health issues. The majority of the panels believe that using the bill there is a conservative step in allowing sales at the manufacturing site to be met with the specified criteria, however, which are not designed to have a major impact on the increased bioavailability of alcohol in general. The majority believe that there is reason to review alcohol legislation on the basis of the collective policy set in the seminary. Then the Committee discussed the prevention and effect of the bill on alcohol, including alcohol consumption. Alcohol and drug abuse problems, young people, and prevention because of them. The majority believe that the bill contains limited access to alcohol sales, is present at restricted sites, and the risk of alcohol consumption and display is not significant. The aim of these laws is not to interfere with the role of the State Alcohol and Tobacco, nor with the alcohol policy so far. The majority of them address the importance of prevention, but for many years the limitation of alcohol bioavailability due to public health concerns has been guided by the sale of alcohol in the country. It is important that the evaluation of the impacts of government measures on human health and direct the more part to the Minister's office that the surgeon's office be assigned to perform public health assessments of the impact of change and to perform counter measures. When such food is available. The majority of them feel normal that there will be agreements in spending time with smaller alcoholic producers and the store of Alcohol and Tobacco in the country. Then the Committee discussed the conditions of the bill that must be met in order to obtain the manufacture of sales permits. This is about the specific production capacity of alcohol from raw materials. It was considered whether conditions were too burdensome, including taking into account the Constitution's 90th rule and how to monitor it. There was also an opinion as to whether the bill would involve differences that would conflict with the EEA Convention. The greater part highlights that according to the bill, there is a small amount and a clear market for sale. Then the greater portion points out that in Article 3. The bill is specified as being able to include the Minister. Details of the implementation of the Agency's activities in the Regulation. Change more part of a global and educational committee contributes to changing the bill. First, it is proposed that the secretary should set up a regulation on the maximum amount of alcohol authorised to sell to a local retailor at a local manufacturing site. Thinks the greater portion of it normal to refer to the arrangement set aside in Iceland, which limits the amount of alcohol - based formula. The majority of the shares are considered essential in view of the public health issues observed during the review of the Committee, including from the surgeon's office, that the boundaries are the same as found in Article 4. Regulation No. 630/2008. Second, the majority feel that the bill takes into account the interests of all smaller alcoholic manufacturers. It is the manufacturer's handiwork, but it is not limited to selling alcoholic drinks. Therefore, a greater proportion of the Commission contributes to changes in the bill, allowing all types of alcohol to be sold at the manufacturing site, provided the overall production of the permit holder is not limited to a maximum in the case of alcohol, which is in volume more than 12% of pure alcohol consumption. Counts the greater portion just to limit total production of licenses to a hundred thousand gallons per year. The reason for this is that the goal of the bill is to support smaller alcoholic producers, and the same maximum production in almanac years cannot be given at the root when the permit holder produces a stronger alcohol. In that case, the majority of the items correctly stated in the legislation that the sale authority is restricted only to the manufacture of the authorised materials at the manufacturing site. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical changes that do not require special coverage. In other respects, we're going to refer to a detailed discussion of change proposals in the opinion of more part of the General and Education Committee. In the above, a greater proportion of the global and educational committees will contribute to the approval of the bill by the changes made. Under the opinion of a greater part of the universal and educational committee of publications, as well as here, h. Councilmen, Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Kristirdóttir Gónsdótir, Birgir, Jóhann Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, Gautason Götason, and Hilda Gísladóttir Gíslísótir, and Sigmar Guðmundsson, a member of the Committee, agree with this view. As my speech was first heard, I, a respectable president, am especially excited that it seems to me that for the first time in a very long time, it is to gather together for the changes in alcohol law. I have, of course, pushed this description of my love for the alcohol laws here in speeches from the time I took my place at the council because, yes, the matter has been a few times for discussion, but in view of our failure to make significant changes in the alcohol law and to cancel the private license of the NTVR as if the one here would prefer, I think the change in this subject is extremely enjoyable. Of course, this is both a source of support and strength to those who are in the innovation and production of products that are, yes, legal in Iceland. We have seen an interesting new species of tourism exist in recent years, where farmers and producers of alcoholic drinks have sprang up so many parts of the country, and they are doing quite exhilarating cooling and good things, and these parties have repeatedly come forward and said that they are dependent on their business of not being able to sell alcohol but only for those who come into the place of drinking alcohol. In fact, I've heard stories of tourists in the Western Islands who are famous for everything but brewing beer and people coming to the Western Islands to visit a rocking house and taste beer and then to buy beer to take home as a souvenir asks: Is there anything else to this island because it's not as if it were there because of a volcano or any natural bulb? No, because of a brewery, we are talking about a new type of tourism and in many respects a new type of agricultural product. So I'm so happy that we in the General and Education Committee have come together on this matter because I know that there are some differences in viewpoints and that we've divided our views and considered things. An important change in these laws is that we are shifting it from what was in the prime minister so that anyone who manufactures alcohol after not being able to sell from a place of manufacture, not just those who produce beer to meet human health purposes, they or ministers will be put in office to set maximum standards of what buys it. I cannot help but realize that there may be differences in people's views. But I think we're in the hands of an overexploitively good case and, in view of the fact that this case has not been decommissioned on the council, and I don't get out of the committee, I'm very happy that it seems like we got together, and I hope that more of us here in the Senate can join with more parts in the General Information and Education Committee, and I stress that there's a lot more of it. It's not just the board of directors, it's that most members of the General and Education Committee agree with this. I know that there may not be just anyone, that's a minority opinion. But it's really nice to see such a broad solidarity coming up on such issues as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u136	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with an off-limit proposal for what? paritaprevir For example, the Eyjólfur of Ármannsson on a bill to correct a change in alcohol law, No. 75/1998, sales at a consumer restaurant from a smaller part of the General and Education Committee. This bill suggests that alcohol must be sold at a manufacturing site with more specific conditions. If the bill is legal, it will include variations from the main rule of a small sales sale that only a little alcohol is allowed at the State Alcohol and Tobacco shop that have the patented license for a little liquor sale. 10th par. August, No. 75/1998. This is a fundamental matter in the use of alcohol - dealing drugs, which have strong reasons for public health. The government's patent to sell alcohol is 100 years old. In 1922 a ban on the Spanish threat of setting customs on Icelandic salt fish was granted, but they believed that a break in free trade between the Danish and the Spanish enthusiasts meant that the state took a private sale on Spanish wine, which contained no more than 21% alcohol. That same year, the government's alcohol trade was established for sale in Spanish wine, and it was made. This was done by law No. 62/1921 on private liquor sales. The Commission discussed questions, particularly about human health, the impacts of the bill and its interaction with the EEA's free flow of free flow, in particular the public health issues. In terms of human health, the smaller part believes that the changes made on the bill cannot be addressed without public health evaluations for its effect. It has not been established, so there is uncertainty as to whether it has a harmful effect on the people's health, where alcohol consumption is increased. Research shows an increase in bioavailability that alcohol affects human health, almost without exception to the worse. Health, too, should be viewed as an enormously successful form of alcohol abuse for young people. Iceland has become a model for other countries. This shows that the current alcohol - based legislation produces good and important results that are important to those who do not interfere. A survey by Iceland's Cancer Society pointed out that a Swedish study found that allowing alcohol to be used in special stores would increase by 20% and alcohol related consumption. Some 18% increase in cancer deaths in 2018 was said to be alcohol consumption in Finland, thought to be the cause of 4,000 deaths, 46,000 admissions in 2008, but 8,000, 2800 cases, long - term disability, and 235,000 swimming. This is the case with crime, Davíð Finnish, equivalent to 1.6 million euros. That is the equivalent of 220 billion dollars. It is limited in alcohol sales, leading to greater distribution of alcohol to the public, and more damage to the public. According to the surgeon general's review, it is important to evaluate the effectiveness of the bill in terms of public health, and it would be important to consider it in relation to international national policies on public health. At present, a person dies every tenth seconds from drinking. Today, the World Health Organization Summit was adopted by the 75th World Health Organization (WHO) General at the end of May to implement international policies to reduce harmful alcohol consumption and become the focus of public health projects. The schedule should be set up in 2022 mouse030. Among its objectives is a 20% reduction in alcohol consumption, Iceland and Iceland clinic adopted the program and has the bill, if the bill becomes legal, access to alcohol would become easier and conflicted with this objective. The EEA Convention on Equality and Free flow of Products within the EU. A review by the Committee showed that similar changes in our neighboring countries have made it possible for foreign producers to demand the same kind of change. There is an exception from a private sale of the bioavailability of retails and domestic products. Manufacturers receive from the EEA Convention the principle of equality and free flow of goods. A review from the Ministry of Justice on these matters was called, and the answers from there concern us. The memo says: This brings special attention to the fact that in view of the short period of time the Ministry has to respond to the request of a global and educational committee, it is not possible to adequately evaluate whether the changes in the bill meet the requirements or the rules of action. The above words state a great deal and indicate that the bill has not been adequately studied considering the effectiveness of EU rules. On the bill, legislation was considered in Finland on the same subject. Whether to promote a certain group of foreign alcoholics was considered at that time. It's a smaller house. The sources of retails on alcohol, ale, ale, the alcoholic, the alcoholic at the manufacturing site may involve discrimination that conflicts with chapters 11 and 16. An agreement with the European Economic Area of the EEA Convention. Sv. 1 1. it is the target volume, the import restrictions specified as well as any action that has the corresponding effect. 16th degree. The contract shows that Member States should ensure that changes and government-based segregation do not include the distinction between EU citizens and the EFTA countries and the EFTA countries in terms of conditions for contracting and policy purposes killed employers. The employment driver's financial status is referred to in its reference that the domestic legislation for sale at a manufacturing site would not be a good example for this bill. It is also authorized to sell at store stores at a liquor store. It would have been mainly permitted to convey their products with the same conditions as the Finnish rocking houses, but this was not done in the bill and might therefore violate Europe'sitarian rule, Europe's rights. The minority does not agree with their viewpoints. It cannot be seen that a small sale of alcohol at the manufacturing site violates the EEA Convention's principle of equality as well as the free flow of goods. Distinguished by the principle of the private sale of alcohol, private sales with alcohol, while binding them to performances, violate principles of equality and free flow of cargo within the EEA. Other restrictions on the manufacture site should include all the south-southing factors within the EU, such as. limitation to the quantity of such a retail. This effect is not expected in the bill. It cannot be seen that foreign sources can be banned from selling alcohol into retails with the same restrictions they bind to a local retail site. This concept is uncontaminated by the committee and by the majority of the committee's section of the greater part. If the bill came to pass, then such laws would likely have been related to our commitments under the contract that are not adequately discussed. It is likely that foreign people or their sales agents are sought their legal rights in the EEA Convention. Bear in mind that this is a removal of the government's exclusive sales on alcohol that would have lasted for 100 years, yielded good results, and improved human health. According to the above, the lesser part suggests that the bill will be dismissed to the government. Under this, it's a w-w-w-w-w-w. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u137	With south, Mr. Dildstor Kristófersson, President. I like what I'm doing. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir rejoiced greatly on this bill and hoped that in fact, it would. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson was right about this as the first hole in the state's patent to sell on alcohol. I suppose, though, that this has not been the case with enough freedom of choice. paritaprevir In his presentation on the subject, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir went away. In no way can it be seen that this massive threat, linked to the availability of this product's inspection, has been examined in Iceland over the past few decades. I'm not old, I'm old enough to remember the state alcohol and tobacco store as it was, and there's a difference between being equal to alcohol now and then. However, I can say that my experience with my own children, my acquaintances as well as public figures shows that although access has greatly improved during that period, alcohol culture has greatly improved. At the same time, there is reason to have rigid rules on the availability of a product that, in the majority of the nation, eats without any special expense for society for their enjoyment because some of them have a disease that makes it impossible for them to control their consumption. And now I'd like to say that this is a disease that I have personally experienced in my immediate family. I must not always have to deal with that problem in another way. It's health issue, isn't it? Do we not find ourselves in a similar error, in fact, in dealing with the drug problem, having no purpose in costing ourselves and in all the questionable battles of the case that have not yet recognized the problem that health problems are rather than the availability of problems as a source of greater problems? So I embrace this bill very much, and as I said before, I hope so. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson was right in that this is the first hole in the private sale of the state, but in itself he can agree with the viewpoints that his discussion showed that the problems need to be taken, were seriously related to alcohol consumption. However, they will not be solved by limiting the bioavailability.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u138	A respectable president. I'm in agreement with the bill on every subject, but I'm aware of the warning I made on the change proposal just before it was taken out of a General and Education Committee. The original objective of the bill was to allow a smaller alcohol manufacturer to sell beer at a retail site for certain conditions. The committee noted that it would be undesirable to bind the rules to beer and thus separate other types of beer. Thus, a greater proportion of the committee suggested an definition of Article 4. The bill would be extended to cover the sale of more types of alcoholic beverages. This allowed the original goal of the bill to be expanded considerably without the opportunity to respond to the change. As a result, I took notice of this change in arrangement. Although I don't agree with the bill in all the points, it's all right. Senator 3 north-west.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u139	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a bill to correct a change in alcohol law, where we are giving alcoholic producers an opportunity to sell their own products at the manufacturing site or in nearby homes. This is significant because over the past few years, the number of producers in this field has increased, yes, and innovation has been great, and this is especially in the country, where there is a domestic alcohol industry. Many of them have worked very hard to build quality products and win awards and admittances, which include land introductions. These sources are unable to sell their own products, they do not get a shelf space, as due to little means they have not been able to sell their products from alcohol and the government tobacco trade ATVR unless they are very limited and this bill is intended to allow them to sell their own products at the site of manufacture. But this depends on the limitations. This can contribute to employment, growth and further employment opportunities throughout the country. Still, alcohol is not like any other food products, and this bill is restricted because we want to limit access to alcohol because of the effects it can have. Alcohol is harmful because it is a drug of substance, a drug that is legally high. We have a rating, a special wine license and a patent of alcohol and the government's tobacco stores. This is because we want to have limited access to alcohol. This bill is designed to increase equality between alcohol productions in Iceland. There's been a lot of discrepancy on that market. Initially, this bill assumed that we were only authorized to sell alcohol, an alcoholic ale that was completely dissolved, and Malta or undigested grain. I, who was only a volume of more than 12% of pure alcohol at the Committee, changed it to be independent of species. So there would be no need to be a special measure of grain, so there is now a possibility that you might have a lot, but in addition, there is a possibility that if you are producing a mannequin or whiskey, which are several places in Iceland that are doing it, we weren't adding to this inequities. But it's like I said, it's restricted. If you have more than 12%, then the amount of production is also 100,000 litres if you have less than 12%, then we have 500,000 and I think this is a good change from the bill as it came first. But I'd still like that bill to be unnecessary. Then I think it's time to reexamine the alcohol law as a whole. Then it would have to be with the individual's freedom in mind, too, with the nation's public health. You just have to look at everything. From base to point of view. Recontract 6th.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u140	A respectable president. I would like to use my virgin talk here at the High General Assembly to declare the support of this good bill, and thank you very much. Minister of Justice for volunteering. This is a matter of freedom, especially for the country and tourism. To me, it's such a self-important thing and a normal part of the operation of a rocking house. They get to sell their products in a local retailer, but not only through restaurants, but especially in view of the fact that these producers are a lot for retailers, and family companies have a serious problem getting goods, show sold in government production of the company ATVR. Today, there are 25 carpentry workshops, most of which are in the country just around the country. So this bill is designed to strengthen a wide range of jobs across the country. This fosters employment and promotes innovation, and to be honest, this is a long time - long, change that no one will ever understand in the future has ever been a political bite in here. That's at least My faith. In particular, I express special satisfaction with the change in the bill in the conduct of the council, where local microproducts of strong alcohol and likens to the table and to the crafts of the rocking houses. But we need to be more supportive of the small producers of this country and provide alcohol - based Internet stores. The producers find it hard to secure shelf space in the State monopoly, and this is harmful to their activities, and it is harmful for competition with alcohol. The production of the brewerys is by no means a high percentage of total alcohol, the production of the land. The bill will include a relatively small increase in selling alcohol. This does not interfere with alcoholism or our emphasis on public health. We are to trust people to make decisions for themselves about their own lives and lifestyles. There must be a very specific argument, and it is very important that the public's freedom of choice in these and other matters. The bill ensures a greater equality and provides a lift for small communities. It's a pleasure for tourism. It is a cause for rejoicing in the country, and, of course, for all the consumers of the country to speak up to ten others.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u141	Madam President. We here discuss alcohol or bill for changing the subject, which has often been a cause for great and long and frequent debate here and is particularly enjoyable to participate in this discussion, and I'm going to start by making one of my favorite, conservatives who, of course, is not of the same category that I said it was always the best time to consider what was being done to change the law, and therefore I'm going to do it only before I go to the changes I believe that the committee has made for the better part of this series that it is not intended to interfere with the role of alcohol and tobacco trade and alcohol policy of the people. That liquor store appears even in the past. in the aims of alcohol therapy, not to solve the problems resulting from total alcohol consumption, but to counteract abuse, which is crucial to the availability of alcohol. So much as it is possible to record it back and forth, which is the size of the effect and is, in fact, more scientific, question than political, and which one of which seems to be involved. However, in recent years Iceland has been very effective in improving alcohol culture, and I think it is possible to argue that access and the cornerstone of alcoholism, a government label on alcohol, are important. This too is considered in this chapter. Why is this suggested? It's pointed out. In the last decade, there has been a lot of growth in especially beer, the brewing of smaller mudhouses around the country, often in rural areas, and the offer of extremely tasty goods, and the fact that they have been able to provide outings where people have been able to come and try the product or buy on the basis of a wine license rather than buy in a small sale to take home and on it has been suggested, and it is quite important that smaller ranches often have more difficulty in getting to sell at ATVR. This is a bill that seeks to level this position. I agree with this view, and it has previously been observed in this discussion that the amount of alcohol sold in these small rocking houses but a very small percentage of the rest of the population is not going to have a major impact on the overall consumption of alcohol, which may be the most important thing to make these changes, and I agree with it. However, in order to make it more certain that this is the case, changes are made from the majority of the committees, which are, for example, part. the Minister shall set up a Regulation to set limits and the more part considers necessary in view of the rich public health views underlying on this matter that they are the same as found in Article 4. Regulation No. 630/2008, and it is a very good directive laid out on customs that are well - known to all Icelanders, to find out what you can do on the vacation. And this I think is a very reasonable approach because that's where you feed the main objectives of the bill. It's that these little people who have trouble getting into a small sale have a chance but they're not unlimited because it's not because it would work against this thing which is shown in the bill's report that it's not the point to interfere with that drinking policy with people and it's the role of ATSVR unequivocal. Then it has also been observed that it is also making the change not only to farmhouses but also to the matter not only of what type of alcohol is produced and what I am, I think, a very good change to you in the fact that my awareness is irreparable. And then I think it's the right course when this case has been approved. It will be carefully put in the stitches on how to succeed, and it is in the report in the Committee that this suggests that a surgeon's office performs public health evaluations on the effects. It takes time for it simply to be able to study some pattern of change in consumption. You see, I'm not at the place where I think there's any reason to cycle anything with these laws, and it's been suggested that there may not have been anything to do with these laws over the years. There's been a very small change, and this change is that I know it's good. It's in. It reaches a balance between the individual's freedom and public health issues, and it's really nice to be able to take part in some balance there, because that's what I think it's important, and that I'm saying then I think you can celebrate these smells of the matter and you'll be happy to vote for it. Here's what we're talking about. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Sigmar Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u142	Madam President. I agree with this case and I agree with what more people have said here that I hope this is the first nail in this coffin as the current alcohol law of Iceland if it is out of date. It has nothing to do with the modern world. It does not take into account the technology we live in today, and it is necessary to revise it from the foundation, this case, and the fact that it did, at least, come true. It's okay inside the General and Education Committee, and hopefully into the council after that. It gives you the hope that you can change all of this into the bigger movie. This legislation is out - of - date, for example, when it comes to advertising, where the Icelandic and foreign media do not have the same attitude toward the same consumers. We can talk about the stores and the circus that's been around them and how easy it is to go past current legislation without breaking it with exactly the same conclusion as in that context, I'd like to mention that I'm sorry that it's a matter of Congress. paritaprevir The members of Sverrisdóttir's daughter have not been able to succeed in this council. This case would also have been a great deal of improvement, I think. This is about the fact that small sales at a place of production at alcohol can have a positive effect on employment, tourism, production and settlement, pointing out that it may be difficult for little producers to get their products into the state, the monopolis company, so people are using all kinds of reasons to find some agreement in this matter. I feel, however, that it's just super-importantly about freedom. I think it's about reason. I think it's about that older people should be able to figure out something for themselves and if they're going to achieve some goals that serve some other purpose, e.g. some public health goals, they do so in a way that is different from knowing people and building every kind of fence and wall all over a community that actually breaks down a certain covenant for them. There should be someone so visible. Of course, the purpose of the rules and so is the fact that it is easy to go through all of this. They don't serve their purpose, and they don't give it back and they don't reach the required goal, and I'm all for the fact that it works, and they're putting in the maximum amount of money sold in these places. Where will we set the limit? They found this landing. I can totally support it. However, there is solid evidence that the line should be elsewhere. But this is only fine in her name of reconciliation, and hopefully the experience of this will show us that we need to revise the alcohol law as a whole. But I've been talking about it for a long time, and I think it's totally lonely that we need to change the course in general in these matters. Government and government dedication are not a guarantee of improved human health, they don't think it's entirely unreasonable to claim it, and I think everything in Icelandic society points to the opposite, and we can see it in neighboring countries as well. In various ways in Europe and the world, the drinking of alcohol in those countries is running around, and there is no context in it because of a number of other factors that, of course, play a lot in the public health policy but only access to alcohol and I would like to agree with it as well. A senator said, "Di Málr Kristófersson mentioned earlier, which is, of course, what we need to keep in mind. If we go back a few decades and look at the Icelandic environment the way it was, we're drinking Iceland's culture. It sucked. There was a lot of drinking at once, and standing in a town was quite young. Since drinking and drinking practices in the country were such that foreign media sometimes made a trip here to discuss the situation, there were many fewer alcohol - sold places than there are now. They could have been open for a shorter period of time than they now are. They were not to be open on Saturday at this time. Wine restaurants were much weaker in opening, but now it's just so I mention it one day, is open on Saturdays that weren't then. They're sending wine home that wasn't. Then you can get in, hit here almost 24 hours a day or at least From morning to night, having a beer. It couldn't be done then. But the pattern of drinking and culture was worse then than it is now when access is much better and everything else is better. I think it tells quite a great story, and if men ever since and I'm not making little public health decisions, I take it under the public health policy, that I want children and young men to be kept free of alcohol, and of course I want us to be involved with all this product with caution and respect. But if that's the way it is, there's a direct link between these public health plans and the bioavailability, then I don't think that the monologue we're going to escape that argument is simply the easiest thing to do to ban alcohol. It must then be possible to take that step in the spirit of improved human health, but surely no one will think of going there. Then. At the same time, a person can scratch his head over the amazing fact that the police were extending an ever - increasing amount of illicit drugs, which are forbidden by a fairy tale, to the extent that the ban alone or such massive bioavailability barriers. They don't necessarily understand what we're trying to achieve. Of course, we must always wonder about the prophylaxis and wisely reaching out to people when we are trying to influence their consumption and prevention and education is the absolute key to this, and that is the way we were going to improve this bad drink, a culture that was several decades ago, that I was describing at the same time as we were making the possible access to this consumer product. The vast majority of people, as we noted earlier, who make good use of this product, use it wisely, and do not drink to their detriment or to excess. Of course, we need to keep in mind that it is a certain percentage of the people in the country who have a disease called alcoholism, and this is a key factor. It's a disease. The brain in these people is different from the brain of other people. I always find that this group of patients, these groups, is used as some sort of rationale for access purposes. I know this disease well myself, and I can assure people that a sick alcoholic who is in need of substance or alcoholic drinks, he would crawl between parts of the country for some access to opening time or in any of the Promills up to and down here, and there he would not change anything about the progress of this disease. I think it's totally possible to beat it off the board. It is health problems to have this disease. We're supposed to tackle it as a health problem. We should not use alcohol to try to influence this disease because it is simply not possible. We should use our power of reason, and we should allow those who know their way of life to enjoy a measure of freedom in these matters, those who are weak to drink and who are alcoholics. They need to use other means of strength. You can't keep them away from your illness with some sort of access block, like it's too widespread in our society. It's just that way. And now, of course, there's a lot of conservativeity in our society and we've been, and we just see it here in a lot of matters, and, of course, it's a measure of conservativeness, and sometimes important, and it's often understandable, and I understand some of the ingredients of conservativeity when it comes to these matters. It is very easy to fear changes, and it is very easy to put in your head this same symbol of bioavailability and increase in consumption. But it's not that simple, as I just mentioned earlier. Therefore, I say: Let's agree with this matter, hope that other parts of the alcohol law will also be changed, that we will be involved in this product as consumers, which most Icelanders use to harmlessly, and we will build fences against children and young people in the right places, and we will treat people with respect who have disease, and we will know how to use their feet when it comes to alcohol and otherwise through health systems, and through prevention, and by increasing their decapitations at the end of these trust people. It's fine, and I'm on top of it. To answer that question, what do you think? 5th a.m. Reykv.. S......
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u143	Madam President. Finally, at last, let me say. The case may not be a big deal, but it is still the first set-up we had laid against the U.S. Penalition for the State's monopoly on a small sale with alcohol, the first slot, and therefore it should be celebrated. This is the first step toward greater freedom, greater freedom today, slightly more flexibility, and even though the matter of freedom or freedom may be a factor in this matter, the relative importance of the matter may not be immense. We in the Independence Party have been talking about increased freedom on alcohol consumption for so many years and decades that we have become very high here, but we have never been allowed to stand here in this chamber at the end of the council with a committee party more in our hands, a transverse solidity so that we might get better in our throats over the next few weeks, at least to the extent that freedom I embrace. But this matter is far more than just that, and, of course, the underlying issue has long been worked by the Independence Party. It was first brought forth by the then minister of Justice, Áslajar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, and now again by the minister of justice of Jón Gunnarsson's son, and with good things to do when it was submitted and so greatly improved by the council. It's so fun to experience the time when the World of Congress itself adopts its own freedom to write, to change the case from just about beer to beer, a rocking house to all the Icelandic manufacturers who are producing their own controlled places to celebrate, and will make a huge difference to these parties. So the law is not just freedom, though I am preoccupied with it, as has been arranged, including in my very fine virgin Björgvin with my fellow Jóhannesson, there are many more positive influences about travel, employment, production, and settlement, especially with these little companies that the bill demands to be well-supervised, who are overly difficult to compete with the state - driven wine, trade. It's just like that, and it has to be kept in mind, so this is a very important tourist service. This is an important manufacturing issue for these people. For their basis and, as a result, I would like to mention that in this case, the opening time at the time of the EtVR opening should be possibly set aside. I may have wanted to mention here that I would have to say that there would be a better examination. They're taking further steps on this case because I think, for example, that, you know... Perhaps the smaller participants in a country that often serves as a group of tourists in the evening might be a factor if I think that they may be able to use this authority to offer them something to take away a bottle or two after that presentation, so I understand that this is one of the points that will be further developed into Regulation, so that I can mention here that I hope that the law's objective of how it is primarily done and how it is and how it really works might be, in fact, may be allowed to allow such a little flexibility, without having much anxiety about how things go down here. I may not have this much further. I just agree with most of the things that have happened here by those who support the case if not just all of it. I may have just wanted to take this opportunity to say that in this council winter, there were two alcoholic languages called for discussion. One of them was a case I presented for a liquor network that, unfortunately, failed to enter these contracts. But I'd like to say here that it's absolutely so that it's absolutely crystal clear that this case has come here to this place, I think it's very helpful. This is great news, but then we have to continue taking the next steps, the situation of alcohol in Iceland, the arrangement. We have to get a better hold of it, so it's just the project. But, you know, it's a great thing. The first question is what to begin with. 6th. That's the north side. "Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u144	Madam President. I was not consistent if I came up with this matter even if it was only to celebrate it and give it a round of applause. But I know it's not appropriate in this room. I just want to vote on this matter, and we've talked about it here, and it's going to be discussed here in this room what this positive effect is. It's these expanding industry, tourism, the urban basis, all of this positive. But it's freedom. It's this little step how big it really is for us freedom, the buttoning people. There were two things that I wanted to come on, and then there was a man about the prevention, and there's a lot of talk about public health in the Commission, and I understand that, and that's usually the way we always do them, we're going to discuss the drinking issues and we're going to talk about prevention and instruction, the guards, the most successful results we've had in the consumption of young people on alcohol, how little she was. Then I have to say, I don't think it's likely that the young people will be going to a large part of the Icelandic factory in the country. It's just throwing it out here. It will still be forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages to people under 20 years of age, not to children because they are 18 years old. However, it is also interesting in the opinion that at the time of opening the ATVR it should be similar to the opening time in these rocking houses at the manufacturing site. However, there is a kind of surprising thought when sometimes the place is not open on weekends in the country, even between ten and two, so this is something that needs to be considered and how to make a real spectacle of these rocking houses. Then I also wanted to put a question mark on the maximum number of people made each year. Why not a million? Why no more? Why do we go further? Why block out one rollhouse of the 25th? I wish we had taken the step of keeping them inside, but this is a little step towards more freedom, I'm happy. I'm very excited to have to vote with this case. It will not only be an official employee who has to sell the beer to a man, who is very good and like a dog. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir said earlier. This is this pool of light in these cases. What if the eighth one succeeds? Only after a 100 - year monopoly can we say why. Thirteenth. We're out of Suðvest. "Gísli.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u145	Madam President. I'd like to thank the greater part of the World Health and Education Committee for taking the first step of bringing liquor here or the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u146	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a financial and business committee for a Committee on a bill to correct customs law, No. 88/2005. Tolls on products raised in Ukraine The main points of the bill are: The bill suggests that the products brought into the state's customs area and is fully uplifted in Ukraine fall down to May 31, 2023. The committee agrees to give a witness on the case and, by permission of the president, to address President, Ukraine at the General Assembly last May. It is obvious that the Russians'war against Ukraine is not merely an attempt to conquer the country and destroy life. It's an attack on freedom itself. That is why it is important for the world's free nations that Ukraine is not to be left alone, fighting off Russia. It is important that all nations work hard. I am grateful for the steps your people have already taken, especially by supporting commercial pressure against the Russians. I also thank you for the many support you have shown us, and promise you not to leave it at that. Quotation complete. The bill is important and symbolic support for Ukraine. The total loss of customs prices from Ukraine to Iceland was 550 million. K. in 2021. There was no import on agricultural products. We're not gonna give up. Again, I give a witness to the Ukraine president's speech, with permission of a president: it doesn't matter whether it's a small state or a big one. When we fight for freedom, everyone's contribution is important. In the above, the commission suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. To answer that question, what do you think? 8th Senator smokes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u147	The district of the South, Djid Már Kristófersson, president of the United States, is very pleased to have twice in a pita and to support the terms of liberation that have been achieved at the General Assembly here and here we are in the natural special obligation to support the Ukrainians in their difficult situation, perhaps most important in times of trial, which are putting our little weights on the scales to maintain the course of professional living in Ukraine. Businesses in a globalized world are extremely important, and Ukraine, like most countries in Iceland under the same conditions, is an open economy. They live in business dealings with other nations, as if we could not imagine experiencing tribulation in that area. Then, how important it is that we show our support for the Ukraine struggle by helping them in the most important way in which they will be able to support the commercial cycle in which they will face the difficult conditions they must face! It is important that this issue not be stopped or delayed because of some short - term interest in small groups of modern employment. Even if this indicates that Iceland's import of agrienvironment schemes from Ukraine was limited, I would like to stress that it is not a waste cause even if such products were transferred under this warrant and, in fact, more likely, because Ukraine is primarily an appropriate and exporter of agricultural products. We shouldn't pretend it's okay just because it doesn't work out. This would be okay even if it would interfere with something's interests because this is what we are supporting them. In their difficult struggle, there is no question about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u148	Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the solidarity of this case, and I'd like to thank the Honourable Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee for their fine history. The bill includes a temporary downturn of tolls from products brought to Iceland and, in Ukraine, uprooted. In 1st. The bill says that the decision on the origin of goods should follow the rules of a free trade deal between the European Free Trade Association and Ukraine, which went into effect on June 1, 2012. This contract suggests that products may need certain exceptions, but as we know them, the majority of them may be goods if not everyone who has been brought into Iceland from Ukraine goes through a neighboring country in Iceland. This is something that trades and services point out that the extent of the export to Iceland is usually so limited that no direct import is ever considered. The most common products are transferred e.g. The Netherlands, Britain, France, and the Baltic States may, in fact, be uncertain whether any real tax benefits will exist in this bill. This may be something that we are becoming more aware of in the committee. It's a bill that came in late and so on, so it's possible that there's a little misdirected when it comes to saying that Iceland is showing support to Ukraine in business. In fact, no direct analysis may have been made as to whether this is really some trade we are paying for by means of this particular procedure. But that does not change the importance of all such actions. We'll just have to move on, and at worst, it'll only be symbolic support at best if anything more. That's what came up with a review from the National Farmers of Iceland that I'm not going to have any words here. But, yes, I may simply reiterate that I am pleased with the work that has taken place with this bill now in this brief period of time and the efforts shown by the esteemed head of the Economic and Business Committee and I hope we can just continue to show such solidarity in matters like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u149	A respectable president. It was recommended for the great induction of this financial induction here yesterday if I do not forget. This is a huge induction, which is part of meeting the requirements that the Icelanders have accepted for the EEA Convention, and we already know that EFTA is the Court of Justice. He has begun a lawsuit against the Icelandic government because we have not created here a type of Icelandic in terms of the financial market, and I would like this to be agreed with the changes proposed by the bill. According to this, I want to thank the members of the Economic and Business Committee for their work on the bill and suggest that it be approved. No more have been silent and are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u150	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the Committee to Resident with a check-up proposal for changing the law on growth and insurance and housing, measures to help control the impact of inflation on mortgages and rents. The main point of the bill is that the bill assumes that the index is calculated and published in November 2021 applies to consumer insurance and mortgage loans from January 1 to December 31, 2022. We calculate prices in January 2023 by the change in index from October to November 2022, then in proportion to the change in index prices from October to November 2022 and then in proportion to the change in index between months. It is suggested that, on January 1 through December 31, 2022, no increase in housing level will be allowed to result in changes in the index price of consumption. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. The reviews explained that. The Committee's opinion is presented in this article: The Commission's review showed different opinions on the impact of index, cryopreservation of insurance mortgages, and insurance contracts. The majority of the data shows that the freezing of the index has a broad economic impact that can go contrary to the objective and purpose of the bill. However, the majority of the countries feel that it is best to continue to monitor the status of the facility and the status of the households in the country. The majority of the shares agree on the importance of continuing to reduce the value of insurance, but one of the costs is continuous. In the past, a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is put to reference the bill to the government, and it is commissioned to make an assessment of the cost and failure of the operation. Under the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee literature, as well as what we have here, why. The members of the assembly, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, and Árnadóttir Þóra Arannadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u151	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill which assumes that an index will allow freezing of consumer insurance loans if we put it that way, just for simple and real estate loans and on rent contracts now, of course, we're being treated by the Ministry of finance. The Ministry of Economics took a very decisive stand on this bill and on the methodology proposed in it. I think there may be some people's opinion that in this bill it would include what to say that a retrospective decline of property rights and that it could simply produce a wealth of damage to the state, and I notice that I notice that it was promised to the Committee meeting. That's what this was done, and then the carrier of this proposal is not part of the off-limit of the bill's off-limits. But I just wanted to ask the executive of this proposal and the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee why the majority of the Committee feels so important to refer this matter to the government? What do the majority of the Committee want the government to do with this bill? A greater proportion of the committee believe that this is a suitable methodology or approach provided in this bill should be some kind of guide for the work of the next weeks and months when it comes to defending the low income and the debt of a home and the tenants to the impact of inflation will respond. 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u152	Yeah. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for his answer. I would like to state that the current government has placed emphasis on taking progressive steps in decommissioning insurance on loans. You can even see it. in support of the government's commitment to the biography agreement and to the labour market bodies so that, in the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, they are entitled to the target of the bill. But the rest, I must say, since it's our right to do so, we feel that it is normal to refer to the government, including the government. based on the time mark specified in the bill and at this point in order to counteract the objective of this bill. The answer to the second one will give you what? 11th
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u153	Reykjavík Precinct North, Jóhann, Páll Jóhannsson A respectable president. I've had since I've been watching politics as the Independence Party, which, in turn, is equal to property and property in a very decisive way. So it surprises me a little bit about this approach to the rest of the thing. Yeah, yeah, it's the bills, of course, agreed, all kinds of goals, but it's usually that the bills that may be the law in the end and that the government is assigned to work that they also have some kind of resistance to methodology such as this, at least in gross fucks. Here's some suggestions that, well, these are very drastic suggestions. I'm not sure I'd trust myself to support such proposals at the Hall unless very much analyzing the recent process, and I think the legal argument against this route is pretty bulletproof. Now I can't remember what I was going to ask in a second if the government has just eyes on the insurance policy or reduced its implications. Why? Why, then, should this bill also begin working specifically? Why the emphasis? Would it not have been closer to the committee to provide a collective synopsis around here, perhaps in some general sense as to how to deal with the situation? Or the Independence Party is just a little on this same line as the people's party when it comes to the insurance policy, and it answers to its second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u154	Hv. 1st. South, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I think it may be late to say that the Party and the Independence Party may have a perfectly cohesive approach, but I believe that there may be some co-indicators in all categories, but according to this, a greater proportion of the Committee doesn't consider it wise to enforce the indicator number specified in the bill that was recently received when the bill was submitted and is not the same today. This makes it possible that the law could become out - of - date very quickly and possibly harm the individuals the bill is designed to be reimburse so that the time goal is so good that it can be so archaic if it can be said and I agree with what has been presented, that the steps that people feel are entitled to take about decommissioned prices need to take into consideration the matter so well that the law will last a time tooth and not be directed on temporary economic conditions, especially as it is attributed to the Korean virus epidemic, according to the report by the bill. I would also like to address the fact that the Independence Party is always a protection for the individual's freedoms and rights of possession, please. Senator. It is not unlikely that a law found in the bill would be contrary to a constitution in which individuals' rights and rights of sale and property are being restricted, and the Committee has to be taken very carefully to such ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u155	A respectable president. I hereby recommend my share of the bill to change the growth and insurance and rent laws, measures to help control the impact of inflation and mortgages, and mortgages. My importers are on the bill of Eyjólfur Ármannsson, Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The bill was submitted in December, which is being recommended in March, and is now being discussed by the Economic and Business Committee. A committee study says: As shown in a report on the bill, a pandemic crown of ears has allowed significant economic contractions and increasing inflation and has since added the effect of the invasion of the Russian Army in Ukraine. Despite the possibility of reimbursement with uncertain loans, many cannot change their commitments in this way because of burdensome conditions or expenses. Those who pay off insurance loans or rent are vulnerable. In this situation, then, it is considered necessary to protect the country's home from the harshest effects of inflation. The minority agrees with this point and points out that since the bill was submitted, the APC has increased from 4.8% to 7.6%, or about 58.3%, and has not been measured higher since April 2010 or more than 12 years ago. According to the surveyor's estimates, inferred inflation will remain unchanged or even go up until the end of the year, and there is strong uncertainty as to when inflation may be resolved or how quickly the need for action to correct the effects of this inflation has only increased and will continue to continue as long as this continues. A smaller portion of it feels that it is important to learn the lesson from the 2008 failure and the economic disaster resulting from the failure of such a situation by comparable actions proposed in the bill, the consequences could be terrible. As the report concludes, we feel the need to protect homes from the harshest effects of inflation. In our view, temporary freezing is the most serious influence on inflation, at least what can be done for homes. No. This is an effort to help the worst in a quick, simple, and efficient way since the bill was composed in the last autumn, with the intention of coping with the problem that faced them in the past and that was predicted to get worse has been what I feared most. The inflation is on its way. The situation will get worse in the weeks and months to come. The impact of Kuwait and the domestic status would have been poor enough, but when there is a conflict in Europe, in addition to that, there is a lack of good and normal increase in in inflation. The bill suggested that we be lawed on growth and insurance, No. 38/2001, No. 36/1994 is added temporarily to new provisions involving the value of consumer commitments due to rent rent does not change for one year from the time the bill takes effect. Thus, there is no retrospectively active increase or retrospective change after the period has been reassigned to the index value of consumer prices and securities of commitments, although to the calculation will only be based on the change in the index of consumer prices from the next month. So there is no debt of museums, a collection of debts, with this simple operation that does not cost a single cent of government, can be saved from the greatest of difficulties and even the loss of a home. It must be worth something when we at the International Habitat Association were forced to defend our homes. At Kuwait's beginning, both presidents and secretary of finance stated that if the situation would get worse, it would be taken care of and protected. The situation has truly gotten worse, and now is the time for action. The tenant market has seen people in its worst position, and rent has increased dramatically in recent months and even in recent days. The head of VR took an example from the real world when presenting it to an economic and business committee last week. He told of a 70 - year - old woman he had been in touch with. She was renewing her contract, and rent rose from 198,000 dollars. of 230,000. This is a contract for a year, but if this woman signed a long-term contract, which I understand will certainly be available, she has to scrotum out $250,000. every month. She doesn't have that money. I don't know how this is going to end up being rescued by her text this time, but maybe not and what? Where does this woman go for the night of her life if she can't handle it? She manages to split it now, perhaps by denying herself some food for a week as well as other things that give a little interest in life. What happens next? This woman rents with one of her big tenants. Some would like to argue that it is a free agreement that must not be taken in defense. Can this be called free contracts? What's the freedom of this woman? What are the choices? It is one of thousands in a tenet that faces an impossible choice at this time. Last night, a deputy member of the Strategies Swanberg delivered his virgin speech. It said, "From the end of the year, my rent has increased by 10%, but I guess it doesn't seem very much and maybe it's just quite escaped. Still, this is a substantial sum for me, for I am an invalid, and at the end of the month, I paid 62% of my rent - rent provisions. Then I paid 3.5% of my income to the life - threatening purchases, which are 65.5% rent - and I will pay for heat, electricity, and phone, and no food purchases should be forgotten. Quotation complete. Svanberg is an invalid, and he trusts in the pension of social security, the fairness of the government. There are thousands of people in the same situation that he has to get some strings on this situation, freezing the insurance on the flat rent will be very important and at least Trying to develop a bond with what can hardly be described as anything other than the greed of the big tenants. Let's get back to the prices of the loans there. The worst effects come out later than in our renting agreements. Hv. Councilmen can make sure that inflation will strike the ownership of tens of thousands of families and will later take action. The more tragic events will be. The effects on the financial burden of loans are immediately observed, but the rise of the head chair will result in higher pay loads over the entire loan period, resulting in loans that will be paid for the inflation rate of the year every month of the year. I'm going to give you a few numbers that tell their story about the insurance. It should be noted that these figures are based on the premise that inflation and growth remain unchanged. But well - meaning interest rates are loans to historically minimum, despite the rise of the National Bank, and they may actually raise later if the value is 30 million. K. a guarantee loan to 40 years with the first payments on January 1, 2017. Now it says five, now, five and a half years later, for less than 33.7 million. K. A loan has paid less than 4.9 million. K. growing by price and by 2.6 billion. K. paybacks on the loan, totaling 7.5 million. Yet, the posts have increased by 3.7 million or over 12% of the original loan level. The cost of 7.6% of inflation would during the loan period, except for up to 14 million. K. or more than 46% of the original loan level, but in recent years, real - estate prices have gone up a lot and looking to those who have recently purchased housing would be closer to 50 million. K. A loan. It turns out that the post office has risen by 3.3 billion. K. Even though the borrower paid 1.3 million. K. in reimbursement payments. The cost of credit time is up to 28 million. K. or 55.8% of the original loan level, just for this year's sake. This is only a law, protecting a yoke so huge cost increases can be prevented by accepting this bill. In fact, the high rates of insurmountable loans for consumers are a disgrace to land and nation, for no other civilized nation has ever thought of offering complex derivatives to consumers. In other countries, such financial gains are only available for professional investments. We have to cancel insurance loans to consumers as soon as possible, but I guess that won't be done in this storm. It's hard enough getting one year through. Now it is simply a matter of emergency assistance to the people who are on the lease or who are committed to securable loans. Our responsibility at the Council is immense. We are under obligation to have a vision, and even though it may be difficult at times to know what the future holds, what lies ahead for us now. The idea of my bill was to suggest a simple solution that would have the desired effect on the population at hand. I think this bill meets that requirement. I also hoped that this bill would end the cost of a government fund. None. The committee received reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, the Icelandic ten - minute organisations, the U.S.R., and the Environment Association and the guests from all these agencies came to the Committee for 20 minutes, so for 10 minutes I'm just going to add four minutes or two. Communicating the opinion of guests and the client was that the bill was very much needed and, in fact, the bill was needed. there was a view that it could provide a solution to the anticipated emergency and even to the establishment of a housing market. A review of the Corporate Community stated that the Court's work was to be carried out in the first century C.E. The 11th world goals of the United Nations should allow all to have adequate and safe housing at a suitable price. In addition, more than 30% of the poor paid more than 50% of their means of renting on the basis of a 2021 assessment of housing and the Competent Agency. While no comments were received on the subject of the bill, just before the case was resolved, representatives of the Ministry of finance came to a meeting of the Committee. It meant a completely different tone. The Ministry felt this as if it were no wonder, since the Ministry seems generally to have a better relationship with financial companies than with those with less than the reality of their hands. During the financial hearing, there was concern about filing for negotiations. To answer, such free contracts as, for example, have been introduced repeatedly by the State. After the 2008 collapse, but usually only with the financial interests of the system in mind. Now, however, there is a need to consider the interests of the households. More than that, it must be mentioned a mild chance to call open contracts free agreements. Yes, the borrower makes a decision to take a mortgage or a contract, but the contracting conditions of a roof or a family are not particularly strong. Somewhere, she needs to prepare the bank or the landlord, as appropriate, in a very different position. There is no agreement between parties in these contracts, as in the example mentioned earlier, about 70 of the woman clearly shows that she has no advantage in the situation. The Ministry of Economics held that it was questionable whether the bill would reach the most needed help. The fact is that the Ministry of finance should be well - aware of. In a tenet, they are those whose foot is in the community, and the bill would provide them considerably more financial security. In addition, most of the brothers in the field have been able to escape the price - secure loans, so those who are left behind are likely not to have particularly much money between their hands. Also, representatives of the Ministry of finance wanted to avoid, where the real estate assessment raised housingors a great deal of money. Hence, it is to say that no one pays anything with a higher value of real estate, no food, no necessities, or no loan. The Ministry of finance also mentioned that divorce is low in the banking system. The answer, then, is that not all people are looking for any means to pay their loans and divorce, but that everything is already burned to the ground. The Ministry of finance also claimed that the State could become damages due to agreement intervention but could not answer the financial issue of such a responsibility. Actually, I'd love to see the bank's claim on the state funds if the bill was accepted. How interesting it would be to see how much future economic conditions they expect to face because of the inflation of this one year! Somehow I don't think the banks would want to reveal that number. The time has come for homes to be protected by financial companies and rent companies to be able, homes are not. There is a crisis in many homes, and it will increase if we do so and if we put these two on the scales, banks and large tenants will be kept in high position to keep all the whales that this crisis is going well, or on the other hand, if Saveey's thousands of families from the disaster. Then it should not be necessary to ask if there is a higher weight. Fifteen thousand families lost their homes after their last collapse. These are other forms of harshness and other circumstances. Don't do anything, says in a memorable advertisement. I'd like to direct them to the government sector. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be referred to the government so that its terms cannot be elected here. I'd like to ask the government to take this case for a serious consideration of the domestic interests and to put the interests of the strong and financier banks and roommates aside at least That one time. I ask her to provide safe housing for the families of the country, not to be driven, so that in the months and years, thousands of families will pay for your indifference. There is no question about what is going on, and those of you sitting in the government sector now can, with prevention, prevent disasters later in the future. Ask yourselves, " Where do all these people go, losing their homes? ' Is it not better to stop the crawling before it falls and choke everything in its path? Or do we prefer to organize resources for the thousands of people who lose their homes with the cost of government funds? There is a paradox in referring this to the government or rather to a case that is impossible, as this is a case that will be established only by the Council's law. One thing can protect homes from inflation. The government can't change the law to freeze the effects of insurance unless it's called up by the General. I'd like to believe that the government takes this bill seriously and discuss it seriously with the needs and prospects of its households in mind rather than focusing normally on financial interests and then the General Assembly has been called together to complete the case at the Council for less reason than the crisis created in the homes of the country that are not looked for in time. I have stood in that situation by losing my home and finally losing my home. I ask the government for the longest word ever to spare thousands more of homes to pass through the panic that comes with it. I'm asking the government to save the homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u156	That's what Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson has. A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech and his contributions with this bill for the discussion on how best to handle the problem of earners and debt groups did not agree with the objective of the bill. I have some doubts about how this is necessarily the correct methodology and perhaps the observations of comments made at the Ministry Department meeting did not surprise me. I did not pass on a small proportion of the committees before that somehow, so that the majority of the committees feel that this bill is referred to by the government. Of course, everyone in this court knows that the government of the Independence Party, the Agency, and the left greens are not about to take action that would be anything like the ones suggested in this bill. Of course, we all know. That's why somehow I thought it was just a little silly when it got out of the Committee. It might just have been more honest to vote on this matter here in the conference hall with or against it rather than to end it in this way. But, of course, it'll be interesting to see, and I think we can just join together to follow through on the Committee that the government will do something about it. That would be informative, like what we're doing. paritaprevir Ásthildur Thorsdóttir's Lóa Þórsdóttir mentioned earlier, that it would be interesting to have such an example. cost analysis on the basis of the damage done by the Ministry of Economics to achieve there. Yes, perhaps just a general analysis of such interventions and perhaps some kind of review of examples of these types would be informative, of course. But I say again that if we had just this bill, I would have found it even more clean, if it had just come to a simple vote here at the Senate Hall, yes, no, or had been passed on to see if it would be legal or not. It would have been interesting to see groups around us today. This bill suggests that there are certain activities in the tenants and we in the United States have been severely critical of total apathy toward the tenants and I would like to use this opportunity here on this matter to point out what we have now written a little in this chamber for the past few months that it still remains to fulfill the promises given to the signing contracts of 2019 of the government, which had a commission from the government of the same categories that are now ruling the country. It gave a very clear promise of some kind of rent, such as the use of brakes. Of course, a brake needs to be developed for some predictable guidelines, and it needs to be really able to discern the best way to implement it. Of course, this bill suggests something like that, so it is beneficial to have this discussion in there. As I mentioned, there's nothing in the rent that was actually promised. In the biographies, however, the bill came in here about the change in rent laws that could now be seen, perhaps avoiding some of the more significant changes in rents that might include some sort of renting of a bill that is all about the registration of contracts and raising the rent in a housing database and the Agency. It's a bill that's going a total overdose of nothing like that, in fact, a big promise made in the government's will for biographies. Still, it would have been nice to take care of it during this council. That is what the labor movement has called for. Actually, I thought there had been some kind of convergence that this was one of the issues the government was also going to try to come through before the end of the council. But now I don't know that this matter has come out of a welfare committee, so even this watered bill that even doesn't get out of this council. Of course, it doesn't make the changes, the laws that include measures against the pay of theft. And they also promised a biographer. The agreements were signed so incredibly sad that if the government is going to kill these little chicken steps that may lead to further legal reform for people who are travelling to a lease market, because this bill, it is intended to take place in debtable households, and there I want to mention that both those who are insured and unworthy, and I miss the course particularly when the government presented their counterweight measures here a few weeks ago and they were accepted. In fact, it did not in any way address the status of a young person's income plague, e.g. the first buyers who may now be involved in the real estate market in just a very unusual situation when growth rate was down, and these people are now in total trouble because of the way inflation has developed and how the Navy has reacted to it with very sharp directional growth. So, yes, I'm not going to keep this for any further than I thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u157	When you get more of the General and Education Committee, what? 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of the greater part of the General and Education Committee for the Committee on Elements to Proclamation to Change the Laws of Possessions and Use of Realty. The bill includes adjustments in several legal columns, but there is no basis for all these changes here in this talk. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. A number of reviews related to the committee's study of the matter followed by the Commission's discussion. Wants more of the General and Education Committee specifically that the Committee discussed changes in cultural laws that are no. 80/2012, but the bill suggests that the terms of the government's premium from a land where peace - informed cultures are concerned. The majority of the reasons why the procedure of this arrangement should be carried out are based on objective opinions and the regulations of the 72th chapter. The constitution. Then the Committee on the Change in Earth, No. 81/2004. It can be complicated in the distribution of land property, especially about possessions regarding decision-making when everyone's approval is due. The majority believe that using the bill, an important step is being taken to better define and set a rule on the interaction between the cohesive owner of a land that falls below the range of ground law. The Committee also discussed changes in registration laws and real estate assessments, No. 6/2001. Clearly, the border may be unclear in many areas, so the greater portion is in order to correct it by means of the rules and registration of real estate. The Commission also discussed changes in the rights and rights of real estate, No. 19/1966. The majority of the initiatives were dealing with the conditions for a strong relationship with Iceland and believe that the course that has gone on the bill is more suitable in this regard and in part. Appreciating the importance of foreign investments The majority of them discussed ways of managing legislation under the authority of other EEA bodies and further on the investments of foreign people that will be involved in the review of change proposals, while most of the public educational committee contributes to changing the bill. The change in the granting of annulled release from a plagion fee is proposed. 1.mg. Section 8. the law on the extra pay of state funds in the event that a businessman no longer has been reported for a representative on behalf of a representative of 2k's office. The bill, for example, is unrealistic to collect terms in those cases. Then the change is proposed that the forbidden rights of partners do not apply to number 1. A bulldozer. Adding the change to the point of not resisting the excessive growth of cohesion, including for genetics. The committee specifically discussed C- team 11. The bill, but the purpose of the law, is to prevent laws within the EEA, which are under the control of non-EU bodies, from applying the regulations of the law, e.g. by investing in real estate in this country via a EEA Community and thus disregarding the rules of law No. 19/1966, for the possession of foreign stocks over property and real estate. For the Committee it was noted that with these changes there would be considerable potential for foreign administrations or other public sources outside the EEA to invest in countries such as the United States. they're headed for the bill. Because of this, the more part contributes to the change in the bill to the c-Jathers 11 g. The bill will be removed at this time. However, a greater part of it considers it important to have resources for the administration to limit foreign property in terms of public interest, including control of resources, national security, or universal rule. Presidents for such measures are the existence of a whole set of national investment legislation. Based on information, the Committee aims to contribute a bill of foreign investments to the autumn Summit. The majority of them consider it important to look to the proposed work of a foreign investor, especially regarding foreign agencies, prior to the review of Article 11. They'll be legalized. The majority believe that this bill needs to consider the instruments and the information that have been raised on the committee coverage, including The unwanted position that non-EU agents can be applied to the conditions of the law No. 19/1966 through the intermediate in the EEA area, including the investment of foreign agencies in 5 mg. 1st par. The law. In addition, the greater part stresses the continuing work of a general global improvement on the basis of the whole-scale policy being carried out in the Ministry of Presidency is referred to in other respects for a detailed discussion of these and other changes both material and legal in the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee. According to the above, a greater part of the global and educational committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. Under the opinion of a greater part of the universal and educational committee of publications, as well as here, h. Councilmen, Birgir Þórarinsson, Jóhann, Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, and Kári Gautason. A respectable president. I've reviewed the major changes we're making on this committee party. I'd like to state that the committee has been working hard and long on this case. After all, we received reviews and visitors and asked for more visitors at our meetings. There are a number of legal columns being adopted, and some of them may be this kind of legal application. To me, it is a big and very important thing that within not too long a little light law. The General review of foreign investments, we specifically refer to it in committees and it came up, which is especially when I'm dealing with this C- team, 11. g., which may have been the point of the most recent discussion with us and especially in the last record when we were told that this law could include abnormal restrictions on the investments of foreign people here in companies that own real estate. The decision was, as described in the bill, designed to prevent the spread of resources and land and other national security by foreign countries or foreign citizens. I think the world scene will show us that although it would have been necessary to look at foreign investments earlier, recent events indicate that it is very important, and we have actually been waiting for such laws for a long time and I know it was worked by it. The work that has taken place in the Ministry of Presidency during the last year is exemplary. It's seen a collective audience, and I have no doubt that this work will continue. But I do not doubt that we will continue to deal with the changes in these laws, and we expect us to see some provision, comparable to that of the law, to return to the bill. But then, as I was trying to say here in a legal way, it is important that if such a provision of the day becomes apparent, then there is also some sort of extradivable authority, and then we are looking for foreign people, foreign national funds, whatever, to be investing in innovations that own real estate, and hence if decided unchanged, it would have been blocked, because of course we don't want to see why we're on foreign investments. Of course, for such foreign investments, it is not a matter of the country's important infrastructure or resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u158	A respectable president. I'm going to move a piece of a committee party or something. paritaprevir The Eyjólf of the Ármannsson, in this case, is about the bill for the legislation on the alteration of various laws relating to property rights and use of real estate, complete, partnership, border and other aspects of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. If this bill is the law, it's a legal accident. The smaller part we start by referring to the signing of the case at the meeting of the General and Education Committee on April 26, 2022, which includes to discuss the change to an important law column that has a meeting schedule. The name of the bill is not most important, but it has decided on Article 11. which are involved in the investment of foreign people in an effort to prevent foreign choice by verifying the European Economic Areas buying land and property on land. The name of the bill is said to address the ownership and use of real estate, complete, partner, border, and so on. The name of the bill does not mention a single word at the international market, but this fundamental issue is expected to fall under the name of the bill. The bill guarantees that the State of Premarital Earth will change the cultural law, No. 80/2012. There are also changes in registration and real estate law, No. 6/2001, which is the basis for a tax system in the country, are being passed over a hundred years of age on the boundary from 1919 into a law on real - estate values, which are the basis for tax recovery in the country, as previously said. Other regulations require that land be placed on landowners. Clearly, on the bill's contract, the property rights of landowners would have been protected at 72rd. If not ignored, the Constitution would be there for the rest and good. The bill's discussion of its interactions and the rights of its constitution are incredibly few national boundaries from land mines until 1919. Since the land mines, the border law and the deification of the country have become one of the most important laws in the country. In the past, the law has passed since landowners take their land to one another under the law on registration and valuation of real estate. It's Iceland's Constitution with the head of real estate registration. So this is where a basic adjustment of the law code on the border is being made. During the first years of the restored General Assembly set up by the royal decrees of 1843, 1845 opened up a series of prayers from various parts of the province to the Council of the Council to give comparable awareness of Earth's cognitions. The case was first presented by Council 1847, if postponed in 1849, and the management should present the prime suspects, which were not handled in a period of 28 years or 1877 by a bill to legalize the country. There's been debates before the Council. At that time, Kosin was mentioned as writing a new bill, but the Constitution of 1840 1874 had granted the Allied Council a limited legal authority with the Roman Empire of the king, which he used several times. The case returned to the Council of 1879, but it did not end because of lack of time. In 1881, the Allied Council adopted the bill and adopted it, or a year after a decade of coverage by means of signs 1,800 and 8, as stated earlier. First, the laws required by landowners to make a sign of their reward, to keep them marked, and to make a list of national records for each land delivered to a businessman. The law allowed a five - year period to describe coronation. The delay was extended about two years with a change in law of 1887. It is evident that in 1882 the implementation of law was a strong step toward the survival of Iceland's journey to independence in 1918 for an independent nation and that the clear obligation of land ownership was important for agriculture and economics, ending the right of property the foundation of employment freedom and the driving force for enterprise and prosperity. The right to own a country is the principle of the country's protection of human rights and will remain forever. In view of this, it is incomprehensible that the 100 - year - old law is removed from its boundaries by enforcing a law on the law on real - estate assessment. These laws are the basis for taxation in the country and include the evaluation of real estate for that purpose, the legislation on the border, and more since 1990 and until the revision. But it's a special project and it's to be done with a new law on the border, not as part of the Reale Assessment Act. Landowners have separated their country from neighboring lands, not from governments, nor from taxes or other government interests. The 72nd paragraph guarantees the perennial rights. The constitution. The bill obligates all landowners to name three or more of them for their officers. Such obligation goes beyond the necessity and therefore violates the sanctity of property. The owner of the land can establish a partnership with his partner, a warrant that would be unnecessary for decisions that would not be considered normal or normal, but would not be considered unusual or major. 3 mg 7. If the bill becomes the law, the law will fail to replace the border and other laws since 1919. Instead, there is a chapter of real estate in the registration and real estate law, No. 6/2001. Iceland's national records are under the law of the administration of real estate. Landowners have set their land apart from the surrounding soil, not against the governments. There is no clear evidence between natural land and land that have left land in the land from land's land's mines and without a sign of duty, cremation. 1st par. track No. 41/1919. The special property law on land is important, and it is a great record of failure if it is entered into a section of the law on real estate assessment, which is the basis of the tax system. Despite a number of problems with the proposed bill, there are laws that contain repairs for the better. This includes c-dimers 11 g. And so, in my opinion, it is a great disappointment that there is the possibility of canceling the rule, but at the same time, the stress that the principle of bills that overturn centuries of legal tradition. Under this, it's a w-w-w-w-w-w. paritaprevir The Elder Stone of the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson to speak up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u159	A respectable president. I just wanted to come here for a moment to review that I support this bill and I'm pleased with the opinion of the General and Education Committee as a friend. paritaprevir Bordi Haraldsdóttir has been doing this. However, I would like to maintain it, as with the 1st discussed, that I believe it is important that I consider it more important to explain a further procedure in the government decision to use premarital rights, whether it is due to nature protection or to the memory protection thereafter by the approval of this bill. I'm here to celebrate in particular committee study that it is desirable for the State to adopt objective policy on this matter as a guarantee of equality and transparency in decision-making of premarital rights for general interest, protection or protection. In this way I can see that the project will continue to be reviewed by the government, and policy measures will clarify the views that will be considered in the use of the State's premium. It is of great importance that it is clear how the government's salary on a particular earth guarantees public interest. What work must be done after such purchases of maps or how the land or earth will be used, whether its organization needs to be changed, and whether the purchases are the plans for building up or even maintaining unchanged status of the country, in other words, whether or how to ensure access, use and structure in such areas, protection areas, or public protection areas? A respectable president. I reiterate my joy with these details being included and considered in a committee party. That's all there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u160	Mr. President. This is where we vote to improve the strength under the observation of the Fishing Room, which is very important to attend and to ensure that there is a reliable legal base for this important monitoring. This is a very important factor in ensuring safe and responsible association with marine resources. Once again, I want to thank the auction committee of my job board for a very good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u161	V.E.G. President. This matter of mental health careism and the above issue of health care care care services for the elderly are linked to the fact that this is a developed policy, a vision and aim laid the basis for working on the Council Action Programme, of course, of course, of utmost importance, and I appreciate the indications and emphasis that have been made and will be useful in the work plans ahead of which I will take complete thought of the changes proposed, including in this case, we have a mental health policy on the registration of information and on the basis of a requested report. It was very important to complete these matters and finish this council so that there can be a full follow-up of action plans, and for that I would like to thank the council, a respectable president, and a respectable welfare committee, a very helpful coverage and a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u162	They were asked to speak, and the president forgot. A respectable president. Yeah, I'm glad we're supposed to agree with this policy, but I'm afraid. A health minister to make a request to the highest level. A financial minister and a mental health - health programme are funded because otherwise the operation plan will be empty. Money must be followed with the suggestions being offered. That's all I want to say. Is this a good thing? Then there is the matter of votes and debates. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u163	A respectable president. This case is important. I'm on it. I'd like to remind you, though, of the state accountant's report on the pension cases, which, in fact, have an ass spanking, and which suggests that. In particular, the government has not been following previous policies, and now we are promoting policy to the next year, so I encourage the government to use their finger in the pulse of the ball to actually follow this along part of the fact that it becomes that we take mental health issues even more closely, according to the law that all members of Congress agreed on here at the Congress Hall. It's not been followed by any advice, and I want to encourage the highest. Governments, and especially health - care ministers, taking the matter, as I say, taking hold of it and putting it into practice to subsidize psychological services for everyone, will not least matter for young people and poor people, so this is a good step but will continue. Come on, let's go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u164	Mr. President. Of course, I welcome this approach and this plan, where I miss government policy in these matters, is that in any way, we're going to cut off the use of forced mental health practices. In my opinion, it's still a black spot on how we're dealing with these issues. We're supposed to be much longer, the knowledge to stay further, and I think it's time to make sure that it's our policy to stop just completely forced on mental health, not the threat.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u165	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and thank you for the quick payment of this proposal, which was certainly taken before the council one year ago, but then changed for a new government contract and other changes that have been made in the same spirit as the current based program that has been in force and that has been well accepted, well, is about equal access to services, that it is the service of the country, that there is equal opportunity to create work wherever we live and also to ensure that it is sustainable. That's the main objective of this community plan, these three under the many articles, 15 years of policy, five years of action plan, and I just want to thank the Senate for their quick response, and I know that after this plan, there are many people waiting to start working on it like the one who's about to finish their course. In the 1260 C.E. member body of the Council Report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u166	A respectable president. What a pleasure it is for me as a new member of Congress to witness the Alwardisla's work in this case! There was a contingency among the committees, the General and Education Committee that this bill was a legal reform for the vulnerable and thanks for all the members of the committee. Thank you very much for the chairman of the Committee. paritaprevir The faith of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for being set free when there were knots and legal factors and would particularly like to thank the workers, the Council of Action and the Independence Party, who worked quite hard when Icelandic government officials in government took unnecessary overbacks in my judgment, which was found to settle down and found a solution that everyone could accept. It's an excellent thing, and I encourage the Senate to agree with them on food.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u167	When a daughter, a respectable president, yes, this is quite a good thing, and this is a step forward. There seems to be some sort of my error in the system of trying to cling to a marriage that is characterized by violence and falsity. I'm not sure that it would be good for people to live in such situations, and I think we should now look at the entire legal environment and try to make sure that people can get out of such constants rather than the other, and that the system should not get in the way of such trials. Enough is enough. I'm on top of this. Of course, a case is considered honorable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u168	Let's pay, Mr. President, I'm just going to move on in a similar way and express pleasure in this matter. All too many of us know that a violent person uses his or her marriage as an ongoing form of violence, an alternative to a mate, uses all these laws that can be used. They're trying to set up hooks here. There is nothing simple that is reflected in the precise adjustments made by the committee on the bill to address this problem. But I'm not going to repeat this Oscar Prize speech, Sigmar Guðmundsson, why. Senator. Many people came to this point in order to reach this stage, and all of them are to be thanked. I'd also like to thank a council group for allowing me to slip by just one piece into this bill from which I submitted by about 9 C.E. par. You see, this bill is not about the violent relationship. It's about the reverse relationships where people can only be married and they just want to understand in the current law. Then you will either admit adultery or violence or you will be stuck for six months before getting legal divorce, and you can only get people to agree on it, a drug of love. But when she's dead, it's just over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u169	Madam President. This is a very positive case, which I support, but I was present with a discussion about it earlier today and warming to the members of the Independence Party, or I would expect this to be a somewhat larger change than I can read from the bill that most readily allows us to sell beer on closed bottles, despite not being the government's employees, given that the strength and Elín are not too high and that it is done in the public office. I hope freedom fighters will do better over the next 40 years to make changes in this environment than they have so far come up with food.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u170	A respectable president. There have been attempts to make changes in the alcohol habit quite often in this hall, and often there have been long and intense discussions here. A number of bills have also appeared and died on a committee. It's out of the committee. The steps may not be very large, but they are important justice, a step for those who produce alcoholic beverages. We're talking about little producers, both on ale but also on stronger drinks. In turn, there are certain common health issues that were held on the committee so that yes, it is a compromise, but this is a good matter. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson voter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u171	A respectable president. Earlier tonight, I gave a talk against this matter, but I agree that I do not completely agree on my view of such a short period of time but was giving a talk before it. paritaprevir A Ármann old Einarsson of Ármannsson, and he was his speech that I joined. But this isn't the first time in the years I've been at the council I had listened to is totally against. Everything gives and I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u172	My vote, Mr. President, is not going to make such declarations of change, but here are some steps taken to change alcohol and the case has made a very positive change in the committee. This is a requirement for setting a regulations with the limits required. I think it's very important, as well as a message from the Committee on Public Health and what to look at about opening times and other things, so I think this is a good compromise and thanks for the cooperation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u173	Mr. President. The thing that we now vote for is not complicated. It's about freedom. It's about trusting adult intelligence. It's about increasing the freedom of alcohol in a small way. It is common sense that people, adults, will not be harmed by the fact that they can buy a few beers and drinks into the countryside and that the public health of the nation is not compromised, although these modest doses may be paid by an employee who is not on the Icelandic payroll. It is then quite exceptionally conservative that there is no agreement among the conservative groups of the country's applications, of course, except through sliding and unauthorized evidence of localisation, tourism, and a good way to produce national production practices. I support this case and call for an overall review of an out - of - date Icelandic alcohol law. Hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u174	President. Despite words. paritaprevir I'm going to allow myself to stand here and say, at last, because while the case doesn't come a long way, this is the first Kristófersson of all the first gap we'd ever legalize here against the U.S. Department's exception to the EEA agreement on a monopoly on a small sale of alcohol, and only that window is quite remarkable. Hopefully, if we are going to take more steps for the next few years, we'll be taking along. I'm going to say that I think for this reason we should decide that June 15th, or even 16th, after an incident, will be celebrated as we have held up and beer the day since March 1st, 1988, and call a rocking house the day unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u175	Supported yes, small things, some say, but many also say it's important to take the elephant in a few pieces, and here we are doing it. The alcohol law has not been changed for as long as I've lived. It was before I was born. When this was changed, the law of beer was changed, and here is a small step that has come twice to the council now, and it is a joy that the council borrowed from handling this matter. Of course, this also includes great innovations in Icelandic production in many parts of the country, and it is a pleasure to hear how many members of the Parliament and members of a number of groups support this freedom issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u176	Yes, Mr. Honorable President, I strongly support this case. It was said to be a special pool, and I agree with it. But exactly this adjustment proposal is shrinking, not closing, but reducing the gap. However, it is trying to open up these tiny gaps that the committee sends them away, that these sources are to be forced, that ministers, in the light of public health authority, should be given the authority to narrow the purchase of those who want to buy directly from the small ones who are producing. I object because I simply believe that those who are buying them don't have to have legal authority from a minister. They're just supposed to get what they want. There's no need for a toll, in terms of these places. We should simply allow those who enjoy going to these manufacturers to buy what they need. A minister does not have to limit that freedom and reduce these gaps we are choosing here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u177	The voice of this committee. A respectable president. I support this change, except that I would, because I'm growing out. People selling 100,000 gallons of alcohol on calendar fountains are being allowed to sell their gs as well as clouds and other things that people want to buy natural Icelandic product. But I would have liked to see here that this was all about the whole mess, all the people selling and getting permission to sell production at a place of manufacture for all those with 500,000 litres and less authority to sell beer on a sledgehammer or whatever it is being made in these places, not to place any restrictions, but to have these things as free as possible. Still, this is a step in the right direction. But I would have so much liked to see more freedom in this machine that this opportunity we now have here at the council, as it were, during the final half-mile of the council of this council. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u178	His act. A respectable president. I'm a member of the United States Parliament, and I support my mind. On the other hand, this is the case with this small change, simply because this change was not discussed in the committee. It's being extended that way, although here, yes, there may be many who support it, and many people think it's totally great. Then there is a fundamental change from what was started. It's allowing sale of beer in a brewery that's now allowing sales of much stronger drinks at the manufacturing site and it's like that, it's just so done in the final meters. It's only because we're yellow. This wasn't covered enough votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u179	Yes, a respectable president, here we are voted to put down a committee that was set up in 2020 to check the benefits and shortcomings of moving alcohol buyrs to 18 years. In other words, it is taking place on this committee, and I would have chosen to have had some conclusion on this subject and that the council could then take a stand here at this Hall on which way we should go, whether it should be reduced or maintained at 20 years of drinking, and I feel sorry that this work is not done. I'd rather encourage a minister to take the initiative to weigh the pros and cons of moving his drinking age down to 18 years and it would be good if he were to go professionally over the fact that I'm sorry that the committee should and hence the government is suggesting that he should abandon this of course and normal opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u180	A respectable president. The Economic and Business Committee agreed on the payment of this important and symbolic support for Ukraine. All the interests that are kept in opposition to such support are at best inappropriate and can be viewed only in the context of the sacrifices offered by the Ukrainian people and continue to for our benefit in our world. This war in Europe and the contemporaneous action has indeed brought the nation together but also exposed how some of the EU's leading states have tried to undermine their contribution and sacrifices. I am proud of the Conspiracy opinion that Iceland should not succumb to its responsibilities and that it would be a happy vote on this matter. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u181	Yes, Mr. Honorable President, I strongly want to agree with the Economic and Business Committee that we are expected to resolve this matter. This is important to send a clear symbolic message, although this matter in itself is not really of any effect, and it is likely that in these matters, we will take a firm stand for the people in Ukraine, who suffer a terrible blow from the oppression of the Russians, end up with the atrocities of the Russians. That's one way to do that, and that's why I'm sticking up for this matter and saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u182	A respectable president. To discuss this case earlier today, it must be forgiven that the head of the Economic and Business Committee just fell out and I brought it up here but forgot to recommend a new proposal that I'm doing here and now. I recommend a change to the bill to legalize the law of financial companies and other laws, loan agencies and stock markets. The adjustment is minor and legal. It is designed to clarify the subject of the bill and does not require any specific consideration. I suggest the adjustment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u183	A respectable president. If we here vote on temporary cryo-conservation of rent-a- upon loans in the interest of a discussion on this matter here at the Senate hall earlier today, I would like to announce that with a change in the proposal of my committee party it is suggested that the temperature of the freezer is transferred from the last years until the following July 1. This would ensure that there is no feedback. To that end, I want to make the situation more serious, and I want to believe that the government takes this bill seriously and deals with it seriously with the needs and future vision of its households rather than as usual with financial interests and then calls together the General Assembly to finish the case. A general assembly has been called together with less reason than for the crisis in the homes of the country that are not looked for soon. I have stood in that situation by losing my home and finally losing my home. I ask the government for the longest words to spare thousands more of homes to pass through the panic that comes with it. I'm asking the government to save the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u184	Mr. Secretary, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings. 1.mg. 23rd par. The constitution. The proposal is as follows: The General concluded to agree that meetings will be postponed from June 15, 2022 or later, if necessary, until September 13, 2022. The motion is self-explanatory. At least I don't remember why. Congress says I intend to consult with the President of Iceland to re-establish a council when the results of the National Review of sales of the State in Iceland Bank have been submitted, but according to official reports, the report is scheduled at the end of the month. No more have made a sound, and now they have a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u185	A respectable president. Here we vote on an important welfare matter that is in full agreement at the General Assembly and in the community, with grieving leaves and payments related to it. Then we'll take a closer look at the children's families who suffer the tragedy and grief of losing a child, and actually this legal fixation is introduced to Iceland's top order in the world as to support families who lose their child. I'd also like to report that I intend to start work taking further steps on these issues and explore, including: There is one way or another, for grieving to allow those who face family members whose parent falls away. I hope we can do it fast and hard, and I'd like to cooperate with the council on that matter. Finally, I would like to thank a respected welfare committee and a senior speaker for finishing this matter fast and well. What a pleasure it is for the General to accept this matter! Greidd is a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u186	A respectable president. I recommend here for the 571 hearing change of bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138, 2011 or uniting elections. The proposal is technical and is intended only for correction, and I suggest it be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u187	A respectable president. I wanted to start by thanking the council very much for the good work done in the payment of this bill. This bill means that in Iceland's filmmaking it's become competitive again if we're comparing ourselves with other countries, and the government is trying to increase the number of jobs in the creative branches and that this huge operation is on the road, and I'd like to thank a professional committee that failed quickly and safely with the bill, and I hear that this is going to be one of those most favorite committees and I'm also going to say that this is a committee, has been very successful, but I'm having a very difficult time to make it between committees but thanks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u188	President. We can be proud of the development of the film industry in Iceland. The recycling system has gone progressively over the past few years, and the system generally likes such a competitive way of supporting the proportion of simplicity and dependability. With this bill, a minister wants to do even better and tries to get a much larger assignment here than has ever been here. It's worthy and very exciting. The entire committee and the Ministry had very good cooperation in such cases, living in several things that I believe have made good matters even better, perhaps especially that an analysis of its effect is made. So when we take the next steps to help with these support around them, we'll make it even more secure for films, Iceland crash. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u189	A respectable president. I just want to come up here and say I'm really happy with this bill and this step that's being taken. This is a very important step, and I would like to commend both the government and the committee for careful reviewing the procedure and highlighting certain factors that certainly need to be considered. To strengthen the support of these important professions that film the art, they need to consider certain factors. The film industry is such that I would like to give much support and commendation to those involved and look forward to seeing how the follow-up and development will be done in this matter, and of course it will be interesting to take care of. how this matter will be financed and must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u190	An article for his vote. A respectable president. I just want to celebrate the vote here. This is a very important case regarding the level of wrongdoing. This case was also presented in the last council of the former Supreme Court. The minister of justice, but I did not succeed, so I am very grateful. Ministers of justice have arranged the case, and I am also very grateful to the committee for overcoming the issue, even though it was only a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u191	Even if you're saying something about a vote, Mr. President. This bill follows the law that we agreed on here at council in 2020, designed to counteract the burden of possession on land on too few hands and have already done so. However, this bill we're paying here is building a major land management system and gaining an increased view of land, the resources of land. I'd like to thank the Honourable General and Education Committee for extraordinary cooperation and assure the members of the Commission for the opinion they should have over the matter or for the next fall, the Council will receive another bill of the same injury to the international investments of important infrastructure and, hopefully, when all of this is over, we will be given a much better perspective over this vastly important category of issues. But I appreciate the cooperation of the Commission on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u192	A respectable president. I was very happy to see the great spirit in this matter here at a vote in the second discussion, but when we work fast, we sometimes miss out. So it is in terms of growth that in the original bill from the Minister, it was suggested that a draft of values occurred on January 1, 1923, and I believe that many out there were celebrating that this case was finally reaching through the council, perhaps thinking that the tourists would benefit greatly. So I suggest that instead of January 1, 2023, it will be on July 1, 2022, which is mainly in view of the fact that we are in a short time in travel, and we are dealing with tourism and agriculture, and I think this is important, and I think the Ministry is going to have to do a good job, preparing what needs to be prepared for that time. I propose this adjustment proposal in my own name because he could not be held on the committee. But I've talked to all the members of the committee who are here in the area, and I believe they're all agreed to this change proposal. V.E.G. Minister of Justice, Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u193	A respectable president. It is sometimes said that the drop can hollow the stone. I think it's particularly relevant in this case that I've been here since 2007 and I think I've been a cosmian on all the alcohol, the initials that have been observed, I think, at every council, mainly from us independents, there are some who have taken a photocopy of them, and soon as well. But here is a turning point in these matters, and I'd like to welcome the extent to which much harmony is involved in these changes during the council. Of course, this makes it clear that it is time to reexamine the laws we are living in in these matters. It cannot resist the passing of time and the changes that have occurred in our society, and around us, demands on the council to accept the responsibility to introduce changes in the rhythm of the new era. I would like to thank the Committee for its well - being in this matter. I especially welcome the changes the committee has been making and the proposal as far as it appears to be the same on the committee as it is. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir puts out here. It is up to us to put it past the Commission's will to carry out the council. This is how I rejoice that the value will be over the summer, and I'm sure it makes a great deal of demands on a certain preparatory work needs to take place in these matters, but we shoulder that responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u194	A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the Committee on Parliamentity, a conclusion on the timeliness of a simple rule plan. The proposal suggests that the prime minister arranges a time - appointed program for a simple rule of action, and it will be presented to the General Assembly at the Council of May 2022. If the proposal should be referred to the Commission's state report on official monitoring guidelines on a simple current protocol from September 2014, and the majority of them agree with it. Congress on the need for a simple rule. However, the possibility that a prime minister would not be able to perform the point of a resolution within the time of the proposal, the majority do not consider that such measures are desirable and planned based on the status report made less than eight years ago. Many things have changed within the Icelandic government and have to take such measures to base on the latest data and information available. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the proposal will be referred to the government and that it is commissioned to evaluate the need for simplicity of regulations. Under the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee literature, as well as what we have here, why. Councilmen, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Hrönn Hursteinsdótttir, Hafön Hafsteinsdóttir, and Orri Páll the son of Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u195	Hv. A senator, a respectable president. I think most people, or hopefully most people in this council hall will agree with the basic feature of the Central Party's proposal for a simple rule. Now this proposal is being made, an old-fashioned lead has been negotiated and all the evidence points to the government, and I'd like to ask why. paritaprevir The Independence Party does not necessarily mean that this proposal will be referred to by the government, that it will be taken seriously, not only when pushed into a drawer, but that it will actually have the great will I know of, on the part of the Independence Party that is necessary. It's a simple rule for people for their companies in the country, for the administration. So I want to ask myself: Is it really this: Is it not certain that the Independence Party will make sure that the very essence of this proposal remains alive?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. I think it's safe to say that. Even though I've been short and I don't know this allegation, which is always being referred to, it's now on my own. The reason I got involved in politics is one of my main goals here, so I'll at least do not leave mine behind in this suggestion. It points to the fact that in recent years it seems that the priorities of the government and the government were reduced to simplify regulations, but the actions of the government, both of this and of the past, clearly show that there has been much emphasis on the fact that a simple rule has not yet been done in this government's time. We are already in the process of working together in a way that allows us to analyze and continue to make simple rules and also found in a professional institution for the purpose to be worked out. A budget on simple regulations is made clear in a financial program. It's just a few examples. In addition, there are examples from the last term, including those in the first century C.E. I've been asked to remind me of another 1000, a decomposition of regulations and regulations for simple regulations at the Department of Professional Railroads. So the short answer is, yes, 25,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u197	Company counterweight. Another time. Yes, a respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer and optimism and faith, and I just want to share it. Share that hope, at least by reason of it. A senator, however, that the very first act of this government, which is the same old government, was, in fact, the first step. A symbolic step was to increase the number of recruitments, the increase in the size of the stall, so I am not necessarily hopeful in terms of the first steps to provide not just an increase in the number of recruitments, but expenses in this terms up to $3 billion in growing chairs, perhaps the most expensive game in later years. But that's another story. I'm just gonna say what. A senator: I'm just saying, "Guð is good to know, and, of course, we'll be keeping an eye on this. " I know that the middle-class members will, too, but we're going to put a lot of emphasis on this, and so on. I'm hoping this will be followed, and I'm hoping that I'll see what it is. A member of a public speaker can just review the government's record to simplify a rule for people, businesses, homes, and jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. Again before the opposition, I hope that I will continue to hold on to this optimism, faith, and longer than fierce. A senator who seems to have lost some of that optimism and belief and will not start to gill. A senator for the enlargement of the stall or for the increase of hallmarks. There's no time for that. Nor do we have time to cross the EU, to be surprised, and it is not enough. A senator has not been able to shoot it into the answer if only the next. The next circle is so we just agree on it, we don't. A senator that we want a simple rule for the sake of employment and the public and that we have full confidence in the optimism that we will join together and follow through on this. The answers are complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u199	Mr. President. There is reason to thank a highly respected Economic and Business Committee and executive for the work on this matter and, indeed, the Economic and Business Committee of the past election period, the then president of that committee, Óli Kárason Kálaison who took care of it well but it is clearly very complex, the simple principle and therefore has had to measure for this matter repeatedly that since work started for serious in 2013 and 14 with a simple rule of order and taking the program has not been considered to be the case as true. Yet, much good work was accomplished in both areas to the point that it was published a special manual for government agencies on how to save and gather in business, as well as one plan for simple regulations and less booths. But as I say, Mr. President, this is not to be looked at, and as a result, it will be absolutely necessary and in the light of experience to observe the progress of the case, so the government will be referred to as proposed in the case of an authority. In fact, it was said that there were so many years since 2014. It is used as a reason not to use the work that had been done that was very great and good, and since then, of course, it has only been added to the project as mentioned in the proposal, and there is no reason to be constantly throwing a good job and to start over again, and it may be less in the context that the framework of a program we were accepting earlier today is just as old, at least in the foundation. Nevertheless, it is positive that the government does not simply contribute to its support. Hv. Councilmen, the taking off of the case, as has sometimes been done with good things. You will likely have to show a certain understanding that governments and especially this government, which began with a promise of universal expansion, find it difficult to accept suggestions that come from someone other than stewards and stewards. At the same time, however, it requires adherence to all the new law columns and to the new layers that are being added progressively and actually, like the driving process. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in here, has only been most opposed in the history of this government. Never before has there been an ever greater and ever greater legal refinement, and especially the Ministry of Presidency itself as, as I have mentioned in the second speech, has increased in the history of this government more than some decades before. However, I continue to hope that this government and these classes, which in the past taught themselves to a simpler system and, at some point, will wake up, and perhaps, this will help with it. Yet, at that point, I encourage the work that was done before, not simply going to start over again and take a lot of time on this subject to die in the system as often as times do. That was why we wanted to use the work we had already worked, and we added the proposal and suggested that the government be assigned to do this. Therefore, this proposal is that the case should be referred to the government, interesting because, in fact, we proposed that the government be assigned to carry out the project, knowing that if it did not occur in the way that the government could do this themselves, the government would be unlikely to accept it. To say it is a pleasure to know that the government would suggest that the case be referred to, hopefully, a friend of his own. But like a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier will not do anything to monitor the progress of the situation and see if this government and the administrative organisations are able to take a turn in this matter as it has done, is so many other matters and should be expanded and could be able to complicated the order of action and instead work to reduce and simplify it. I have at least a few minutes. I wish the government would do well with that, but I and other members of the council will be watching the progress of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u200	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson's Davíð over the discourse and the sharpening, and because he mentioned that there is no reason to throw a good job and start over again, it was just a reference to the fact that much has happened and has changed since 2020, as reflected in 2014, as noted. certain ones at the Department of Employment for 2020 1 and that has not been added only. So there's no need for a turn, but to tighten it, and I just wanted to say it with a bang. A senator on the issue that governments are not allowed to be viewed because governments are definitely not to be viewed, and we are all here at the council on a team with the executive authority and may be quick to commend. Councilmen Sigmundli Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who bera Þór Ólafsson for the review and the EEA Convention on the proposal, for the EEA Convention has, of course, been of great benefit and benefit to Iceland. This tendency to add to the implementation of the rules of so - called gold - coated vessels can be taken lightly by governments, and I just want to take it into my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u201	To a talk or two. Mr. President, I know the rush to complete this meeting, and it's just gonna be a little short and, in fact, more than an answer. I hope to the highest. The president forgives it for what it is. A senator brought a variety of fine dishes here, but then I courted that as much as we can about it is suggested, while men use past experiences and work that have been done, evolution will be taken into account. The recent development is true, and it is certainly true that the government has gone twice, three times, if I recall correctly, on a number of missions in reducing order. However, it has been focused mainly on regulations, in order to make up which was no longer in use and had no significance anymore. I think one of the former procurators of the Independence Party said that taking out the trash lay before human feet is important, but now it is important to view the principle in force and is respected, to make it more understandable and simpler. But saying so, I thank you so much for keeping my mind on the progress of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u202	Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I present the Committee's list of major parts of the General and Education Committee on the Parliamentary Directive for an eve of murder. In short, the greater part suggests that the synopsis proposal will be referred to the government. We do so on the grounds that it is a very interesting subject, really interesting case, well-beloved report, but thus it is a matter of growing that this case was submitted here late last March. That's what they said on June 13. The Honorable General and Education Committee arranged it for their meeting on June 14th. Then they suggested that the deputies of Pirata send them to report about one day. It's 24 hours and there were three reviews. This is a case that, yes, is indeed part of a universal and educational committee, but it is also a matter that would have been at home in a discussion by the Honourable State Department and the Honourable Environment and Transport Committee. It's a matter that really needs discussion in the community, in the board, and in many sources. So I, in view of the fact that I want to emphasize that we are doing the work well, and I've been giving a talk here today on other matters where I have stated that I could be more time and that we have worked very hard to get in on or settle matters in a short time. But it is absolutely hopeless to expect the General Assembly of Iceland and the Honourable General and Education Committee to handle as big a matter as it will be in a 24 hour period. It would be my opinion that there's a call for unprofessional work. But in view of the fact that what is going on here, of course, there is a very important debate and, in fact, a continuation of the discussion on climate matters in which Iceland has truly taken a lead in international cooperation, and as a result, the ideas presented in the Senate resolution proposals are very interesting. The members of the majority's committee list review only the legal columns that deal with these issues in some way. But we were fortunate enough to have the members of the State Department turn it on when the case was brought here in the Hall that this might be something to look at and put in a memo that is the only comment on the case. They point to the International Court of Justice as having jurisdiction on matters of extreme crime. It is a series of murders, crimes against humanitarianity, war crime, and crime against peace because of international conflict and an ongoing accident in Russia against Ukraine that put the courts under pressure, and an increasing number can be expected, but at the beginning of March 41 lands, including Russian alleged war crimes in Ukraine. Therefore, the Ministry has concluded that this proposal needs further inspection before Iceland suggests an expansion of the legal history of the Court so that it can reach new categories of fractures. It is noted that in order to establish a proposal for the international criminal justice of Iceland, preparation and consultation of international bodies would be required to work on such proposals, policy-making and decisions in the field of discussion in the state and State Department of the Council, taking into account that the above and what I have considered to be the case would be referred to by the government. Under this opinion, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " Councilmen, Birgir Þórarinsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Kári Gautason, and Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u203	A respectable president. A smaller part of the General and Education Committee rejoices that a proposal has come into existence for the Generals to admit that the U.S. In recent years, environmental rights have gained greater weight on both national and international levels. The recognition of a certain murder as a crime is logical and requires steps in the fight against the climate. A law code on murder would provide the world's inhabited earth with the necessary tools to draw people's power to the vast, long - lasting environmental damage. This has so far been difficult, since the impacts on ecosystems across the border and beyond the borders of each nation's territory can be maintained beyond the rule of countries such as Belgium. Vanuatu and Maldivian's cohesion have declared support for recognition, a crime as a crime of international law, and, in addition, the president of France, the secretary of the United Nations, the European Parliament, and a number of international environmental organizations. It is long ago that nature will receive the position of his own rights and rights and rights, both for the sake of the earth itself and for the sake of the future generations, and perhaps not least. The committee received a memo on the proposal from the Ministry of State where concern is being developed because the International Court of Justice at Hague already has many urgent issues. However, in view of my section of the Committee, it is not a reason to halt the progress of the proposal at the General Assembly in spite of this, and it would likely be replaced by the court itself and its members at that time. Of course, improvements to Rome's release would have to be done in international consultation, with which the subject is the subject of the proposal. If it were approved, the government will be assigned to do that work, which would thus have the opportunity to become a leading environmental force on a international scale. The minority supports plans to lead the environment and climate with the approval of this proposal, thus suggesting that the proposal be adopted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u204	Madam President. I would like to agree with what has been presented here that this is in many ways interesting, and the report is good and the mind that is behind quite nice. What I've had a little doubt about is, is this a term, a certain murder. I think it sounds really rough. There is a man linking murder, perhaps ja, the fifth commandment, as an example, you shall not murder. Then you ask yourself, " This commandment also concerns the environment of the seed. ' It's very possible. It is spoken of in the Old Testament, or man's relationship with nature, and he is created as the custodian of nature. But again, this certain murder, it's the Icelandic clock that Jón Hreggviðsson isn't sure when you're going to be killed and when men don't kill you, so I don't connect this concept directly with nature, but maybe he would have liked to see another concept, such as, for example. for example, certain injuries. But I wanted to promote these thoughts, and I know that a good mind which is behind me in some way does this term sting me a little, and you just throw a little off. Maybe it's part of this suggestion to just make people feel a little bit better, though perhaps they start thinking, " Wait, what? ' With those who associate with nature in a much disrespectful way than the President, these are these thoughts I'd like to express because I'd thought the concept a certain harm. It'll give you the opposite respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u205	Madam President. I have to say in very short terms because I was not easy with this term in Icelandic, first for a time in English and most languages that can take a part directly from someone like this together. It's called sweet. We know the words of DNA and sweet Tómas. This is all some word, so I said yes, so I've gone forward and done it again, but I'll admit it, but the only proper translation is this first murder and she's getting completely wrapped around it because we're talking about a slight decrease in possible ways, so that the living environment outside the human beings has the right thing in itself and even if killing a man is what we might have to do with it now that is exactly about expanding it. Now I'd like to name a man like that. A senator has at some point discussed. We've been talking before about the French Pope. You see, he could attend a meeting three or within the opinion of the man. No. If any international criminal meeting might be brought to attention, since our forwards suggested that we swim against ecosystems were something that would have to be taken seriously. This is a man who knows the Ten Commandments, all ten. He added to suggest that a resident should be added as the crime in Rome's release, thereby being encouraged by the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u206	The man of the South District, Þórarinsson. Madam President. Thank you. It is a pleasure for a senator to bear witness to sacred works that prophesy, that are very good, and that he wholeheartedly accepts them. I am absolutely aware that it is a sin to associate with nature with much disrespect and to harm nature. However, because I said earlier that the man is a sort of guardian of nature, walking here on earth and supposed to associate with her with dignity, so that I take my heart completely under the fact that there are just some nations who are plagued by the sin of mismanagement of nature, and I just mention China as an example, they are not known for being especially opposites of Christianity or paying off her streets in that country. But naturally I don't know exactly how the Holy Pope Frans expressed it by means of a certain murder. But I can totally understand this link. A senator there mentioned. It's genocide, and then we come to this translation of something like that. But sometimes I just feel like something. We should also be thinking about the various possibilities, but now I don't know what it was like in this case. But I just say again and again, as I said before, that I like to think like this. Like a certain damage. I think that says exactly what's going on and/or certain damages, etc. But I know that the mind is positive and good there, and there's a lot very interesting in this case. You bet your ass I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u207	Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Madam President. It's been a long time tonight, and we've been here so I'm not going to extend this discussion. But now a world of Congress makes fun of the woman who stands in a necklace. No, I'm just gonna come up here to compliment you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for stopping this fine situation for having done a very careful report on the subject. I have a little anxiety in my stomach and the consequences of this case, but I trust it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson as well as all of us who want this case to be really involved in the government crisis that we will follow through on it. So I just want to thank Andrés for his initiative in this and support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u208	Madam President. I'm certainly not going to extend this discussion. I just wanted to, and I have to come up here to express my joy in the way of the Board of Education down on this matter. Although smaller things and more things have not reached the same conclusion, the importance of the matter is now total harmony with the committee. It would have been to the next town that the Allied Council could accept an idea that is on the foundation as radical as this one can take it into its arms and agree that it was something we wanted to do, although I do not completely agree on the committee how to do it or what to call it. Just don't worry about it. It is the mind that matters, as has been said. It's such a radical idea because it and it contradict only the fundamentals of our identity, much less our legislators where we work, it's making laws about human activity. We're making laws about people. Man is the measure of everything we do, and being a man in the middle of it is easier said than done to rip out a certain murder. The punishment is about that. Yes, it will benefit future generations. Yes, it is useful to people in rainforests, Amazons who lose their habitat and food and health because of the rampant greed of big corporations that have no responsibility to show. These are useful to all of these people. This is done because it benefits the earth and the earth is natural what we need to survive. When we make bigger decisions, we often forget a bit. That's why I can share a lot of anxiety. paritaprevir Helga brought the Vala of Helgadóttir to the end of this case because I want it to go as far as possible. But I am optimistic because I know it will come to an end sometime. Here, a ball is starting to roll off as everyone involved in the case of the Committee agrees that it should roll in this direction does not completely agree on how the Lord Þorsteinn wants to kick. But I hope we just kick the shit out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u209	President. I recommend to the greater part of the welfare committee for the interpretation of the Senate plan for the implementation of immigrants. The proposal suggests measures on the affairs of immigrants that match the main objectives of a law on the affairs of immigrants, No. 116/2012. We are to promote a society in which all can be active participants regardless of nationality or background. 7. The above law states that a minister should submit a recommendation to the Council for a judicial resolution of a four - year strategy in the affairs of immigrants. The plan takes into account the importance of the Government Treaty and the fact that in 2022 there was an international protection on the social and workforce of the Ministry. The committee discussed the matter and got to Gestur. Meeting, meeting guests, received reviews. This is reported in a committee study that follows the discussion of the case by the Committee. In particular, a greater proportion of the welfare committee would like to claim a positive view of the proposal, and especially rejoice that this will be a long - term policy in the affairs of immigrants, refugees, and mobs. The committee specifically discussed the importance of a firm of legal advisers for immigrants, to whom several reports pointed. Experience in this service arrangement has shown that such measures are necessary and long - term. For example, according to the National Association of Iceland, access to information and services in many languages is the key criteria of equality in diverse communities and it is necessary to ensure good access to the service in the guidance of the SIIS Association, education and the ever-old educational centres, the Agency points out that the dense network of adequacy centre may be used in this context. Based on reviews, experience has been made with this process following the approval of the Council No. 34/149 be good. The majority agree with the above views. Then the Committee discussed the importance of Icelandic education. A review of the importance of these Icelandic teachers who teach importers meet certain quality requirements. Then, at all levels of the teacher's work at all schools, it takes effort to reach a teacher in Icelandic for foreigners at the ever - increasing educational center. Then the organization points to the need to reexamine the textbook and the study material in Icelandic for foreigners. In this regard, the greater part points out that in the Treaty of the Government Groups, Independence Party, and Left Forces, there is an even higher level of offer. to review further education legislation and to start work. It will be assumed that this will include the following: Talk about the quality and setting of Icelandic education for immigrants. The committee discussed elderly people who come to the country on the basis of family unity. Commenting on the Red Cross in Iceland, one reference was made that the situation is vague. The majority share the concern expressed in the review that poverty and social isolation are at risk. The majority are directed to the Ministry to have the views expressed in the Red Cross review of the elderly's status at the introduction of the programme. The committee also discussed Iceland's Allied Association comment, about community girls, is not financial. The majority of the procedure points to quality criteria as well as to explain and sharpen rules relating to rights for interpretation services. The majority, however, agree with the viewpoint expressed in the review of the Union that a good and professional interpretation is essential for access to the community and for which the interpretation of a powerful profession is needed. The majority of the measures are considered to be aimed at this objective, as well as to indicate that the Council agreed to the Council's resolution of No. 31/151 of June 12 last year about the growth of individuals who are not recommended in their dealings with the government. Then the committee discussed workforce protection and rights. As told by ASI and BSRB, there is concern over violations of work in the Icelandic labour market. ASI notes that as there was an increase in the number of immigrants in the Icelandic labour market, labor movement had seen and had to cope with increasing violations of work in the Icelandic labour market. Discrimination is directed to those who are less familiar with their rights and who are a foreign - paying people in that group. The majority agree that this need to be taken into account and that the aims of the Action Programme will contribute to greater protection in the Icelandic labour market by providing good information on rights and duties against social subsidiary of the European labour market. The Commission agrees with the Commission's comments about the involvement of importers in elections in view of the fact that the local campaign of immigrants is low and points out that the proposal was built before changing the rights of immigrants. Changing the rights of immigrants to votes became valid and agrees with the importance of working to improve the involvement of immigrants in elections and other aspects of community activity. The majority also point to the Ministry that it contributes to cooperation with the branch office to increase the participation of importers in elections and social activities. Finally, the Committee considers the Commission to address the concern of various sources of funding for the proposals. In this regard, the Commission points out that the cost estimates of the proposal were derived from the Department of Social and Work, and it is an estimate of the greater part that the measures outlined in the proposal will be fully financed. Then it seems that the more part is right to be able to do this job. Is the embezzlement fund of immigrants and the emphasis on the fund. magazines to support projects outlined in the Import Management Plan. Madam President. A majority of welfare committees suggest some changes in the bill. First, there is a change in the list of partners in the proposal. The majority would like to point out that the list of partners is not exhaustive, as there is only an example of partners and therefore no barrier that more people are called to cooperate with the implementation of individual actions. Second, the majority take the lead under the indication of Unit Rark, Iceland's information agency linked to a university education. Therefore, the majority suggest a change in wording of action, according to the six ways it achieves both advanced and advanced physical assessment. Third, the majority point out that a new agreement is made on the concerted reception of refugees, including those in the United States, has been made. Based on the results of the war in Ukraine So the majority suggest a change in the wording of action. One is referred to in other respects as a detailed discussion of changes in the opinion of a greater proportion of welfare committees. According to the above, a greater proportion of welfare committees contribute to the approval of the proposal by the changes made. Also, under the heading "Publices " and" Pubs. " Councilmen, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, Guðnýju Birna Guðmundsdóttir, Prerogative Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Hrönn Mersteinsótttir and Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u210	A respectable president. I recommend a pan-European and educational committee on a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50 from 1993. The bill includes changes in the addition of damage laws to the law of laxity in specific matters. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors and received reviews in the front committee. All the reporters welcomed the case. The bill suggests the possibility of a legal application in private matters involving the abuse and harm done by sexual acts and the violent acts of crime between close members of the family. Special emphasis is made on the fact that in spite of the infractions of the study and criminal charges, the victims of acts of acts of acts of sexual abuse and tolerance in close relationships may be pressured by those who are tolerated to commit crimes despite the infractions of the case or to justify criminal charges, to be pressured to seek financial reforms for those who have committed a private act. The committee believes that it is important to support the application procedure beyond the 126th gr. the handling of private matters should take into account the nature of their fractures and the severity of their cases. In the handling of the matter, the commission was directed to 1st. The bill may stipulate Article 1. The bill could be considered too extensive. Since the committee feels that there are different degrees of sexual abuse, it suggests that certain legal requirements are referred to. It's 190. It gets 194 to 198. and 200 to 202rd par. ... insteadof referring to the entire 22nd chapter of the law. Pointing to 218. gr. the same law on violence in a close relationship remains unchanged. At the same time, the commission suggests that there was a possible violation for police investigation. The change thus stems from the fact that the law leads to private violations of the law, not to the police, who test cases and reports cases. Public interests are responsible for sexual crime and domestic violence, criminal offenses, and police investigation. This requirement, therefore, is to ensure that those who tolerate it will not be turned away from the authorities because such a violation will be reported to the police. Then the commission suggests that a candidate who wishes on the basis of the provision of the provision for a personal neglect or damage will be shown in the commission to the parish that there is a possibility of a damage to the case. In that case, the Commission would particularly like to justify the conditions of a and b-articular 1st. 126.g. There is no need for personal treatment to be satisfied, so there is room for neglect. It is then the responsibility of the parish committee to evaluate the matter and to make a decision to make the hospitality of the people according to the arrangement. Finally, a postponing is suggested on June 1 to 223. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made. In addition to what we read here, here we are under the heading "Publices. " The people of the assembly, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter, Birggith the daughter of Þórarinsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Birgir of the Ármannsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir, the daughter of Sigurir, and Kári Gautason. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to thank the board for their good work and to thank them very much. paritaprevir Vala Vól Vól Helgadóttir gave the first transporterman and other transporters of the bill for their work. The situation in this matter is of utmost importance to me. Here is an important step that can be of major importance to the victims of sexual abuse and toleries of violent crime. In close contacts, why not? 4th, including Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u211	Madam President. It's a big day, and I sure hope it will support this support out of the Committee that the greater part will vote for this matter, and I believe it will. It is legal in these matters, both sexual abuse and domestic violence, that violations of the right to get help a court official in the criminal affairs of child abuse throughout the process. This is an enormously difficult case, and there is one person who follows a violation of his or her ability to report a violation until the end of court hearings if the case goes far. Sadly, though, things rarely get this far. The majority of them are cut down by investigation or charges, and if they are very few, then, of course, a number of cases are acquitted. At that time, the court guard is faced with the need to explain to the offense when there are a number of data on the table showing that a person was violated, that this is not proof that events have not happened, but that it is about the possibility that the defendant has failed to assume beyond any doubt that the defendant has been guilty of what has been brought upon him, according to a charge issued by the prosecution. This is the broad range of criminal legal matters. Laws are different. They simply look at the chances, whether they are more likely or less, that the policy has taken place. Thus, the burden of evidence is completely different in these matters. There is no personal punishment, but there is a person looking for ways to make peace with his alleged bacteria in the criminal case when they realize that it is possible to obtain some sort of payment on the case or to be recognized as the fact that events have happened. This can be of utmost importance to the future, to the health and ability of a person to connect with another person, to emotional relationships, and to know that there will be a difference, even though I know that there will not be many matters that will eventually go into this process, that it will be in private, I know that in single cases, especially in these most serious matters, this can eventually make a big difference to the future for individuals. I'd like to thank the Committee. I'd like to thank them a lot of members of all classes here at the council for bringing this matter with me. The situation is extremely important. We do not have to worry about the raffle lawsuits because there is no match for judicial action. It's just a little bit more than a load, or it's in it. So I think we're taking a huge step for justice because of our wrongdoing. No more have been silent and are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u212	Hafsteinsdóttir's daughter. A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Commission's welfare committee on the bill of professional rights of foreigners who move to a business company. The bill suggests changes in the provision of temporary employment opportunities to those who move to a business company with a national employment station. The purpose of the change is to ensure equal rights of those who have received temporary employment rights regardless of whether such rights are given on the basis of family unity or professional expertise. The changes are in harmony with the government covenant, which states that the laws on foreigners and the laws on the job rights of foreigners should be revised. The aim of this review is to clear up the provision of living-instructions based on employment participation and to increase efficiency via streamlining processes, including based on special contact with the country, such as on family compatibility, the available bill is consistent with that. The Commission stated that in the coming years there will be a large increase in domestic activities over the growth of domestic people during the working years, and the need for the import of foreign workers is therefore high. The majority agree that these trends need to be met by a pre-existing bill in this process. The majority suggest that the bill will be passed on and under the opinion of the greater portion of the publication, as well as the above, p. Councilmen, Björgvin Jóhannesson, I'm sorry, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Óli Björn Kárason, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. On July 8, 2021, a foreign and development minister for Iceland signed a new vacation contract with Britain. In proposals from foreign sources and development joint ministers to evangelize the decision to validate the free trade agreement, there are lists of necessary legal modifications due to free trades agreements and other agreements with Britain because of its passage from the EU and EEA. That's where even the two of them come from. to make changes in the work rights of foreigners that require that the closest members of the European Commission who are temporarily working in Iceland be allowed to apply for residence and employment permit on the basis of family unity. Here is the proposed changes to the laws on professional rights, the rights of foreigners needed for the sake of an earlier-mentioned free trade deal with Britain, and is referred to in the judicial hearing. A respectable president. To put it into practice, this is a work permit for those who already have jobs at work abroad but who are not here for the benefit of looking for a job job. This will also be useful to foreign authorities who come here, while Icelanders who also move within a foreign business office take the lead in less well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u213	Reykjavíkurburg District North, Halldóra Mogensen. President. It is important that along with the changes proposed in the bill to become a step to cover the group taking refuge in Iceland from the Ukraine War. A similar proposal is found in a bill on foreigners'201 cases that had been lost during the last days, the current legislature council. The proposal includes that foreigners who have been granted a permit on the grounds of humanitarianism or because of a special connection with the land under the laws of foreigners will be excluded from the provision of temporary employment permits in this country and because of the government's decision to use 44.g. the Management of Refugees from Ukraine insists on making changes in the legal rights of foreigners so that all who are authorized on the grounds of humanitarianism are granted automatic and uninterrupted employment permit. It is important that refugees from Ukraine do not suffer the decision of a justice minister to compromise their claim to achieve those goals but to discuss most of the issues that are not involved. The smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to the Council Report 732. Under this view, the writer of this article along with the Guðný - given Baby Guðmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u214	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's opinion on the behalf of a majority of the welfare committee on the bill to correct the conversion of electric cigarettes and battery refills, No. 87/2018 regarding nicotine products. The bill suggests changes in electric cigarettes and electrical devices, No. 87/2018, such as nicotine pads, will be added to the laws of the law. So far, no law has taken care of nicotine goods in this country. If this bill is legal, it means that such products are largely the same as the rules and requirements of electric cigarettes and refill them. The objective of the bill is to set clear sources for sale, marketing and use of nicotine products by agreeing with the same rules and conditions that apply to electric cigarettes and electric refills. The committee discussed the matter and found visitors, and there were reports. They are reported in a committee program on the 1318 Parliament. Nicotine products, such as nicotine pads, are a relatively recent product, and it is only over two years since its product is introduced to some extent in the market in Iceland. The consumption of the product has increased rapidly in this country, and research shows that up to one third of high school students aged 163/418 years have been denied, and the greater part shows that reporters generally agree on the importance of authorship, marketing, and nicotine use, but some comments were made on the subject. Thus, the reviews, reports, and coverage revealed some disagreement on its subject, either that the bill went too far or that it had to go further in limiting the quality and availability of nicotine products. The greater part of the discussion stressed how to reduce the impact of the product on young people. Following the Commission's discussion, the majority of the items want to be submitted. The bill suggests changes to Article 11. The law on banning the use of nicotine products, in view of the majority of the committees, no longer forbids its purpose as such advertisements pass through foreign media to Icelanders, either through foreign sounds and media, foreign sites, social media, or foreign magazines, and magazines. According to this, the majority are directed to the Ministry that a global review of advertising regulations involving nicotine tobacco and alcohol, land products, and the overall design and aims of laws on such bans will be for the purpose of the changes proposed by the Committee, two. First of all, it's suggested that the 9th parr. the bill that commands the prohibition on import, manufacture and sale of nicotine products containing flavours will be removed. The committee received some reviews that forbid the use of flavors to be criticized. Then, research on the effects of flavouring nicotine, yes, should be taken into account that research on the effects of nicotine products is limited, since it was short on the market as mentioned earlier. The reviews and discussions of the case in the Committee have given rise to conflicting opinions on this prohibition, and within the Committee there were differences in view of taste. The ban. Although the use of flavourings may affect the consumption of children and young people on the product, the greater part of the finding is that more work is needed to determine the effects of such measures and possible ways to eliminate and enforce the prohibition. Thus, in view of the greater part, it is clear that more time for such prohibitions or for providing them with solid support for the ban is not in other words well substantiated as it is stated in this bill. The majority suggest that the Ministry of Health and the Rapporteurs continue to monitor international studies and policy-makers on the effects of consumer taste and the ways to reduce their consumption. So in view of these views, the majority of the shares contribute to the above - mentioned "B" section 9. gr. the bill on the prohibition on import, manufacture and sale of nicotinic products containing flavours will be removed. Second, the more part contributes to a change of 12. the bill on the ban on use. Nicotine was in places where young and young people gather as if in a cell. 12th degree. The bill is suggested to add a new paragraph to Article 12. The law forbids nicotine products in schools and other educational institutions in other places where children and young people gather. The committee found fault with the words of the article that they may cause misunderstandings and bans may be interpreted to reach all educational institutions, regardless of the age of students, but it was also shown to sharpen the scope of the law's field of work for children. The majority agree with this criticism, so they agree that the rendering of this article needs to be explained and that it suggests the rendering of Article 12. changes to be made to make sure that the use of nicotine pads is prohibited everywhere, where children and young people meet in day care as well as in organized schools, sports, and leisure activities, whether taking place inside or outside, this list is not limited to the law but by age, but about 18 years. According to the above, a greater proportion of the committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes made. Under the view of a greater part of the social committee of publications, as well as the above, why. Councilmen, Björgvin Jóhannesson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, The Guðnýju Birna Guðmundsdóttir, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Hörnsteinsdótir, Óli Björn Kárason, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. As mentioned for the first time, a clear license for sale, marketing and use of nicotine products is being established by most of the same rules that apply to electric cigarettes and electric refill procedures. I consider this enormously important step to be in charge of this product on the market, but as mentioned earlier, it is a product that has only been on the market for two years. I'd also like to mention here that we're going to see some changes in tobacco laws, would like its standards in the months and years, in fact, in the light of international knowledge and policies on prevention and markets of these products, poor to be spoken of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-15.u215	A respectable president. I can't help but comment on this subject, which was rather controversial when it entered the council, and there was such a lively discussion during the 1st discussion. Of course, we're talking about a change in electric cigarettes and a refill for electric cigarettes and under there are nicotine pads that may all be talking about, and of course the primary objective of protecting children and young people is to set clear market rules for these products, for example. Access to them to children and young men and all that thought. I've got a whole mind to think about. There is no need for young people to use this product. But it's like so many other things. It is possible to go too far in the protection, so that the law may be in such a state as meaningless, it becomes too controversial and may not fully serve its purpose. I've got to say it just as it is, then it's all intertwining with a good dose and premeditation and this. Such extreme belief in commandments and bans, to solve the problem, that we always add human health to the rules and regulations, to the best of children and young people and adults with commandments and bans, but it's not just that kind of thing. There are other ways to reach them with sensible and positive goals. It's actually better to do so, and when this bill came in, I made serious comments, such as very many others, especially to this taste, ban. It was, of course, a law stating that the import, production, and selling of nicotine products and electrical fags would be forbidden and battery - containing flavors that may appeal to children, such as candy and fruit flavors. The secretary must set up a Regulation on the details of this procedure. So it came into the council, but I see, of course, that the committee has addressed it and suggested in the Committee that it will go out, and that's good. But I just want to stop and just think about how this happens, how sit down, think, and write, and find that such a law should serve its purpose. Why is it that people do not resort to the definition of exercise that begins to perceive what is considered a sweet taste, and what is a fruit flavour? You can quickly go into trouble with it. Of course, this sounds good and beautiful, but there will be an impossible definition in this, beyond the fact that adults are allowed to use these nicotine products with some kind of candy or fruit flavor, so that there are no rules to protect children and young people who will bite on what we can call the normal consumption of adults. It's not the right way, and I actually listened to it, and I hope I'm sorry to say that I even had a feeling when we were discussing this in the first round, to the top. A health minister would not have deep conviction for this definition. You know, you know, He has fallen under obligation to set up a regulation on the further implementation of this arrangement, and I felt that it was the highest. A minister there is a problem, and of course I'm glad that this was taken into consideration, and there's a suggestion on what I'm going to support, of course because we're here to form a dangerous product that is alcohol, which is where we're allowing candy and fruit flavor. We have tobacco shots, and we have chocolate, porridge coffee, so it's such a paradox when it comes to any product that threatens human health, which I find hard to accept in any way. It's gone out, and it's fine. However, I would also like to reflect on the fact that it is mentioned in the report when the matter comes in. Research shows that flavors, especially candy and fruit flavors, play a major role in the popularity of electric cigarettes among young and young people, and argue that the same is true of young nicotine's popularity. This is difficult for me to accept because here, all of a sudden, there is a paper in a bill that the Senate should address, some kind of gymnasium that studies can be taken and applied to other things, and this makes me feel critical. It also states: At the same time as daily or routine smoking by young people on electronets and nicotine have become increasingly available because of internal or new addictions. Nicotine is on the market. That is especially true of the adult population. It's just a straight line between here. There were a lot of people who stopped smoking when the electric cigarettes came, and there were an amazing number of people who quit and use that nicotine. The covens came, so this line is, of course, pretty strong, you think the same thing could be said about it when it comes to children and teenagers. Of course, we do not want young ones to be the heads of these products. It's better to use conversation. Children and young people aren't crazy. They're reasonable, they're smart. It's just a matter of trying to get closer in a better way. I am absolutely convinced that it is a more successful way to achieve what is right there. That's what we're trying to get, and we can use it here because, look, if this whole fruit flavor and study trick had become a reality, it would really have meant that the vast majority of all nicotine, shop, had gone out into the market because it all had a taste. We did not drink to teens by making drinking so burdensome that it would almost be forbidden. We did not, we did, and we succeeded, and we are to use this as an example when we are in this situation. But then I just want to make a comment that although I agree with a greater part of the welfare committee in taking out this flavor wholeheartedly, I am amazed at the support and can't really read anything else from the reason but so that the more part of the welfare committee is very interested in later, that there are certain conditions, to adopt this prohibition because it says in the Committee. Despite the fact that the use of flavouring agents may be effective in reducing consumption of children and young people and nicotine products, the majority of the results are that further work needs to be identified and possible by implementing such bans and, in view of the greater part, it is clear that more time for such prohibitions to be implemented and given the more solid support. In other words, the ban is not properly prepared as it is stated in this bill, and the majority encourages the health Ministry and the Rapporteur to continue monitoring international studies and policies on the effects of nicotine abuse products and the ways to reduce it. And this is what I feel is a logical support that I cannot agree with, even though I agree with the conclusion that it should take flavors out, so I feel that here we may need to discuss this further on some other basis rather than on what is the opposite of logical support that we are presented in this committee. Excuse me. There is, however, something else that is positive in this regard. It is that the commission, with advertising on nicotine products, suggested the change and direct it to the Ministry that there will be an overall review of the rules of commercial advertising that touch nicotine tobacco and alcohol on the land so that the whole range and aims of laws for such bans will have their purpose and, of course, can be understood differently. But that's that much more is hiding the Ministry and the Ministry. The health secretary to look at this, to create some internal harmony there, and the possibility that this rule will be more consistent with the international environment in which we live and, of course, have changed the media, landscapes, social services, and other factors, the different national and foreign facilities play a large part in it, hoping that this will lead to some good landing in it. But I'd like to mention two more things that are not addressed in the Committee opinion, and on the other hand, I feel that this is what turns toward observation, housewives and housing, and the conditions that immigrants and the seals of these products need to meet, are a little burdensome, quite burdensome, that my knowledge is that those who intend to put such products in the market should be made a report six months before the marketing is scheduled, or three months before the planned marketing of nicotine products. Six months was then for electric cigarettes and refills, and I don't think this is necessarily ideal, though I understand well that the purpose behind this is, of course, to have some kind of perspective and principle that should be improved. But it's a very sceptical question whether it does it over its heads, and then I also wondered about it as the turning point that it is, for example. You are talking about what's involved in how pictures e.g. those lips are on the face, and they make me feel uncomfortable. There may also be a specific definition problem, so although I have a heartfelt agreement with the goals they are trying to achieve with this bill, I am not necessarily sure that we are on the right way to reach that goal, so I don't know if I was so dramatic and say: See, the way to hell is protected from good intentions. The plan is good, but I'm not necessarily sure that the result will be a very good one. So if you have any hours to think about it better. Of course, it's coming a little late into the council hall from the committee. To be honest, I still have a little bit of a problem with this case, although a majority of the welfare committees have certainly made certain improvements, and it also points out that the evidence support for this trick ban that unless it's odd, I feel, at a respectable welfare committee.
