ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u1	A respectable president. I just got back from an open meeting of the management and monitoring committee at the highest level. Minister of Justice, which made it clear. Despite a clear legal obligation, the Minister of Justice is not going to direct them to the Foreign Institute of Iceland to deliver the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the information needed by a General and Education Committee to win the Civil Rights application. It's clear to the highest. The Minister of Justice sees it as an exception to the Constitution of the Council and by the law to provide citizens' rights by the law, by the law, and by the way, by the decision of the administration and by the preparation of legislation by the Council. It also appeared, and this is my question to the highest. A president he didn't answer yesterday when I went to the conference board on this matter, that the minister had spoken to the highest court. In fact, there was little more to it than the matter for the president of this matter at a council meeting. I'd like to ask the highest. President: Has he really done nothing to get a minister of justice to stop them from receiving news from the National Institute of Iceland? Who has been in contact with the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u2	The president wants to inform you that he has had some discussions with members of this particular subject and will continue to try to work out a prarkic solution in this case that has been raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u3	Mr. President. But I thought it was the best. Ministers downplay those relationships. All right. If they've been someone, it would be nice to be informed whether the president has pressured the council to receive the information it deserves. It was shown at the hearing quoted above that the Ministry Department came to the meeting in December and promised that data would be obtained on February 1. The minister mourned for the misunderstanding that had evidently taken place in the Ministry's dealings with the committee and repeated that he was completely clear with the way he thought the matter should be handled. There will be no understanding of anything other than some way a minister has provided guidance, a command, or what they want to call it, to the National Institute of Iceland that these data will not be submitted. So it's all become incredibly difficult, and it's a bad case that the president has to enter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's happened here with them. Congressmen who before me spoke. I'd like to make my suggestion that the president of the Generals inform the council if it's true to the highest degree. At this open meeting this morning, the minister said there was no need for the council to receive this information. The law in the General Assembly just did not apply in this case. I'd like to get this straight, and I think it's the role of the Speaker to explain this to the council. It would be even worse if these issues were to be applied more frequently to the general public, for it would be a noose that is now between Congress and Ministry and Council and the Foreign Institute of England, only the people who want to live here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with those who've spoken before. This has become a very strange thing to do. It's like we're here like a broken machine at a fast turn, asking for simple data. What's wrong with this system? I'm asking you, is the Minister's Authority absolute? I can't imagine what this is. Is there something amazing in these data, or is it simply preventing the committee from doing their jobs? It must be very serious. It must be time for it at the highest. To address this matter, the president's decision to make sure that the minister's authority cannot, with its sole decision, prevent the committee from getting the information it needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u6	A respectable president. I think it needs to be seen that this is about the cooperation of Ministers with the Allied Parliament, with the legislature. The General has a role to play, and it seems to me to be at the highest level. A minister is in some way that he is not going to raise his finger to assist the General of his work, and he has become an independent obstacle to the fact that the Council can work according to his work. If we think about it only now and take some other group of cases, and this would be the project; what example is setting here on how the Council can work? Or have we come somewhere else, that Iceland's Minister has an independent war with the legislature, the Allied Council of Iceland? Is that really the situation here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u7	A respectable president. At this same meeting this morning, the highest was discussed. Minister of Justice on how he simply interpreted the law himself. What he simply acknowledged was that he was breaking the law he was to follow. Perhaps this is the new way of getting out of being judged for something. Yeah, I hit 140. Oh, I think the law is supposed to be so I can drive 140. You see, this is a very important example. If the highest. Minister can interpret laws as he wants, but not the way the law is written, we're breaking down the whole system here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u8	A respectable president. Now I'm not in trouble. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, but it got a little bit windy to hear that a minister had actually thrown the ball into the President's arms at an open meeting this morning and would like less. Mr President, he's the president of the entire council. According to Article 8, he has a duty to the council. Parliamentary law. He shall make sure that the work of the council is in accordance with the regulations of the Constitution, Congress, and other laws. If the President doesn't get a strong grip on what's going on here, where a minister's keeping the law from doing what he's doing, that the Council can fulfill its legal obligation, I think the President has to run over the Congress again and see what the job is saying. I think it is necessary that the president now join the General Assembly to defend this great institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u9	President. I'd like to know how serious a case is. A president thinks it's something. I know a president only by good works, not necessarily fast work, but at least good. The more serious this case is, the faster you'd think it would be necessary to take action. You see, we are in that position, as mentioned at this morning's open meeting, that the Subcommittee simply received an offer to manually select, that each member of the committee could hand some ten envelopes out of the stack to just settle the problem and then the case was dead. Of course, the Subcommittee said, "No way. " Such unprofessional work is just complete - I don't want to use the correct description, it's not appropriate in this speech chair. It's a terrible thing to offer such an unprofessional practice. Of course, the council said: "No! We're supposed to be doing this very well and professionally, not after some kind of minor member of the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u10	Mr. President. I am here a miserable senator trying to understand the rules that we are now working on, according to the minister's words and sort of inaction. Because if I understand correctly, at this meeting, the minister referred to an article of the Constitutional Act of the Generals, that it is excluded from that, it is very clear, and therefore not his duty to inform, that the Generals' surveillance of the State and its subsets will be reversed. It's a definition of public employment. So the question may be, Do we look forward to some new reality here, that the foreign affairs are no longer official issues and will not come to the council? I'd like to hear it, and I'd like to be as excited as any senator on behalf of the president here. But I would like to hear the response of the Generals because it has nothing to do with the council and the future work. Have we been working here recently against the law? Have we been calling for information on matters that were beyond our reach? Or what's the situation? Laws remain intact. It looks like it's changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u11	A respectable president. There are many turned upside-downs in this discussion about the President's conference board, such as that a minister interprets the law with his nose and threw the ball into the court. President; that Minister prevents the law from being carried out, etc. This is about the work that we have committed to the Agency to work afterwards being equal between candidates and transparency in what the Agency is discussing. What the General is asking us to do is put in place the number of applications in the order, which was the work force in the past when the applications were very few, and handle them at some particular rate at the expense of the others. In this regard, the U.S. government agent has made comments, saying that the speed of treatment for those who had to wait and took a traditional course is way too long. That's what we're dealing with. [[The president calls.]] This work is done by the General to request that the Minister and the Agency break laws that we do not trust to do unless the Council imposes laws specifically on us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] The law does not require that these applications be accelerated any more than others. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is: It's in the law.]] - There's no law against that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u12	The president reminds us that speaking time is limited when members of Congress and Ministers address a meeting of presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u13	A respectable president. I have to say, as a new senator, I'm basically completely speechless. I have no reputation that the Council is denied information. That's not reassuring. This is meant to raise questions about what is being hidden. I hope it's not hiding anything, but it's not reassuring. I think it's a disrespect for voters, to council members, to the committee, to the Council, just to the democracy. I'm not going to say any more because I'm practically speechless.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u14	A respectable president. Of course, hearing the highest is quite amazing. Minister of Justice will come up here and blow everything out and south. It is very clear in the law of civil rights that the principle is that the Allied Council gives citizens legal rights. It's 6. Act of citizen's rights. Then the Foreign Institute is permitted to provide citizenship with certain conditions, legal conditions, fulfilled. That's how it works. Before the General Assembly grants citizen's rights by the law given by the Council by the General of the Council to determine how it provides, it should - and it is in the law: shall be given to the Foreign Office of England. Except, of course, for those fairy tales of 51 st. Parliamentary song - and I would like a memo from the General's Law to see if this adventurer interpretation is the highest. Of course, a minister has some evidence to support himself - of course, it is with great wonder that a minister would give equal references to candidates but then offer the Subcommittee to take 30 applications from the 170 who were before the council. He doesn't keep any water, this Minister's lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u15	Mr. President. V.E.G. Of course, a minister can keep on groping about the way the world should walk and act and how he feels law should be done. However, he is required to act on them. And if there is an inadequacy in the Foreign Institute, there are, of course, many ways of dealing with it other than breaking the law. I just want to point the top. The minister says that he is not a sun - king who accepts his authority from gods. Rather, he works here on behalf of the council and must work under the law given there. That's what this is all about. Until he does so and submits to the laws he has to follow, there will be no peace here within the house. That's why I must reiterate to the highest. The president steps in and takes the initiative to get the promised data, which was so betrayed, and the minister now says that it is unlikely that it will happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u16	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister of Justice spoke of work. This is where we live. The U.S. National Rights Act simply states that it is possible to give an Icelandic citizen the right to rule, which is then in the hands of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland, or by law, under the hands of the General Assembly. This isn't about going in front of the queue, chief. A minister, rather, simply means that people are in all kinds of situations, and therefore they apply. It has the right and the right to apply according to the law for an Icelandic citizen's right. It is not a matter of putting someone ahead of others. People are applying through the Generals. That makes it clear. A minister must learn more about his tribe if he is so mistaken. This is very clear in the law, and all he needs is guidance in this, since he has so little knowledge of it. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u17	V.E.G. President. It is clear that the Council is legally entitled to citizens, and it is very important that the Council do this. No one, I think, can imagine how varied the circumstances of the people who are applying for them are unless we have studied the data that the U.S. National Institutes have worked for the General Assembly, and we have used to build on the law of citizens. It is extremely important that the evidence requested by the Council be obtained. Happily, the cooperation with the Foreign Institute has often been extremely successful in these matters. However, that has not been the case with the last few years. There's been a mistake. On the other hand, I hope that a full-scale and educational committee will go to this job and this conversation with the Foreign Institute of England and restore these issues. [[The president calls.]] It's the honour of the Generals that we do this well and that we give people the citizenship rights so that we're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u18	Mr. President. U.S.A., the country is a republic with a conniving regime. V.E.G. The president may be familiar with 1st par. The constitution, but I wondered if it's the highest. Minister of Justice needs a review course in this principle of Iceland's administration. The minister is in charge of the council, a majority of the council. It's supposed to be a law like the Foreign Institute's supposed to do, but it's not, as it turned out. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, in recent years, has sought to bend and break laws in their own way. Worse yet, now that the U.S. National Institute has become completely hardened, the Minister of Justice provides her with cover. The man who, like the rest of us, should be covering the Iceland Constitution provides shelter for the National Institute of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. This can't stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u19	A respectable president. It all began as a disrespect to the Council, but it has gone so far beyond that. It's gotten like this because of the highest. Minister's beginning to break the law. When the highest one. A minister of judicial matters is even more serious. There's only one way out of this, and it's the highest. A minister resigns, or is sent to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u20	A respectable president. From what has been said here, I feel that there is a reason for me to come up a little bit, so that it is clear to everyone, including new members of the committee, that it is not that the Foreign Institute has not sent the applications and the information available. The decision here is that the National Institute of Iceland has to work out the information on these applications, just to be handled, and there has been no problem with getting the information and information available in the Agency. Here's a debate over the 51st paragraph interpretation. and it has led to a challenge to get the Senate law office to give us some sort of diagnosis. I think it's good because it's like that. The General and Education Committee booked in December and referred them to Article 51. and requested that both applications and reviews be applied at the beginning of the month of February. I'm afraid it didn't happen, but we've come to consider the principle and the right to give a citizen's right. [[The president calls.]] That's actually what I would have chosen to be in the General and Education Committee now, i.e. to consider the future arrangement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's perfectly clear that we have to solve this knot, and I expect and I hope we can settle these 170 applications very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u21	The president still reminds us that in the case of President's conference board, each speaker has only one minute, not a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u22	Mr. President. In view of the nature of the situation, I must add it. The head of the General and Education Committee does not have a very strong defense but still defends the National Institute for Foreign Affairs in this matter, that what goes by. A chairman, about the claims of candidates for civil rights finding their way to the Generals, is of no importance because that is not all the government is required to do. A foreign agency is to be submitted to the General applications of these individuals. It is to be returned the references to those applications, and it is to be returned to the State Marshal's comments about them. These three data need to be available for every application, but only one of the three cops has returned from the Foreign Institute. We have nothing to commend the agency for making a third of its legal obligation. It can either resist the law or it can't. [[The president calls.]] A foreign agency is breaking laws in the shelter of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] The head of the General and Education Committee, member of the Independence Party, does not have to defend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u23	A respectable president. It's good to put this into context. The data referred to, the applications themselves, are the easy part, really. Only forms are returned, papers, etc. who are gathered, just a certain check list. The job that needs to be done and paid for, $25,000. For each application, the exact information given to the National Institute for application and the job of extracting this from the State Marshal is mainly the review. The application itself is useless without the discussion. There is no context of what the application is like without it. That's what we've been waiting for all along. The application was even late. They came, though, but that's the easy part. It's just the paperwork that exists when you post it. Besides, it's $25,000. which every applicant pays to the Foreign Institute to attend their rights according to Iceland's Constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u24	A respectable president. Here's things back and forth again, as far as I'm concerned. I encourage senators to examine the laws that are behind them. I studied it well at an hour meeting with the Committee this morning, an open meeting, which I expect many people have observed in this door. It's clear that the Council is a citizen's right. This is serious when ministers and the agency are told to violate laws. It's the Council that makes laws. That's perfectly clear. Even the general council doesn't need these reviews from the Foreign Institute if they choose to do so. [[Up front.]] It can only take these applications and handle them. [[Up front.]] It is good to bear in mind that in the law of which the Agency's work should be submitted by this application, there is no law in which the application procedure to be applied by the General Parliament should be submitted to other candidates. [[The president calls.]] And to this the agent has made a note. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] We are here following the transparency and honesty of the applicant, whether they wish to go to the administrative route or to receive applications to the Generals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what's being done here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u25	A respectable president. Listening to the highest things is amazing. Ministers to speak up, and always it is so that the entire council is misunderstood. He understands correctly, the council misunderstood. It's not like that. We are asking that this be done in the same way that has been practiced for many years. On the other hand, the highest. A minister insists that the procedure that has been taken in the past has suddenly become a gross violation of the law. It's simply the wrong assessment at the highest. Minister. And speaking of equality, those who applied to become citizens this way to the Generals may absolutely insist on enjoying equality with those who went that way over the years, last, last, last, and so before. They've already paid for their application, and there's nothing in the law that says they should be treated differently than the last few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u26	To answer, foreign minister, minister of culture and commerce, education and child - care ministers, justice ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u27	Mr. President. A recent study of the workforce provides insight into the shadowy reality of many people who have had to deal with heavy burdens in the pandemic. The results suggest that large groups of people, both financially and spiritually, are poorer than they were one year ago. Single parents, low - income groups, immigrants, and young children are at a disadvantage. The results not only paint an adult's status but also tell of a number of children who are not well - equipped. Thousands of children suffer a material shortage in our rich country, are not fed properly, and do not need clothing or access to leisure activities. All of this, intensifies inflation at an unusual high level, and Iceland's Sensitive Republic has taken control interest in two percentages in a short period of time. Clearly, this trend will be much worse for vulnerable groups, and it is likely that the increase in housing payments, rising rent prices, expensive food shortages, can destroy many homes, and more children need to live a material shortage. In view of this situation, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of child care what actions he sees to it that the government must take action to protect the situation of these people and children. Won't the government just have to intervene immediately by action in a difficult situation in support of groups and then look to the synonym made here yesterday or the previous day by the Conspiracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. In many ways, I agree with what. A senator on the status of children and children's families, and that's where we need to do better. Nevertheless, throughout the epidemic, we have done quite a bit when it comes to the affairs of children and children's families. It has been considered in social activities, it has also been used through the unemployment insurance system and through the Department of Social Affairs, with special payments for children's families. For the first time, the State has stepped in with a special leisure grant to children in less income - poor homes, which was temporaryized in the pandemic, and it could continue to be counted. When this epidemic takes place and we see the subsequent economic effects, it is clear that continued action needs to be carried out. I even introduced her. In the government last Friday, the Ministry of Education and Children's Department plans to go to a special restoration package for children and young people at the time of the pandemic. These restoration measures will have to be on social foundations, but also on educational grounds, as it is quite clear that this epidemic has had an impact, and I agree with it. Senator. We need to hold our vulnerable citizens for a certain time after the epidemic. I intend to have good cooperation with all major stakeholders in building such a restoration package. [[The president calls.]] There was a very good discussion about this in the government, and I know that another Ministry is looking at the situation in a similar way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u29	Mr. President. I'm not asking a minister what road he's driven through. I'm asking where he's going to think. It is not enough to have beautiful words or even put out beautiful bills that have no capital value. It is enough to mention the leisure strength and the other things that just haven't worked. I'm asking about the emergency problems resulting from high inflation and rising interest that will particularly be ill on young families and children. What will the government do? What does he think the government should do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u30	A respectable president. The reason I felt that it was important to discuss the action that has been under attack is because the senator said that nothing had been done and that nothing had been financed. He did it again in a second request, saying that there had been some beautiful bills that had not been funded. It's simply wrong. [[Up front.]] - A respectable president, it's very difficult to speak here when the senator cannot be quiet in the councilroom. How important it is to step in with children and children's families regarding the factors mentioned earlier, and we are going to continue that operation! It is also important to enter the economy by means of measures to reduce the burden of less income. I wholeheartedly agree with a minister of business who discussed this morning's media that we should take on social action. There we should look to any possible action that can be taken and look at funding, considering how the financial system will intervene. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. Senator: We need action. We need to form them, but they need to be on a broad foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u31	A respectable president. Yesterday, a record of infections in Iceland, 2,254 infections due to Covid-19 were observed. Of these, 36 were infected persons in a hospital and two were in a ventilator. Their average age is 63 years. The 250 staff of the Land Hospital are in solitary confinement. The last aid of a pathologist was the removal of regulations for isolation and infestation amongst those proposed to attack in February 24 and is now available to speed up detoxification. V.E.G. On Tuesday, a health minister said that he assumed that a large step would be taken into the decomposition of disease prevention tomorrow. It will be two weeks after the government presented its decomposition program, which is scheduled to be removed in mid - March. Well, according to the Supreme Opportunity plan. The next step tomorrow will be taken by a health minister, ten days before the expected date. Is that right, chief? Ministers of health, that tomorrow the consecration and isolation regulations will be eliminated? If so, what will happen? Will people with active Covid's disease be free to go? Will there be people who have been close to those who have been infected to work? Is it time to take such action when one falls after another? We have these figures from the Land Hospital where 250 workers are in isolation, 2,254 infection, record. Is it time to break the rule of isolation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for this inquiry. That's right, we're here at a critical point in this ultrasound wave and the whole epidemic where transmission of infectious diseases is very high. The number of people who suffer from poor health and who need intensive care has been blessed. We've been, between these extraction dates, lighting up, making evasives that turn to form sitting events and contours, etc. And now the main question at this delicate point is whether we, as foretold in step two, should stop by isolation and isolation in the light of this widespread spread, which, of course, is causing problems in all our medical institutions, especially in the Land Hospital, such as illuminators. A senator crossed. We changed the rules about isolation on Monday from seven to five days. My conversation with medical institutions has shown that this may be the most important tool we have today to control the spread. However, if you look at the overall picture, how much this mass limit and hours of opening restaurants, etc. have, how it affects the protection of health institutions. But I'm just saying right now, because we were just changing it now on Monday, that we should stay in isolation. That's my food. I can get into other things later, but this was the answer to the key point of the question, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. I just want to point out that we talk that sonar is like any other flu, but I tell you exactly as it is, it's not like any other flu. It affects people 50, 60, and over. I just know that by personal experience. It's been six weeks since I got this and I've never, not after any illness, been in the situation I'm in today, to have less than half of the energy I had before. That's why I'm worried about people who have underlying diseases and are my age and older. And that's what I want to get clear. Isolation, we have to hold on to it because I think it's crazy to take care of everything, just run away from the whole package. We also have to be careful, because the virus is mutating and the virus is passing through the border. There, too, we need to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We agree that we need to be careful to control the situation in this vast spread of infections and to look out for health institutions and nursing homes and prevent the most vulnerable groups from being similarly exposed to infection. That will remain our objective. At the same time, however, we must appeal to the responsibility of being careful. In simplicity, this is how to avoid transmission, with our vulnerable groups, the rule is to keep away and keep the mask in sensitive circumstances and to keep in regular contact with these delicate organizations. This is what we have to hold on to while we're going to get those decontaminations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u35	President. On June 12, 2019, this was adopted at the Children's Action Programme. Everyone voted with a plan that costed more than 1.2 billion dollars. True, I find only about 800 million in budget since then. The plan even turned. on cooperation and overall vision of children's affairs, early intervention and preventive measures. BUGL's staff came to a social committee meeting this week and introduced their activities and unacceptable waiting time for treatment, with a mean waiting period of about seven and a half months, and an increase in the acute situation in Covid which adversely affects that waiting list. The staff's main messages to us were to promote preventive measures. This year's projection schedule is now only completed, 2019,2022, and it is conclusive to show that not all of the projects specified in that program are being completed. It's, for example. Not even the first shovel punctured at a new treatment center in Garden Town yet. It is even more interesting that a new program for child development is not in the Government Constitution. If a new budget is to be financed, it should be ready for spring so that it can be taken into account in financial schemes and in budgets for the next year. Based on this, vague budgets for the implementation of a projection programme, a new strategy is missing, and there is a number of emergency cases at BUGL, and a waiting list is extended, I ask: When can we expect the success of success? Is it this year, next year, five years from now? The minister must know this with sufficient precision so as to tell us right now: When do the terms of success and treatment at the first and second stages affect the fact that we do not really have to use the third steps?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this very good inquiry, and first of all, he says about the state of BUGL that it is unacceptable. By the end of the last term, we had already worked together, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, on the analysis of those issues and on the basis of a waiting list in general, and I and a new health minister have discussed how we proceed in this matter. I have full faith that it is possible to get a close hold of that matter, since this waiting period is totally unacceptable. With regard to the inquiry itself, which leads to new success laws and when it is going to be successful, that is correct. A senator's thought of success is to intervene earlier in order to reduce the third and third - degree resolutions. I must say, I am a very impatient man. The law went into effect on January 1, and I would like for us to make it all count one, two, and three. It's funding to make a country partner, part of the budget goes to rural society and parts to state, contracts related to it are over. It has been completed and just completed, so it runs to the countryside. How important it is to have discussions with the school, the play - school system, and high school! We've started to discuss it very hard now with the people in it, but clearly, the Covid epidemic has a significant effect because there's not much else in the school system than it's been able to sort things out day by day because of the meeting restrictions. My expectations are that this year we begin to see certain results in breaking down walls quickly and offering first and second choice. But we need to be aware that it will take this change, which needs to reach into all the smells of service to young people, three to five years to achieve its full success and that it was the goal and scope of the bill when it was approved here last spring. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u37	President. Thank you for your clear answers. This year we are expected to start seeing some reaction, and in three to five years full induction will take place. The problem I see, and the reason I'm asking is that the current strategy did not run out. It will inevitably delay everything else in the process, all the other induction. As in the situation today, a child who feels unwell needs to wait for more than seven months for help. In the processing process, a minister strongly stressed the savings required to take children early, before the problem became too big, so that we would not need a third - degree resort, much to which the child has come to an extremely harmful place at that time. We have problems with specific design in these measures, so, after all, how can a minister convince us that the induction will be completed in three or five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator when he is wondering how to convince the U.S. Congress to complete the induction. I think you can do that by cooperating with the council. Part of the legislation is choosing a member of the Parliamentary Committee to cooperate with the Ministry to the induction so that we will do everything we can to complete the induction. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator says there is a heavy end, which is a third resort today and we need to go to it soon, i.e. An emergency problem in individual institutions, BUGL and others, but also in the way we are going to see the options at the third level. We need to reorganize them all. We started this work at the end of our last term and continue it now because there is no conversation there. It is often so that a child who is in one place will be affected in several other places. So legislation will also help the third end of the talk. Therefore, all emphasis must be made on the induction of this legislation, and it must be introduced by the New Ministry of Education and Children's Department of Children's Department of Education. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the exchange of comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u39	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Minister of state who is also vice president of the Independence Party. I made yesterday's publicity at the council's office the fact that it's only five months since the Independence Party was drumming all over society that we now have the lowest interest in history. It was all about; the lowest interest in history. Nowhere did the account show that they would rise again and that much if we consider the historical context. Now it's got the highest. In the context that Iceland's management interest rates are certainly low now in historical terms. In this context, I would like to mention that low interest rates in modern history are not meant to be the norm. It is economic ambition to claim it. Rather, we need to focus on the growing, much lower, neighboring countries. There was an interview with a young man yesterday, Daníel Ingi Sigfússon, who is studying and also works in a coffee shop. His loan is rising about 30,000 bucks. last month for the growth of the Black Bank's steering height last night. He says: "I knew that my first few months would be a little harsher than the next. Then I just assumed that all forecasts and all experts would be so fine. I thought: Okay, this won't raise much, I'll manage a bit of an increase. Spain tells us that this year's growth will increase even more, and I want to ask the highest. The minister and replacement of the Independence Party whether he is responsible when it comes to the situation of these people and whether he can afford this young man and those who are in the same position, but there are thousands in the community at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u40	Mr. President. Yeah, interest went up yesterday. I don't think it's ambitious to continue to think that there are growths in Icelandic society in historically low levels, in historical terms, despite their rise. I think it's very important that we discuss here what affects the interest level in the country, and I feel that we do not discuss it enough or that things are put in context. Hv. A senator speaks of this growth, their influence on the position of which the government's budget is part, pay development is part of it, and the housing market and its supply is part of it. Of course, the largest rural population in the country has a major impact on the provision of housing markets and the city of Reykjavík. Realistically, there are some things we can reason on, but providing for housing is not enough. The factors that are most likely to affect growth must be considered. This refers to growth and inflation, the effects on people today who have housing, and their loans rise. We will also need to maintain the advantage of acquired persons who have already been able to fit into the house market. The situation has likely improved by about 1,000 billion, or approximately, while we are talking about 500 billion on the other side regarding the effects on inflation and growth. So I'm actually more worried about people who need to get into the housing market. [[The president calls.]] In this area, we have spoken very clearly and have a good story to tell by means of the arrangements that have been taken to make it easier for them to get into the house market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u41	A respectable president. Of course it went as you expected. As growth decreases, it is due to independence, but when growth increases, it is to blame for something else. This category seems specialized in not knowing its responsibility for the economy. It is economic ambition to tell people who are looking at tens of thousands of dollars increase in their housing costs each month, that there are little interest in history. It is ambitious because, as I have said before, we should aim for other lands around us. Then I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister and Deputy Form of the Independence Party of what the head of the Party held here at the General Assembly during the dawns, could be placed in such a way here in Iceland that growth would normally be the same as that of neighboring countries. The party has been in the government almost all over the Republic period, now uninterrupted by the 2013 economic regime. [[The president calls.]] For this dream to come true, how long will it have to be in the government and control the nation's economics? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u42	Mr. President. Yes, I find it quite clear that the head of the Independence Party and the secretary of finance of the past few years has appreciated the high and clear mention that we should, of course, make it our goal to be in contact with the North countries when it comes to growth. There are certain underlying factors that have the most impact and are responsible for the government of a very large sector and a sitting financial and economic minister and the head of the Independence Party has put emphasis on this aspect from 2013 onward. It is because of what has happened in recent years that we have had the lowest growth in history. That's it. As we look at the increase last night, which was somewhat anticipated, we also know why this growth is taking place. There are in part decisions we make here that can, of course, affect this and our conversation with the labour market partners in an indirect way and actions that are quite consistent with a dress interview. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's also a reward development, and that may also be the difference between Iceland and the countries around us, the work market model here is not comparable to what is there. [[The president calls.]] There's a huge part of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u43	V.E.G. President. Edomaretrias, known as endors, are a disease that is believed to afflict one in ten women. Lately, interviews with women with endometris have been made, and now the last time in the news class of SpV was interviewing a woman who was diagnosed with English when she was 28 years old. The woman had been in pain since she was 14 years old. This is a disease caused by the number of endometrial cells found in various parts of the body that respond to monthly hormonal changes in the female body, which can cause severe pain. This can lead to a woman's inability to perform daily activities and may even not be able to become pregnant. There has been a lack of service in this country in women with this disease, but the clinical situation has recently responded to their deficiency and has recently begun to offer treatments for the treatment of endothelium. Five percent of women are already listed for surgery within the next month, but they have to pay for the procedure themselves. The waiting period after the diagnosis and operation of the Hospital is extremely long and thus unacceptable. It is clear that the Landskeeper is unable to handle this assignment. Therefore, all resources that are offered must be used. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not acceptable for Ministers to respond through the development of the Agency service while the National Relations cannot handle this project and get contracts between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Clinical so that women can get their way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u44	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for bringing up this complex painful disease. She went well over him here and the position upstairs. To address the question, whether a minister is capable of responding to the situation and looking to the specialised service now in the clinical setting, which is an expert with experience and knowledge of such measures as the solution to this difficult disease, I have already called for information on the position of the Land Hospital team. In 2017 a cross-cutting team specialised for endometrial migration was initiated. At any given time, there are approximately 60◯70 patients treated with active therapy for endometrial migration in the walking units of different therapeutic agents. The biggest surprise for me, this is about 10% of women, is how many diseases are and how much we have come to find solutions. How glad we are, then, that there is yet another solution! We've already started this job. I have worked to speed up this solution in cooperation with the Land Hospital team so that the list of waitings that has been collected can be processed, according to the total number of waiting lists in January 49 patients. I hope that the next few days will be the day when this treatment will be available.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u45	V.E.G. President. I'm very happy to hear that work has started, but we need to have quick hands. It is clear that already there is a clinical expert and to bridge this gap, it might be preferable to take to the level of rock found there. I'd like to point out in this connection that women have been in complete uncertainty for a long time because of cervical screening, samples and analyses that travel virtually around the world. So that's enough, I'd like to say, though this is not added. Certainly, it is good for a Lands Hospital to start working on a waiting list, but isn't it enough to download to the Land Hospital? That is why, once again, I point out my question: Is it possible to bridge the gap and then establish this clinical action list with the creation of a contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question, and I continue to respond to these treatments and treatments that the clinical and specialist there can offer. There are two ways, to work with the hospital, so this waiting list and this treatment is working together, what the team is doing there, and then the hospital can save that operation, and then we'll go to the waiting list in the right order. The other way is through health insurance, now there are five women who have sought treatment abroad and who have obtained the solution that health insurance simply negotiates this service. Then we may not be just as specific with the wait list. But this work has already begun, and this conversation has begun with this specialist and team, and I have emphasized the speed of establishing these contracts so that the patients will get their way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u47	A respectable president. I'm coming up here because in the President's conference board earlier, President got some questions that he didn't answer. So I'd like to bring them back in the hope of being the highest. The president will answer any questions as well as any. The senators assigned him to the conference board earlier. V.E.G. The president has been asked how seriously he views the matter of not giving up the requested data to a letter from the Council's Law of 51rd. Congress and how it touches this matter. And so has the highest. The president was repeatedly asked to take advantage of the fact that the council is receiving the data it should receive, not just in accordance with Article 51. Rather, according to a clear legal arrangement, according to Article 6. Act of citizen's rights. So I have a question for you: What's going to happen? Mr President to make sure that U.S. National Institutes of Iceland and, in fact, Ministers are doing the law and will of the Generals? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u48	The president intends to continue talking to people in order to find a solution to the issues discussed here and will request the memo mentioned in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister for coming up to this discussion about electricity and their status. It has not missed any discussion of the impending energy crisis in the last weeks and indeed a month. So I would like to ask: Who does the minister consider the most practical way to cope, especially for a short period of time? The director of national activations says that a 50% higher is needed than has already been, and points out that the next ten years are about 300 megahours in close proximity to four specific tasks. We're getting reports that limited energy is reduced all over the country, normal when energy is not enough. It causes, as we know, energy production through oil burns with the resulting environmental impacts. There are chapters to indicate that there is a greater concern about greenhouse gas emissions than on a table. At the same time, the head of energy for an interview in mid - January, with the permission of a president, says that future electricity will actually go into energy exchange in the future. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what these words of energy manager mean in his opinion. This means that energy exchanges, not e.g., will be controlled. to a job structure that didn't fall directly under energy change targets? Today is the highest measure. Minister for Framework and I'm glad it has begun early, which is much sooner than the Government Constitution expected. It is submitted unchanged since the last term. V.E.G. In a recent discussion at the council, the minister of the law said that it was looked for a replacement from a waiting party. The proposed schedule, which will be given below, does not mean. So I must ask: The representatives of the majority of the EEA and Transport Committees have been asked to make these changes, i.e. to convert the activation options from a waiting party, and then the possible appearance from moving some of the protective groups to a waiting party as well? It has to be said that there is a very different effect of moving the activation option from a waiting category to make a protection party. I'd like to pray to the highest. A minister to establish where the minister considers an opportunity for increased electricity production to exist for the next ten years, because it is a critical point and a timeline in this project all about the energy exchange, as job development can be carried out in an unpredictable way, and then we have to make a requirement for the distribution of electricity systems to become the most efficient energy in the shortest of time. I also mention this in view of the director of national activation, it will probably take approximately 20 years before the initial activations, which are about to arrive at the drawing table, start producing electricity on the distribution system, if all is possible. I would also like to open up a discussion about what government estimates are about the lost opportunities to work around the country in the light of limited energy and problems with delivery in certain areas of the country, such as the Eyjafjörður, Snæfellsnes, and the West, for example. Because, of course, it is extremely difficult for many of the rural areas to be in the system's delivery capacity not to be present for a job structure to occur, since it will be most efficient if emissions of electricity were not an independent problem. Then I want to pray to the highest. Minister to establish it here in this discussion, although it lies in energy forecasts and has been installed elsewhere, I feel that this is the way it matters in the context of the parts, what the government's assessment of the development of the total energy needs of the country to the year 2040, which is the year set by the government as the goal for Iceland to become a non-carbon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ergthir Ólason for bringing up this vital issue of energy. I'll try to answer the questions in that order. I got them delivered in this short story. With Icelanders, we have so much resources, including in the form of a power of water and an aquifers, which we have benefited from. Today, the situation is that electronic energy is dwindling. It even appeared. in that because of the bad water years, producers cannot deliver the sources of electricity to those who have purchased less energy than they need. It should be made clear that it is electrical energy at the expense of a poor water supply. In all cases, there is a backup source in this system or in these users. Thus, the use of renewable green electricity from energy is not really energy shortage. It is therefore reduced to contaminated oil solutions, which are unfortunate both because of higher costs and even less due to climate change. Energy agencies have estimated the electrical demand for telecommunications on less energy, between February and May 2022, in agreement with telecommunications. Not an estimated electricity demand of 51 GW, which represents some 5,200 tons of oil. Additional carbon dioxide emissions in Iceland will result in an additional 1,5500 tons just over the three months, about 2% of all oil emissions in Iceland 2020. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Organization is working on many projects to address energy challenges. For one thing, I have started working with a green book, which summarises energy positions and challenges with reference to the focus of the government's policy on climate. A team has been appointed to submit guidelines in the Regulation on adequate electrical security and power rights and government resources in order to ensure the supply of electricity and a visualisation of a global market. The workgroup's proposal for energy security at the pooled market is available and considered. At the same time, in my Ministry, the project is responsible for the projection of the current council. These are the bill of a change in the protection and energy efficiency programme, due to technology for agglomeration of already operating activations, and the bill for change in house - to - house subsidies, which is about the simpleness of the funding system due to subsidies of the product pump subsidies. This will work on a change in the Regulation on the implementation of an electronic energy layer which should co-operate the environment of the smaller activation provider. Other factors might be noted: The government has largely raised funds for Energy Fund and aims to keep heat pumping in one of the focus areas immediately to the next distribution and also to use lower temperatures, which are especially colder by telecommunications. In January, an energy agency directed recommendations for land activation that their monthly sale into a global market was directed to the general public. At the same time, the Agency has provided proposals for the development of laws to better control the public's energy security. Data support has been made to improve the troposphere, improve monitoring, and facilitate long-term decision-making. The preparation of new activation options takes time, as we know it, and has a number of obstacles to such structure over the past few years. It is less expensive and more efficient and can be done more quickly by using existing activations better and improving the transport system. That is why I have started working on a bill design to facilitate the growth of activations that are already under operation. There are many projects on the Landsnet implementation programme that can improve transport ability between land areas, but these can improve the situation and balance stress when there is a difference in production due to local weather effects. The transport capacity of the current population is 130 MW, or about 4% of the system's updated capacity. Landsnet has a plan to increase this ability to 10% with five lines that have changed in the process. Thus, transport systems and distribution systems must be strengthened so that they can receive new activation options such as wind and small activation. Various activation options are in the new frame plan and I intend to allow myself, because of the short talk period assigned to me here, to keep the discussion on that subject and where the opportunities are for electricity production until the next session. The demand for green energy is enormous and will only increase and therefore impossible to answer the question with any certainty which opportunity has been lost because there is no more energy to be given. To answer the last question, why? In terms of the development of the total energy demand of the country, the energy forecasts of the Power Institute can be viewed as a theme film known as the Green Future. The point is: I've started a huge task to map the power system's position and the challenges ahead. I'll put in prime products to pay for the better use of existing activations, the simple funding system on heat pumps, and the energy reserve has been enhanced. I strive to reach our goals in climate. In this struggle, energy is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u51	V.E.G. President. There's no power shortage in Iceland. But it's beyond the demand for green energy, and it's only going to grow. Renewable energy is one of the most valuable products on the market and is of limited quality. In a closed electrical system like ours, poor water years have a major impact on the supply. There have been a decline, and, as we have seen, according to the electrical agreements made. The energy is bought at a lower price so that it can be cut at such times. It is the business decision of the companies that such agreements make to take this risk of failure. But it is also thought - provoking and very big task to buy limited energy to warm up houses on the land. There must be intervention, and this is where governments need to put it in such a way that heat is not up to less energy. The minister will be talking about the energy exchange. Has the government charted this exchange of energy? The minister mentioned the transport system. We know that it will take at least a decade to finish it so that the northern settlement will return what needs to be returned. Meanwhile, there is a loss of transport in the system and a variety of other necks of bottle. In fact, the Minister of the Interior has suggested that he wants to change organizational affairs so that lines can be changed in ways other than the need to pass through the organizational authority of every member of the community. I'd love to hear the Minister's position on this, tops. President. The energy needs to be adjusted. You need to put the public and normal companies first. It's the big deal. It's on the market. The price of this valuable product must be paid by the industry, and it is in the hands of the government to ensure the public's electrical safety in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u52	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank someone who's going to start this discussion on this very important subject. And I'd like to thank the Minister for a very clear speech earlier. Let's look to the future and, yes, the situation is the way it is today, we just have to deal with it. But our future project on electricity and entering a green future is staggering, and we are going to do so very much. In my mind, we need to activate more, whether in the earth's heat, harness the energy in the wind, or take in new activations, minors, and even use the existing activations. But it is not enough to activate, we also need to get the energy in place, and there we have a lot of work to do. There was an interesting meeting that we had yesterday, the Assembly of the Agency, with a national network about the process that will begin when a new line has to be established. The average is, like, seven years in a normal process, which means that it's only a two-year construction period. So it needs five years in organizational matters, and we all know that discussion -- there also need a song, I would say, a respectable president, and handle those matters. Yes, a green future confronts us, but in order for it to become a reality, we need to clean up our work, and we need to be firm in our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. Ólason For this discussion and for the highest. We have a climate minister for your presence. There's an impending lack of energy. My lack of energy is caused by a virus. I haven't reached the power since I had the virus blessed. But what's the government's excuse for the lack of energy? Is that the climate issue? If it is climate, are we not doing exactly the opposite of what we should be doing? We're burning oil because we don't have any energy. There's got to be a bit of ramburd. At the same time, we're talking about selling energy charcoal to the waste, so they can do more damage. But what is the solution? I don't quite have it, but I was in the Faeroe Islands not so long ago, and they're trying to activate the tides. Is that what we're looking at? Are we keeping track of what Receptions are doing? I'm not sure. That's at least something we can look at. I'm a little worried about other matters, and there's energy available and how we've screwed it up through the EU and EU energy package. I hope we don't continue to screw up even more there because, suddenly, you wake up one day when you're paying special for distribution. Then there are eight or ten companies, intermediate companies, who are going to sell you energy, and if a person is not careful about choosing a company, it will be twice as much cost and sent to someone who is simply destructive of energy. We need to produce more energy, and we need to start producing and establishing greenhouses so we can become self-sustained in food production. [[The president calls.]] I really hope we're going to solve these energy issues so we don't have to burn oil, let alone sell it to nuclear plants and our coal combustures of pure energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u54	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the advocate for taking the initiative in this discussion. In the next 20 years, it is a necessary goal to replace fossil fuels in the Icelandic economy. There's no small project. In 2018, for example, Icelanders used a million tons of oil, or 14 of oil, per person in the country. There's oil on ships and equipment, gasoline on cars and planes, the whole thing. Just imagine if January 1st of every year a truck came and dumped it in your yard, where you would set fire to seven and a half gallons every day for the entire year. This energy needs to be replaced by energy not destroying the environment and there's nothing more important in me about the environment. But it is also economically important to attack this project, for the money for this seven-and-a-half quarts that we set on fire in a garden will be put on the Norwegian oil reserve. That's why I think it's important that we think about how corporate development will take place that will drain fuel on the planes and the ships. It's not my place to ask for the capitalists to come down here and make it up, and then make all the money. These companies need to be owned by the government, which gives interest to the government funds. The energy needed to replace the oil needs to exist, and therefore long-term policy barriers need to be maintained. It must not be all arranged for some other form of dogma to take place in the market. It just needs an old-fashioned plan-making, a five- and-ten-year plan. We need a schedule of how we will stop lighting oil in a garden to maintain the quality of life we want.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u55	Mr. President. Energy issues are aglow, said the highest. Minister here. How can it be a reflection of the energy of a nation that produces more energy for every human child than any nation in the world? There is no shortage of energy in this country but a lack of priorities and perspective with governments. I'm afraid that the priorities and future vision will not improve at the Department of Melancholy, which the government made for these matters by bringing together the environment, climate and energy to one Ministry that will carry all the sides of the die and, as indicated by all that comes from the Minister, use the climate problem as an excuse for the old, poor bottomwork policy of the Kálegans in the government. Here it was cited that the director of national activation expected that this 50% would be applied to the world record we already have in activation. To obtain that number, growth in industry must continue, and growth in general use needs to be continued. At some point, as a community, we need to sit down and ask: "Who do we want to be? Because there is no future. Not only is it possible to pump inexpensive energy into a major industry but it is the amazing situation that the public in many parts of the country need to burn oil to warm their houses. As an example of the lack of energy, let's just remember that Northerns received an extra 21 MW last year, that was a new agreement with Verne at 20 MW last year, and a 10-520 MW went to Atnorth last year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There was no shortage of energy in the companies when they received energy a year ago. [[The president calls.]] Why should he be now unless they have a friend in the Ministry to continue driving matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u56	The president reminds us of a limited talk period in a special discussion. Each speaker has only 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u57	Mr. President. I thank both advocates and Ministers for being in this discussion today. I have to say, first, that every dot of the advocates deserves a special discussion. I believe that I am not the only senator who intends to take advantage of a discussion about the box here later today to review those points. But I'd like to focus on the current position in view of the news that national inactivation had to resort to a decrease in those who have purchased energy under such contracts. I think we're all aware that it's not the agreements that are such, these poor contracts, which are the problem. This is a natural arrangement, a way to make good use of the energy resource, especially while we have not mastered how we use the wind power to play back when contracting in the water. The government's challenge, the project, must primarily be to ensure that inhabitants of rural society in so - called cold areas who rely on oil as reserves, i.e. In addition to this limitation agreement, the aquifers are responsible for adapting their production to the position when water supply is down and demand is at the highest level. Impliciting land activation is only about 3% of the energy produced and I know they also reach these big users, and of course it's no joke. There's no joke to the melts now that the situation on the fur is the way it is. There's no joke to the studios when the studio's on the highest level. However, it must be in the eyes of the government's extra items in the big film that is involved in ensuring all the inhabitants of the country's green energy, safe energy. So I want to discuss the responsibility of the government here, how it's done. What would be the cost of ensuring that so - called rural areas could purchase priorities? We're now subsidizing energy to homes, but it's not subsidized to rural society. What would be the cost of such a arrangement? Is that possible? And what are the costs of not doing so, with the occasional poor quality of life for these people and the costs of being run on the earth when we can do this differently? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u58	Madam President. I thank the members of Congress, and the Ministers in particular, who have participated in this discussion. I would like to include some of the points that have been discussed in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddo's daughter made it clear that there was no shortage of energy in the country. Rather, there was a demand for green energy and beyond the demand for green energy. But I want to, and what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came on the same page, referring to a meeting with the director of national activation from January 15th, where the director was asked on the Kingdom News: Do we have enough energy for energy change? With the president's permission, the president's answer was: No, we don't. Then there was an explanation. We must look at things their way. Of course, it is not a lack of energy. With this approach, we are saying that we're just going to accept using fossil fuels or whatever other means are needed to reach our goal in terms of energy demand. I don't see it as if there's a government message, so I think it's so important that people know where they need to go and how they're going to get there, and hopefully they're gonna come up with a discussion about a frame plan later. Maybe one more thing before my time is up. There's been a little talk about the distribution system. It has been an eternity of puzzle march, and those who set the environment rule of their time have certainly not imagined that the system would be so reenacted that the seven - year total series of lines would take five years to be organized and two to action time, such as water. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson came in earlier. We have to fix this. As long as we don't fix this, we're not going to be able to get on with this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u59	Madam President. We'll discuss here an enormously important subject, and I may consider this a little warm-up for the discussion below, which has to do with the frame 3 and a lot of discussion that we're about to do today. It is possible to do much of this, and time is short today. We've only talked about electricity transport today, okay? Councilmen have been involved only in that matter. Then I'd like to direct the members of the Parliament that a few days ago, perhaps a week or two ago, Hörður Arnarson, president of the Land Isactivation, pointed out that if there was a proper transport system of electricity in the country that connected the north and the south, we would not be in this discussion right now. [[Taken out on: right.]] This may be the biggest problem, such as the Eyjafjörður, from where I come, where my situation has been inconspicuous for over 20 years that has prevented all careers, any possible projects in the area, and that has kept everything in hell for 20 years. In this context it is often said that a hot dog car on the hiking street could not be connected. About 50 years ago, when founded in the settlement, she was able to transport some 203/425% of the power force in the country. This rate is today 3◯4%. This is a major problem in the Icelandic electronic system for all efficiency. It also prevents certain benefits from being activated because of the poor conditions involved in the transport systems of electricity, the kind of restrictions that have been placed on it, and the ability to strengthen it. Now the situation changes; after the season of the Cruces Line 3 was put into use last summer and excitedly in August, i.e. From the River Valley and to the Cruces, and you when Holasannd line 3 is connected to Akureyri this summer, the situation on the north side changes, and there's a complete line 3. This may be dissolved with a Mixed Line 3 perhaps over the next five years. [[The president calls.]] Then we still have the whole Westland and the link south from the carburettive and Hourtuunga and that area under the Hagland. [[The president calls.]] It could be a 10-115-year-old, and let's talk about it today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u60	Madam President. A normal condition is a lack of electricity. Electric energy is a resource and is not inexhaustible. Why do I allow myself to say this? Yes, because the demand for electricity can be inexhaustible. Therefore, we must prioritise our energy distribution, and the government must be the main concern for the public in the country. During the days, we received reports that because the energy farm of the West buys so-called limited energy for the public, which is just not available today, energy will now need to burn oil equivalent to ten years of average, with considerable expense for the public in these cold areas. When it became clear, I asked myself, " What is the point of the energy industry's choosing to purchase less efficient energy for the public, not for priority energy? ' The answer is simple. Yes, because there is nothing else in the business model. The more cheap energy is cut, so operators take the risk that they do not have to limit their energy. And who's gonna bite it on? Of course, the public. The government, and we as lawgivers, must respond immediately. We both have to set clear laws that we can't negotiate reduced energy for house warming and electric fuel to the public in the country so that our home does not land at high energy costs without notice. Second, governments have to arrange for the enterprises that supply energy into these cold areas so that the public will not be repeatedly affected by energy shortages. I'm the highest. Minister to act on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u61	A respectable president. The country's energy shortages are discussed, and Ministers say that measures need to be taken, as well as that of the president of the Landsnet and the director of the European Commission, who has warned of the lack of energy and wants the people to fuel electricity. I don't really understand that this situation is the case in Iceland where there is never to be a lack of electricity. Something or some have failed in an incredible way. It should be relatively easy to predict energy use and what energy sources need to be used, and you wonder why these unseen problems have not been dealt with and what the responsibility of those who control these issues is not. Despite knowing that the production system was approaching its upper limit of endurance, Land induction made contracts with the data plant to sell electricity to them. Data plants are a tremendous amount of energy. How can such agreements be made when a lack of electricity is predictable? The nation was built up as a nation with promises of low electricity prices forever. How does sale of Landing on the authority to the electricity store fit in with this goal? And when was this company's goal changed? Maybe there's less trouble with teaching, but I don't remember a discussion about the decision that land activation was just an agent of an electronic energy dealer, which includes it. This means that a whole community, such as a community, is a community. A Western island must buy electrical energy and distribution through the intermediate, which, at the same time, increases the cost of electricity. When did a company become like, for example... N1 of Iceland's major electrical suppliers? Is there any law in preparation at the Ministry to ensure that public interest is always involved in electrical exchanges, that homes are always protected enough electricity, and that they have priorities when shortage occurs, and that homes are not game-compliant markets that can raise prices?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u62	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying a great deal of gratitude for this talk about the electronics, which is extremely urgent and I'd like to celebrate it every time we discuss it at the General Assembly of Iceland. I'd also like to thank a minister for his passage earlier, which was good and beneficial. It is clear that we are on our way to energy exchange, and we need to take into account the climate targets set by the current government and all of us, I think, who are in this room, at least most of the time, agree on the need to react. What I really want to do is that my subject here is to celebrate the work that has been started in the Ministry on this green book planned to be published in the near future, simply because the information we receive is very misleading as to whether there is a lack of energy in this country or here is enough energy. Nationalization has produced three scenarios for this matter; the same condition, the green future, and the superintendents. Well, it's clear that based on that projection, energy is missing, if we're looking at the green route and clearly considerable if you're looking at big users. I also wanted to say in this brief period of time, because this has been a talk about what you can do, that our fine electrical systems are heavy in the vats. Therefore, I urge those with organizational authority to check whether it is possible to simplify and speed it up, as well as to look at the possibilities of telecommunications that I think would be a very useful way to deal quickly with the situation in many places today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to do good things in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergthir Ólason for taking the initiative in this discussion of electrical energy and at the highest level. Minister for his speech. That I know we need to know what we need energy and how much. Then we need to agree on what we are going to focus our energy on. My understanding is that, in fact, there is no wish to take on big, active action soon, and it is well. However, the demand is not missing, as we have seen today. We are rich in renewable energy, but they are not infinite. There is no waste of an abundance. We need to make better use of the energy already produced in the system, save and reduce loss. We have the advantage of getting more power out of existing activations and have the highest power. A minister proclaimed changes in the legislation to improve the efficiency of the element, and that's a good thing. There is one way to be effective in these substances. Finally, when additional energy needs to be used, it is important to do so under the guidance of nature's interests. We must walk through the resource with respect, weigh other important factors, although energy exchange is certainly important and inevitable. That's why we're all here, I think, agree here. With other interests, I have natural values, the wealth of unmoved nature, to form in the form of currency, for the last 43% of the rest of Europe is to be found here. Then there is the importance of reconciliation. The disunition of society that history tells us to follow the dramatic activation efforts of society does not contribute to the prosperity of society, and we cannot overlook it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u64	President. I'd like to discuss just the areas of the Power Agency's films on energy development in the next few years. There are three stage photos. It is a scene of the same state of state or of ongoing evolution, a scene of a green future, and a scene of big industrial policy. I would like to ask, " Who really is the government's policy? ' Maintaining the current size of industry, e.g. and are they more motivated to make progress elsewhere? Is it reducing the big part of energy use right now? We're in 80485 percent, something like that, with the big industrial policy, the 80 percent of the world's population. Isn't that too much? If we remember the share there, there's a lot of energy for all kinds of progress, just for a green future. That's when no more of the continuum transfunctioners are needed. So the answer to what government policy is is an important answer to the future and how we handle the next issues here on the agenda. At present, by being 80% dependent on the aluminum to sell our energy, we're just the tenants of the big industry. There's nothing more complicated than that. Government policies are needed to change that. There is something else that uses large amounts of energy, that is, the electrical mint industry that is digging indefinitely for electric coins, including Bitcoin, completely useless. It's completely pointless, especially because there's a difference. Bitcoin is one, and there are other types of electrical coins that use up to 7,000 times less energy for each entry. There are also policies. Are we really going to use our energy to support the Bitcoin that wastes energy with Jordan, a whole small kingdom in fast structure? It's crazy. If we are going to be supportive of electrical change in a different way, we should focus on the electrical coins that use energy in a practical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u65	A respectable president. I just want to get right into the political responsibility. Of course, the independent party has been in control of the energy issues for nine years and there is the political responsibility, for home, and for the national community, for a long time have not been able to walk enough reliable energy, the whole region has not secured access to electrical energy in accordance with need. It's interesting that, despite the use of homes in the country, I understand, about 5% of the electricity is still happening in certain areas. But the big picture is that it is the short - term challenge we are looking at and the long - term challenge. The short - term ice is caused by three factors, all of which appear at the same time; there was not enough water to reach the loin for two years; therefore, there is not enough supply. Every major user in the country, such as the plant, is in full circulation, and demand is therefore unusually high when unusual amounts of fur appear. So this short-term porridge is not connected to my mind if it needs to be activated more or no more. It would be absurd to plan on building a system that should handle a situation or a year's journey that would not reflect the usual need. But this crisis in my mind clearly shows how serious the transport system is, how weak it is. We can see the effects in specific geographical areas, e.g. Like on the West, and I think it's a monster. There's a problem with the system being sick, and there's a problem with not setting priorities for the households. It's the responsibility of the government not to get the energy to where it needs to be made. The long-term challenge in my mind has to do with the energy exchange itself, that we have enough energy for it. We know that in the next 18 years, we will be the first nations to be completely rid of fossil fuels. This can be achieved, but a clear ideologies need to be reached. The responsibility of the party needs to be explained. The market game rules need to be updated and to make sure that the system works regardless of its annual tours and fluctuations. Unfortunately, the plan on the part of the government is completely lacking. [[The president calls.]] There is no way that the target of the government's waste of time is possible, and this government waste of time is a serious threat to energy exchange targets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u66	Madam President. I would like to thank you again to those who have participated in the discussion. I would like to use this final talk to discuss organizational matters and the transportation system. During the last assembly, a bill named bill was provided for a change in organizational law. It included permission to operate a specific infrastructure, which covers areas across rural boundaries to facilitate and speed up the development of electrical transport systems. The matter came to the fore during the last assembly. It was estimated that it would be submitted according to a Constitution in January, but now we are approaching mid - February. Of course, the case has been refurbished, and if there were a meaning behind what the government says in these matters, this case would have come up and done at the end of the day. Environmental and Transport Committee. This case is being held in charge of the highest order. Inga son of Jonon, the secretary of the wood, the Sigurður of Jóhannsson. The reason I mention this is that it all needs to be played together, and if we don't get to the point where we can get the line tunes going, we'll be in this problem of a predictable future. That's why, just like the highest. The energy and environment minister responded rapidly when they found out how late the plan was to be submitted; it is here and will be measured today, and it is well, then it will be the highest. Web Minister to present this bill because this is a key key to getting on with the structure of the transport system. While this game is missing into the overall picture, there is a gap in the fact that it is a real will to bring electricity transport systems to a better source than at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to take this opportunity to say thank you again, please. paritaprevir The three - month - old Ólason and the members of the council who participated in this important discussion of matters that we now discuss in one or another, as follows. I feel that the discussion is developing in a good way at the Generals, and it's very important. I think we're going deeper, which is extremely important in a case like this. Just so they say, 'cause this is what they said. paritaprevir Stefánsson's coach thought that this discussion was a bit confusing, I think he used those words, I just agree. Senator. That is why, as he mentioned, this work of green books is being done. The Green Book is designed to enable us to have as accessible as possible information on what we are considering and to make decisions as soon as possible, whether it is the transport system that many are carrying. Senators here have been referring to, or how much energy we need in the energy exchange. It is true that there is no other indication but that there will be an endless demand for green energy, so we must always have policy and priorities. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason specifically asked what the energy editor meant when he was talking about these matters, i.e. the importance of setting priorities for homes. Simply put, it is a goal to make a circle around them. If it were always the highest bidder who would buy the energy, it is unlikely that it would be home in the country. People are willing to pay very high prices, and different people pay very high price for their energy, and we don't want to see these things standing so that those people who are supposed to enjoy their energy exchanges don't get to enjoy them the way we've been allowed to do so far. I thought why. paritaprevir When Kári Gautason took out the assignment, he brings in an excellent comparison; seven and a half gallons of oil we're burning, that I think, every day. This is the job. We're gonna take this off. This is the climate project. We must face things the way they are. [[The president calls.]] We need to look to many factors, and here we have been referred to the importance and value of the vast, uninhabited vastness, that is one factor. [[The president calls.]] But there are a lot of things to look at, and that is our project, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u68	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis on a national protection and energy-efficient strategy. According to Article 3. track No. 48/2011, for a protection and energy efficiency programme, or a frame plan, shall be submitted at least every four years a proposal for a Parliamentary resolution on a national protection and efficiency programme. The programme shall, in accordance with the objectives of the above-mentioned legislation, evaluate the national protection and energy efficiency, and the economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. The proposal I recommend here is the final point at work at the 3rd point of a frame plan that has taken place since 2013 and concluded with a report of project management to the secretary's office in August 2016. This is the fourth motion proposed at the General Assembly, and it is my hope that the Council will be handled in a material way and administered in our midst. A Framework Programme covers land areas and activation options for which the project management of the programme has discussed and has installed a power source of 10 MW or more or more or a heat source of 50 MW or more. On January 14, 2013, the current strategy was adopted at the General Assembly, followed by the appointing of the current Environment and Resource Minister of the Project Management Board, starting with step 3. Now, I'm going to make an overview of the procedure for working on the 3rd stage of the framework plan. Project management can be divided into two parts. First, the primary treatment was eight activation options, which ended with the approval of the General Assembly 2015 that the activation option Idolization would be replaced by a waiting factor to the energy generation. Along with a discussion of the priming initiatives in priorities, the project management was able to deal with the activation options it was sent for a discussion in the third part of the Framework Programme. In line with the protection and energy efficiency laws and suggestions for the projection, the Governing Body appointed four professional groups to review activation plans, estimating the benefits of different factors that I better explain below. On April 16, 2014, groups 1 and 2 were appointed to serve in May 2014. Project 1 was designed to assess the activation and habitats in terms of nature, culture, landscapes, and so forth. Project 2 was to assess activation options and land areas in terms of alternatives to energy efficiency, such as tourism, outdoors, and agriculture. A group 3 was appointed on July 9, 2015, and in August 2015, they began to operate. His mission was to assess activation options and land areas in terms of their impact on society, such as impact on the social welfare of the population, social diversity, communication, solidarity, function, and other factors that the group considered desirable and possible to evaluate. A group 4 was then appointed on October 12, 2015. His mission was to deal with activation options and regions in terms of economic factors, mainly from the influence of individual sources or groups of national activation initiatives. As laid down in the Act on Protection and Energy Administrative Plans, the Project Management Board introduced their proposals and gave the institutions, the public and the stakeholders a chance to give reviews of the data available. This process of consultation lasted three weeks between March 31 and April 20, 2016. In this review, the project administration received 18 reviews from 15 sources. As a result of the review process, the project management carried out its proposal for the classification of activation initiatives that went into legal action of 12 weeks in consultation from May 11, 2016 to August 3, 2016. In the second consultation process, the project management received data from a total of 44 sources. The final proposals of a project administration were received by a minister of 26 August 2016. It presents a total of 82 activation options. As I mentioned at the outset, this is the fourth time the proposal for discussion is proposed and submitted unchanged from previous proposals. However, the proposal has been disproportionately made with the protection groups which have been peacefully declared in accordance with the laws on the Framework and agreed with the Generals, but the agreed benefits are all of the code of protection for the current programme. I'm not here to review rational support for the classification of each priming option. Rather, I'm here referring to a report of project management to Minister, specifically chapter 9.3 on page 20. 165. As a result, I want to reiterate the importance of a framework for government decision-making of great interests and issues that have caused great conflict in our community. You see, it is important not to lose sight because a structured program is designed to provide key lines to the government's strategy for protection and efficiency. So it should provide a complete picture, but it should not go to the point of having too detailed analysis of smaller issues. The suggestion is a compromise in order to get balance between the viewpoints of protection and the viewpoints. In addition, there is a large waiting group in which you can find priming options suggested to be considered better in the future. A respectable president. I feel that it is not right here in this discussion to deal in a very profound way with individual options made in the motion but rather with the senators to look at the bigger picture and the ambitious goals established by the government in the climate. True, I'm making a suggestion that has a long history, and I'm sure we all agree that we'd like things to be different, and certainly it's a complicated task to be accepted here into the council of this kind of proposal that has come to our own age. But, in my opinion, we have no choice, it's simply the subject that we have to deal with and solve together. The choices I faced when I entered the Ministry were two. First, start working on a 3rd stage changer. That would have taken a long time, and the decision would have always taken before the council, as the law expects. The other way, and the one I choose, is to put the matter into practice in the form that had been proposed and to assign the council to discuss the matter and to take a physical view of the proposal after the council treatment. Work on a stratospheric program is a ongoing task, thus allowing a conclusion about where to use and where to protect for all eternity, but it is a project that continues. I'd like to state that working at the fourth step of the frame plan is very good, and stage 5 is on its way, but the two stages will be integrated. The result of that work will be a general presentation, a review process, followed by the General Assembly for coverage and payment. The fact is, we haven't approved a frame plan in nine years. Since then, much has changed. We have to look at things in context. Governments have set ambitious goals in climate, knowledge of new possibilities for energy recovery, and new technologies have seen the day since working on the third stage of a series was started in 2013. For example, wind power was not a prominent option when it was discussed in the beginning of the work at the 3rd part of the framework. Today, the situation has changed completely regarding knowledge, technology, and the practicality of such options. But there are no roses without thorns, and this need to be discussed in particular. Environmental impact has to be considered, how such benefits affect tourism and how all the people in Iceland should benefit from the benefits that these solutions offer. The public must benefit from living in a green country. We should consider how the use of the natural resources of the wind will be paid. We must bear in mind that we are going to fulfill the ambitious goals established by the government in climate. This arrangement of interpretation is important in this process. It also provides guidance on priorities and on areas where energy should not work at at all, based on experts' assessment of the environmental protection levels of the areas under consideration and assessments of potential impact on other uses, such as tourism. It is reasonable that this should be taken into account by the council. Energy consumption can have a significant irreversible impact on the environment, and it is to be done with caution and to base on the best available information at any given time. The Government's Action Programme on Climate Change puts much emphasis on transport energy exchange. A specific energy exchange strategy has been set out to increase the share of national renewable energy sources at the cost of transport in 40% of 2030. To achieve this, it is necessary to ensure good cooperation between the government, the business and the public of the country. I've started work on a green book on the position and challenges of Iceland on energy. Nationalism is needed for energy exchange. The electricalisation of the transport system will be a third-large energy exchange by Icelanders. In the past, we have passed through the first energy exchange involving electricalisation of houses, homes, and employment through the efficiency of the hydropower, and later we passed through the other energy exchange when geity broke coal, oil, and other carbon - bound energy sources from house - to - house heating. About 50 years ago, oil crisis and the global market value of raw oil rose by 70% in a short period of time. At that time, Iceland and I were near the half of our Common Era, with the task of heating the land's home with earth's heat. An energy policy was developed with emphasis on reducing the import of oil and increasing the share of national energy sources, hydropowers and geothermals. As a result, action in earth's search began, and new heat - control plants were built in many parts of the country. The decision to engage in the heat - treatment industry at the time has brought the nation benefits that we still enjoy today. That global improvement is both economic, environmental, and social. The energy agency estimates that by using renewable energy for house - to - house heating and electricity production, we will avoid releasing about 20 million tons of CO 2 in 2020, compared to using fossil fuels. In comparison, we need to reduce emissions of 1 million tons of CO 2 by 2030 to achieve the Paris Convention's targets. In this context it can also be noted that total greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland in 2019 amounted to 4.7 million tons of CO2 in terms of free emissions from LULUCF, according to Iceland's 2021 emissions. Iceland is in a unique position to replace imported fossil fuels for domestic, economic, and clean energy sources in most areas of society, but it needs to answer to the question where to meet the energy needs for third energy exchanges. The experience of the Icelanders in energy exchange teaches us that they are both national and environmental benefits. History also teaches us that crisis will result in new opportunities. Like the oil crisis 50 years ago, major changes in our society will be the challenges that we face as a result of climate crisis will result in new solutions that will change our community for the better. There is ahead a national campaign and building work that has many opportunities for innovation associated with renewable energy sources. For example, the production of electrical fuels from heat, the production of methadone, and hydrogen from the products of the aquifers is an example of the future green projects. Also, we must never forget that we live in a rural country and if we are to tell the locals that they don't get green energy, we're telling people that they're not going to be involved in the green revolution that lies ahead. It doesn't make sense, Mr. Honorable President, in my opinion. It is important that governments support the prospective members of the struggle to find solutions to the climate problem. Technology, innovation, and creative thinking include opportunities that will lead to a changed and better world. I am convinced, and me and the Icelanders are not to leave behind and to activate the intelligence to create solutions for the future. A respectable president. So I've traced the main element of this proposal. If members of the Parliament want to change the proposal for this discussion, it is important to have the key principles of a protection and energy efficiency strategy guided by; to keep the balance between innovation and protection and to make peace with these social important issues for all of us. However, I would like to state that the solution to difficult subjects cannot be the putting of all options to a waiting party and postponing decisions about options that are ready for evaluation. We must have enough energy to achieve the future energy exchange and also be careful to protect the value of natural protection. Wait a minute. Councilmen should keep these views in mind the work that lies ahead. I suggest that the proposal be followed by a previous discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u69	Madam President. It's like the highest. Minister said things have changed a lot. It attracted my great interest, as I examined this frame plan, that nearly all the high - temperature areas of energy efficiency are in the Smokey Peninsula. As we all know, and even the whole world knows, there is again a period of volcanic activity on the Smokey Peninsula. It may have been okay when it was 200, 300, 400, or 500 years before a volcanic eruption was due to start again. But these options have been in there ever since they were first submitted, and that is why my question to the highest level. Whether it would have been a reason to postpone a discussion on this matter until the Ministry had updated these suggestions based on the safety profile of experts to see if the continuum transfunctioners can be installed above their heads in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. Rafn Ólafsson Ólafurson's Gólafson for the inquiry. I wasn't clear enough when I was going over the case earlier, but it's not like there's a threat to volcanic eruptions in Iceland and, unfortunately, we still can't map it safely. However, it is my opinion, because it will always be the end of the council that will make these decisions, that it is important for the council to receive this recommendation. Hv. A senator makes up one factor, but many other factors will be considered. Congress has all the authority to call for all the information it wants about these matters. But I can promise you what. Because even if this was a brand new suggestion, and even if it had been reviewed by the Ministry and made some transfers on it, there will always be concerns, there will always be questions. That's the way the council ought to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u71	Madam President. Yes, you may be able to carve the council, but it is harder to carve with Mother Nature. But now, in the energy mix, there are suggestions that vary from one country to another. Some include increasing growth in existing activations, while others are very sensitive to new areas. Now this framework plan has been submitted to remain unchanged for a total of eight times. Would it not have been better to give a small amount of work to achieve a national agreement on this important matter instead of beating your head against a stone? Now it's the highest. Minister of this office is new to me, so I'm asking if the highest level. A minister will copy his predecessors in beating his head at the stone or if he is willing to take up the discussion needed to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u72	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite know what to do with it. A senator is leaving now. Criticism has been, and I listen to it, that the council would not have enough time to discuss these matters. It is not good for one man, no matter who, to gain a national agreement on something. If we come to the conclusion, a respectable president, at what point. The general assembly is not the right place to discuss this matter and to try to make peace with them as it is a great shipwreck for democracy in the land. The democracy in this country is just a big wreck. I have full faith in what to do. A senator and others wrangled. Senators are well qualified to do so. Of course, I will participate in that discussion, and we will certainly have many conversations, both at committee meetings and elsewhere, on the basis of these issues. I have full faith that the Allied Council of Iceland is the right place to discuss these matters, call for different viewpoints, try to make peace, and at least agree on what we disagree with, which is now a major matter. But I have also started work, as I mentioned, to make it easier. Parliamentaries to get the necessary information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u73	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the past and happy to see him cheat on the timeline in the right direction when it comes to the contributions presented in the Government Constitution. It's so unexpected, it's coming to the council here. I was going to get stuck in the form of a previous answer, and I really have to pray. Minister to speak to me like I'm five. I'm trying to understand this by conjuring governments in a government contract to increase the number of innovations and protection groups in waiting groups. Then comes the frame unchanged, and then the minister says, confirms what is known, that box 4 is almost ready. Will be Table 4 thereby laid out also by the highest level. Minister, even next winter? I just can't figure this line out. I take my heart to deal with these matters at a council meeting and discuss them and to reach some conclusion. But if there's any paper, it's in front of a minister who's going against it and she's got a box of four - I'm just standing here and I'll admit I don't understand it, and a minister has a minute to explain this to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u74	A respectable president. I just like what you're doing. A senator asking, and I'm not worried about that. A senator will not understand these matters. Well, then what would it have been? A senator changes basically. The box in general, both 4 and 5, is all a practical process. The question is, when is it ready for me to be a minister? You can call for information as soon as I think it's important. The only information I have in this case is that people look at the overall context that is the climate targets and the goals we want to achieve, both in energy and in nature, and in such things. Me and what. A senator agrees that the council must, of course, discuss this and have time to do so deeply. We've had two answers, and right now, we've got some viewpoints, and it's not going to get exhausted in those answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u75	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Yeah, I'll figure it out. In fact, I wondered why we are not discussing frames 3 to 5 in this context. But all right, there are three procedures going on here, we can handle it somehow. I'd like to use the second round and ask the highest. Ministers in view of the fact that here we are dealing with an overly sensitive matter involving long-term national and national status: Does a minister feel that it is available that the Council is involved in the potential need or is not needed for further activation options at the same time as the energy already produced in the current activations is not new because we have a broken distribution system? Aren't we starting at the wrong end here somehow? No need to ensure that the sacrifices made, e.g. For Melancholy, do you realize that the energy there is fully new? No need to ensure that the Icelandic public who made these sacrifices to secure green energy receives at least the energy of today's systems before discussing new benefits? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u76	Thank you. A senator again for the inquiry. This has to be done by the law. When it comes to sections 4 and 5, there must be a process that is tied in with law and order. I normally work for that. Hv. A candidate gives us a very important part of the distribution system. But it's not just that. We need to make more use of the energy. We can do better when it comes to the energy cycle, for example. It's just energy we could use with big users that's important to make use of. That's why I also brought up a bill about the expansion of the plant, that it's a simple process. Do not all agree that we want as much from the already existing activations? I would. Also with the thermal pumps. There are just a lot of things to look at. To me it is this way: When you realize the size of the project, I think it's very important that the council do so, so that we all take steps to reach the goals we want to achieve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u77	President. It is important to get the council to discuss the matter materially, here in the suggestion: Good and blessed. I refer to my questions from the earlier special discussions, that government policy is also relevant in this respect, since the energy efficiency in phase 3 is a gross estimate, something around 11,000 GWst. Based on current production, there are approximately 19,000 GWst. You wonder, " What's to use all this energy if the conclusion becomes that it's going to be a novelty party? ' We're up to 30,000 GWst. , possible, if everything gets activated. Are we going to agree with this so that big industrialism or green futures can be moved forward? Or what's the policy on using this, because it won't last forever. If energy efficiency is not used, we need to review it again after a certain time and see if the criteria have changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u78	A respectable president. Even if it took years for humans to determine exactly who to sell energy, what to do, they could change those plans the next day. Hv. A senator knows very well how fast evolution is in this area, and it will not slow down. There's a lot of things that take a lot of energy today. Hv. A senator was teaching us about the amount of electronic change that would be equal to the amount of energy in those that were being reported for me. I don't know what it's like. A senator, whose trend is rapid in all areas. What we're doing now, and again; the council is supposed to come to it, and I'd intend to do it. Senators would welcome it, trying to get as good information as possible about the situation, we can tell the electronics in a large context, about the energy exchange, how much it takes, according to the information we now have. Then we know that there are other jobs that many look to. I haven't heard anyone say anything. We can say the traditional industry, except what. A senator and few others, but others have not spoken such things to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u79	President. I'll mention this because the context of the material discussion is important. Yes, you can change policy at any time, but if it's going to be a major energy policy, whatever the sector it is, it's a commitment if it's won in that direction. We are familiar with this in a discussion about the energy package, e.g. that if there was some kind of debate about energy use and some form of cooperation, and then a change in policy would be possible in one or another if such plans were lost. Depends on how long it had come. So government policy is important in the big context of how much is actually being activated and then it affects priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u80	A respectable president. I just assumed that it would be. A senator and other members of Parliament had opinions on this matter, and there would be nothing to be especially inclined to do. Of course, the policy of governments and what is fundamental to this is the climate goal, that is, the basis for it. But since then, all people will have opinions on this matter in the entire context. The point is, we, the Allied Congress of Iceland, should be here, no less than every four years, a plan like this, and we haven't finished for nine years. But I think it's very reasonable, too, when we're doing this, and really impossible, to look at the big picture. I think people should always have. Actually, the idea is that you look at the big picture. Of course, this important aspect of climate goals had not yet arrived, so it is on top of the situation. This was always necessary, but it is especially necessary now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u81	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of history and the good thing that this matter has come to the treatment of the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to report the proposal, but 2 to 2. The careers of professional groups in the 3rd course of a protective and energy efficiency programme say, by permission of the President: On October 12, 2015, the Project Management Board appointed a professional group 4 to deal with activation options and areas in terms of economic factors, especially from the influence of individual activation initiatives or groups of national initiatives. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: A panel 4 concluded that there is no basis for assessing the national efficiency of the initiatives under consideration in the 3rd fiscal and energy efficiency programme. The highest. A minister has any explanation for the United States for what this really means? A group 4 was appointed and has expected to accept the order to carry out the task that the group will then conclude that there is no basis for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and will try to answer for the best information. In short, the conclusion of the field groups 1 and 2 was in form a grade on the basis of individual land value and the impact of individual activation initiatives on those areas. A project management accepts them as grades and proposes to sort activation options based on their grades. Groups 3 and 4 did not reach their results in terms of ratings but were reported, and this is part of the final report of the project management. Thus, the project management could not take these conclusions into their final proposal, as she did with the results of professional groups 1 and 2. In view of this, the methodology does not assume that. It's just the story, and it's something that everyone has. Senators have access, and I have no doubt at all. Congress officials will naturally be able to dig deeper into this in their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u83	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is to be glad to know how the minister approached the matter in his history regarding the possible changes in this proposal as it lies here in moving activation options possibly to a waiting party, which has not been discussed. V.E.G. The minister of the Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who spoke in this council recently that it was seen to bring more benefits to a waiting party, if not specifically addressed in the Constitution. Now it's the same thing from the last time, and my question to the highest. The minister is: Is it appropriate for the Minister to reassign a waiting party and make an option from a waiting party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u84	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I choose to view it this way: There is a project that, of course, has to do with energy security in the country and the climate goals, and there are many ways to reach them. I don't doubt that anyone who's going to study these matters very well, and as for everyone, they're going to have different opinions about it. All I'm saying is that I don't make any demands other than that we have to reach those goals and people have to finish this thing. It's no secret that I'm careful not to hang myself into any particular thing because I know I'd never get everything out of my head if I were to, and it's also okay. No one's going to get it all. It's just the way it is. No matter how much we put it down, we need to sit down, and we need to find a point of agreeing about the matter over these big goals that are important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u85	Madam President. Perhaps just beginning with the fact that ideologies are extremely important. Although the project may not have been as best chosen, only the frameworks that are over it need to be fixed because it is a process that, if well done, brings about how we approach energy efficiency in the country. You see, before ideologies were legalized, the whole country was a novelty. A Ramma program is about not fighting for individual initiatives. We know how that fight ends, it usually ends, so the activationists and capitalists are better off. Nature loses. By having an overall estimate of all the advantages that the energy companies have to support, we are in a very different position. I cut by the highest. A minister reminded us that the last time the Council agreed to the proposal for a frame plan was in 2013, after nine years, and at that time, much changed. The same could be said of the proposal here before the council. It was, like a faraway minister, performed in 2016. It's been six years, and at that time, things have changed a lot. The suggestion to take a look at the bigger picture is a little tricky, but it doesn't change in six years. Indeed, in six years society has changed. We are, for example. with AML of this motion Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, remanded by three environmental ministers. I think the public's view of the Whirlwind has changed quite much since 2016. If I recall correctly, there was only a very little talk about her at that time, but very much to-day. The fact that the proposal to evaluate the overall picture is presented here in phase 3 at the same time as the fourth and fifth stage are in operation in the Ministry, says there is no overall picture. There are three pictures to consider, and it must be normal for them to talk to each other. But this 2016 schedule is just like a timecap. V.E.G. A minister reviewed this suggestion, but it does not tell the whole story to go over the time line just as the minister did. Rather, we need to recall only the conflict that took place and the reason why certain things happened at certain times. In March 2013, Skágís Svavarsdóttir appointed the Environment Minister of Project Management, which held about the third part of the framework. Then there were elections, a new government, and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson took over as environmental minister and wanted to stick the Ministry into a drawer and forget it existed. One of his first works, in June 2013, was to cancel peace - break The Red Sea, just at the last minute, they had a bellen table, and they made a lot of bread when the Minister stopped attending the East for peace relief of Þjórður because of the conclusion of a spring plan. A military camp was to become a protective party, and, of course, it was to be declared at peace. But there is just one of the main interests involved. The Norwegian elder class of 2013 became a member of the 2013 National Guard. Then a barbabrelman's idea of creating a CA, which is like a Norwegian elder, except by another name. Fortunately, that project management went through it and also protected Kallunda. But this activation option is one of the people I'm really worried about because land activation ideas are growing, e.g. in the Waterfells, Sillus, and Laute Islands activations as they are available in the fourth stage of the framework program, there's really no sens except if land induction allows you to pump water through the Kalvelop into the inactivations. And we're just about to find a pretty good example of why it is so bad to have a frame plan of 3, 4 and 5 each in its own corner without our viewing the overall picture. But then, an environmental minister drew his feet to appoint the groups to evaluate the activation. It may be the sentence of values that was missing in the time line, as shown by the minister. The crews 1 and 2 were appointed in April 2014, but they had to wait for a year until they had a head start for coverage and it was 2015. A team 1 dealt with nature and culture and professional group 2 on resource efficiency other than energy efficiency. What changed, which then started, was that Sigrún Magnún, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir, took office and was not just as responsible as the person she started. So in March 2015, three months after Sigrún Magnúsdóttir's intervention, the proactive group 3, which examines the social effects of the continuum transfunctioner, was not appointed until July 2015, and went into operation in August 2015. It's like the highest. A minister left behind earlier, but he did not come to his own conclusions. He returned a report, but not scores, such as professional groups 1 and 2. The same applies to interest group 4, which was to be considered on economic impact, not until October 2015. So these two professional groups, who had little work to do, were simply unable to care for them. And because we're talking about the social effects of the activations, it's particularly important that if we watch specific activations, because by this suggestion the administrative groups suggest that the Industry men should make an bottom line, put Holta activation and Uricar deactivation into a novelty party in spite of decades of struggle, I'm afraid, of the locals against that activation. And because we sometimes love the precaution of the environment, it may also be appropriate to mention that the two of the fortresses here suggest that uncertainty about the effectiveness of the shamans, which somehow justify the overthrow of salmon fish in the sea, the uncertainty will not be eliminated at the level of government at which the project management operates, and therefore this should only have its course. Happy, some would say, to the animals we are not sure if they are useful. It may be appropriate to mention here in my last second that initially a project director assumed that Sigrún Magnúsdóttir would use the entire September, October, and half of November to take a stand on the report of the project management before offering her proposal in the fall of 2016. [[The president calls.]] She took a week instead. So I don't agree with the Minister's vision that it would have been worse to put the proposal back in the Ministry's 12 week course because the original 12-week consultation process was never respected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This proposal is not based on the solid code on which it should be based.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u86	Madam President. Hv. A senator comes into his case at a point that may be more relevant to the fourth stage of a frame plan than is mentioned first, I'm talking about the potential for expanding power stations in Þjótur. It speaks of three stations, 210 mW in force, if I recall correctly. All you need to do is expand the houses and place the equipment. That's all. But I wanted to make a decision. A senator, and perhaps a party of Porta and Pirata, in general, to shape policy. He said that water needs to be pumped back above the loin, with electricity expected, but I now believe that the ideologies behind the ideas of expanding the power stations so that more can be allowed through is a conjunction with the wind. In fact, we may be the best equipped people of all European nations by allowing wind and water sources to play together, making the nation's entire electricity system so much better. When we were working on the energy policy that came into the Senate last year, a good document, and a well done by all eight members of the U.S. Senate last election and in crosspolitic terms, it became clear how badly the electricity system in Iceland is used. The usefulness could be enhanced, and that's why I was referring to the transport systems of electricity, that it was a real electrical system. Then there's potential wind power. What's the stand? A senator about this? I think the ideologies are behind the making better use of the power stations in the water, they can play with the wind power that I might go to better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u87	Madam President. I think I just used the wrong verb and that's why this question came up. I told you, but perhaps it should have just been said to drive water out of Kalpetund into these stations that are supposed to grow. The question is: Does extending these three activations to the small 10 or 20 MWs that are out of it or that have something to do with it? Does wanting to gain an increased volume of water in the area help to make little use of an investment that is hardly worth 10 to 20 MW, but would it be for a 100 MW if water would increase in the area? I might rather draw this out as an example that it would be good to have these qualities all together on the table so that we can measure this whole thing as the law expects, but are not predicting something in frame 4 or frame 5, which will come sometime and at some point, when we are discussing frame 3. This ideologies for global estimate of energy efficiency interests - it has been breached slightly by the time we have a buttup in three stages under discussion at the same time but not concomitantly; not in the same document, not in the same ethic treatment. Then I think we've even started working against the objective of the tool of the frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u88	Madam President. As a matter of fact, I think there's almost all that can be said about it. They can be postponed, waiting for further information and other information. I don't think in these six years, it's a basic change that has to do with frame 3 and what we're dealing with here today. What has changed, however, is that windpower in the world is believed to be one of the main solutions to the green future and climate. It just so happens that according to the research done in Iceland, in Burgundy and elsewhere, the absolute use rate of wind gas in Iceland may be 45-50%, globally it is 28%. There is also a single energy source, which is highly favorable and competitive in Iceland, and the production of wind power has dropped dramatically over the last ten years with improved technology and development. That's why I feel that the key to this case, and when we were working in the energy policy, there were three points I was most focused on. It was the development of electrical energy transport, key to playing together the systems, the lay in the country, as we know about the current state of this location in the Turns and the Tungna River, where water has been kept for two consecutive years, and then a situation developed. If there was a real transport system between the northern, electric, and the south, we wouldn't be in the position we were here. It just so happens, and that's why I've been calling on the discussion in this hall for the past few years, that we need to discuss these issues much deeper and get a discussion of the wind power because they haven't developed very much with the people in recent years as they should, because I suspect that we Iceland are in a unique position to play the hydropower and wind power together to use the total electricity system so much better than we do today and then with the powerful electrical transport systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u89	Madam President. Hv. One senator mentioned that it is always possible to say that we can delay a case and that we would consider when more things are in place and so on. Of course, this is something that is often said about various subjects that we consider here. But then it may be right to believe that a little of the government has been delayed. I studied here how the government of Independence Party and the forward movement delayed the case from 2013 to 2015 just to put it forward after all the short and unsatisfactory work in the fall of 2016. That's the document we're gonna get recycled here today. It may also be true to mention just the last government on this motion unchanged in the years of 2017-2020, when it was finally submitted, because there was some balance between governments, so it was bound together in the front frame of a program, a highland park and a National Park. In some way, these three cases were made up of sisters who had to be led through the government so that each class would receive something for their benefit. The result? It killed all three cases. The management groups during the last term are responsible for a four-year extension of a new frame program. If we take one of them out of parentheses, two members of the board are responsible, in effect, for all the time since a frame plan was last approved here at the General Assembly. So, yes, it is possible to postpone things, but let us not forget that the present government is responsible for the great delay in this matter. A man alive, what a good thing it would have been if she had used this time to fix it a little bit from what it was in the fall of 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u90	Madam President. I'm going to be happy to celebrate the proposal for Congress resolution, the plan for the protection and energy use of territories, the International Parliament, the hope of a later and a fourth time, if I've counted right, the third frame as we usually call it. It is as has been noted in the case of the senators who have already spoken that there have been many years of delays in putting the matter into place and thus keeping it from the government and the Generalis as a basis for working according to the framework. It is the responsibility of the Generals and, of course, of the governments that have sat here for the past eight or nine years. I can't help but think about the discussion we had here only earlier today that discussed energy exchanges, including and climate status and, of course, these issues have always stuck together. Of course, you cannot talk to one hand about the fortresses and the other about a green revolution without somehow rooted in government and government action. It is important that the responsibility for these delays and the intolerance and the lifetimes described here as a result of energy shortages and other factors, an alleged lack of energy, is among other things. Because of this case, because the governments have not had the strength to resolve this matter by the Sigmunds of Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, and Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. In itself, there is nothing complex in political matters. That's it. I think it's only a matter of reviewing the origin of this methodology. So it is that this methodology is created and the idea of creating a frame plan where we can achieve the highest political solidarity on how we use energy resources for this country and how we protect natural resources from this country - this methodology and this ideologies on its basis in the direction of the United States called Flare Iceland, which was put to the foundation in the administration of Community and Independence Group in 2007-2009 and was then continued in cooperation with the Controversion and the left movement of the United States of 2009-19013. It was the categories that laid the basis for this policy, for this methodology, and for this framework as we know it. It is of great importance to understand that the methodology and the hope that we could pursue a professional practice that would be acceptable, so that it would be short - lived, but all of it may not be adequate - this methodology is certainly due to the great conflict of Kaledrana and the plant that was connected to it, and before that, without my going back to the story. In other words, we had used it here in this country to tear one another apart over almost every nation's activation project. So it had to stop, and that's why it's important. Therefore, this tool can be used and used if political parties, especially those with the majority support for administrative cooperation at the General Assembly, have the political strength to use it. It was fired earlier in a talk. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's reaction to their success during the last term because the box was compiled, called a highland park and a national park. As a result, we are in this position today to discuss the same six - year - old proposal. At the same time, we have information that the next schedule, the fourth, and even the fifth - is even ready and the other one is in preparation at the Ministry. So I ask, as previously asked from this chair: Is it not advisable to use this trip now six years after this suggestion developed and put everything on the table that needs working on? Wouldn't that be a advice? I promise. The Environment and Transport Committee will work hard to discuss the matter, although there would be two more plans. We are simply in a place where we need to settle this matter. We need to keep the box so that we can work for it, and not because the person standing here is excited to enable all the resources mentioned here, they must, of course, go through their environmental evaluations and their permission procedures as all know it is, but because we have to be able to move these matters forward and there must be some plan, of course, that both companies of this country can work after and so that it is clear where we're going to break peace and where we're going to be protected by nature. Otherwise, we will remain in this uncertainty that has, unfortunately, characterized this sect for many years, and we will be able to have discussions like those of earlier today's energy shortage, that it cannot be activated, that no one will know what the future will be because plans have not been prepared for all things. And not just a frame plan, 3, 4, and maybe. The 5th stage, rather than the national legislation on electricity security, the implementation of the third energy package, is being taken care that the national legal environment guarantees all possible energy, electrical safety to the public and to the company and that the industry is competing in a competitive market. But for all of this to come together, we need to be able to think about more than one thing at a time, and we need to cover this assignment. That's what we do. by making this interpretation proposal for careful treatment at the Council Committee but also by calling for information from the highest level. Ministers on what's on the table at the Ministry and if it's also not relevant to us here at the Great General for this discussion. I would like to end this very short talk period that I have to use this opportunity to ask the highest. Environment, energy and climate minister on the loss of a staff report on the use of wind energy that it provided for about year. Now it may be just because I haven't really been keeping track of the council, that it's in the process, but we all see there's two more wind power options in the plan. So, there is a replacement party and a waiting one. The wind power, as we have seen, has a very important advantage in the use of electricity and has the effect that it is almost completely reversible, that is, what needs to be set up to use the energy. Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister where it is necessary to map wind power options and whether they will be put on the table with consideration for this strategy at the council of this legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u91	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir boy's Þórunn about most of the things she's offered. It was a mistake to place it in some sort of wrapping with a highland park and such. We should have learned in the collapse that wraps are not for luck, that they broke the world a few years ago. Is it not also true that we need to put this distribution system into force? The call for increased green energy is clearly present. We need to develop policies for land activation. It's not just supposed to be in the hands of the director. We also need to consider not doing this in such a dramatic way as has been done over the years. Today, the vast variety of tourism with the largest unscrupulous of Europe is gravity. Let us do what we do, choose with zeal, and continue to grant the Allied freedom to handle this matter. I welcome the State Minister's tone of national possession of resources, most of which are all resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u92	The President reminds the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u93	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jakob Magnússon's exposé. No, it is true that there have been no charms, nor has there been political enthusiasts. It is very important to bear in mind that, when we discuss national inactivation and Landsnet, we are talking about a business on which the people of the country have to put a policy that is a guide and that is in line with the public good and policy that we here at the high Council put; we therefore set up a guide for the government and the government of the country. If there's something that I think has failed in the design of the box, as it has been used, he's produced all possible ideas about activation in the country, and many of them have become quite stunning. In some respects, that may have delayed the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's a lot of flats being rolled up here, but maybe I wanted to find out that this isn't being done in the Ministry, there's always project management. Project management will proceed to phases 4 and 5. I want to point 'em. For members of the body, it is a Web site called a frame, which includes... runs activation options and what's going on over there. Of course we can. Councilmen also called for this information. It's not done in any small thing. It's the project management because it was found elsewhere during the discussion that a minister appointed professional groups, appointing professional groups. It's a process we've started. Then there are other factors. A senator named them most of them if not all in the green book to help out. Those factors are appreciated by members of the Parliament and by the nation. But it was done in this process, which is certainly much older than the wind. A senator pointed to, on the 1st of 1999◯2000, as well as on the longer history, just to look at it with the best information possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u95	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the information, and of course it is correct to work in project managers and to make an effort to understand it. I would like to reiterate my question about the wind - power options and how they are thinking. It would be good to know and receive this here in the General's symposium where it stands in relation to phases 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u96	A respectable president. As the situation is now, the wind power options are in the frame. Yet, there are not many of them. If I remember correctly, the only person in my new life is a monstrosity, and then there's a waiting party. Then, in a government contract, there is no particular reference to wind power. Hv. paritaprevir This is where Trausti Friðbertsson referred to what is right, and this is what has changed very much. I'm trying to be careful, of course, I have my opinions, but when you see the wind balance in the mix that's only 100 MWs, which I think is small, I think most people are on that if you're at one level set up a wind-forward park, men should get that use as good as possible. But as the situation is now, it is in the frame and is one of the factors. Councilmen can talk about it. Then it's also stated that I like it very much, on the website mentioned above. Of course, there is access to the current task management.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u97	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It's clear to me. The Environment and Transport Committee needs to refer to themselves for detailed information on what is being done in steps 4 and 5 and evaluate how they play together with this six-year-old phase of the 3rd. I think it's wise to deal with the depth of the energy process because we can't afford to act like we don't have to use it. I'm gonna let me say it out here and say it with a what. paritaprevir The jaws of Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson, who spoke of the interaction between power and wind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for merely bringing up the wind, just in general. Then it may be appropriate to review that during the last assembly, a bill was just put in place, and a concierge motion to put it aside, with a proper legal frame around the wind. Framework laws do not quite grasp this feature and must be corrected. This is another case that got into a hacking machine between the members of the board. It did not appear until April of last year, just before the end of the council, just a committee like, in fact, all the government's nature protection issues, which now tell some history. This has not been a top priority for the then existing government, and although this is in the current government contract, I wondered, " Is it as important to me as a nation of highland nations had in the covenant of the last government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u99	Madam President. Yeah, that's right. We don't have the legal frame for the wind. That's why I was doing the highest. Minister after that. I couldn't find out there was a bill or a suggestion on that on the Minister's Constitution. It may now be on the way, but it is not on the council site at all. It is very important to take this discussion, the legal environment, and how such plans can be made, in association with other matters that we discuss here. I think this is another question. The environment and transport committee need to be thoroughly examined and not only general attention to the wind, but also to the law frame as well as to the wind. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson says, and he may also try to contribute to the success of these matters at this assembly. And the lesser part will just have to take it in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u100	Madam President. A six - year - old suggestion for a frame plan has to be recycled a year - old bill on a law frame around the wind - power option. It's funny that the government's list of operations has not been cleared up. I don't know. It may reflect some differences within the board of government, I don't know. In his address, a minister spoke of the fact that we should less focus on our individual options and look at the overall picture, which may be a fine prince if the picture is well done and on the basis of new data. But we're talking about a six-year-old plan that wasn't too good enough. Is it not reasonable, then, that we look at the benefits of Whale and Crooky and Highway, or Inthrains, which are somewhat critical of our eyes, but we would do if we had a fresh, careful frame of plan instead of old and reinvent?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u101	Madam President. That's right, both at the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, of course, that the big picture is important. What hasn't changed is the exact output of the energy options in this frame, as I read it. They're always the same, they're stuck, so to speak, in this plan. However, what we have been doing is the public's opinion of nature's worth and how much we should put forth to ensure the protection of natural protection of priceless global and natural resources that we have left in Europe, as we all know. That is what has been tried to evaluate in the field over the years and has somehow succeeded, or has not. Also, let us not forget that this is a plan for protection and use. This is a plan on how to use energy, but this is as good a plan on nature protection as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u102	President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk that dealt with an overall vision and encouragement to end the matter to some extent. But I scratch myself up a little bit over one point, that's the question, Why? If that is not obvious, why should certain areas be set as primes, so why should we do so? There is no government policy. What is the purpose of the future energy efficiency? I personally have no interest in putting some 10,000 gigawatts into activation if the government then notices the decision to put it all into a big business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u103	Madam President. Yeah, that's where it hit. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's nail on his head It is important that the legal code exists, that the tenor policy is clear and much better than the one we now live in, and that priorities cost and the political priorities we have here, i.e. What do we want to use the energy, what are we doing? Are we being activated to connect one large plant, or are we being activated to create a more varied form of employment in Iceland? It's all missing. You're absolutely right. Senator. And it's just so, as the energy manager has pointed out, that although we could start a new activation tomorrow, there's nothing to say that the energy from it would go to the new energy exchange that is discussed here every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u104	President. Yes, this is the very problem. It's a lack of policy that marks all our jobs here. We often don't know why we're accepting the law. The Migratory was finished earlier. It was an occasion before New Year's Eve, but it wasn't for them to do so, and then why finish it? We're always in butts, some kind of bounce back and forth, because we never take the time to take the conversation about the bigger picture, like whatnot. A senator expressed it, and in the context of the factors that matter in that overall picture. Consider, for example, the greeting system. It's always suggested that it came so well because we no longer have bankruptcy, which was so much of a problem. But we have a huge problem somewhere else at the same time, so the system is defective despite that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u105	Madam President. It is true that this large project requires that we, the whole community, the government, the firm, work on long-term, steady-term schedules and have clear goals. Of course, the goal of energy exchange is, of course, but the goal must also be why we are using these very valuable energy and what it is going to do and how we want to build up our jobs. In this, we need plans like a dog. paritaprevir Kári Gautason mentioned earlier today. We need a five-year plan, 10-year-old, 20- to 25-year-old, so we know where we're going and it'd be best if we were to get together on these plans. So if they agreed to work on the same long - term goals because, eventually, it is for the benefit of this community, the smallest difference is which groups of governments are going together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u106	A respectable president. Here is a synopsis proposal for a strategy on the protection and energy use of land from the Environment, Energy and Climate Minister. This proposal is proposed in accordance with the protection and energy efficiency legislation, No. 48/2011, assigning the government to implement a national protection and energy-efficiency programme, which is being carried out here on a so-called Framework Programme. Based on the strategy, it will be ensured that the innovation of the Member States will be based on long-term needs and the overall basis of interest assessments, which will take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and interest of different national and national resources, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable development as a guide. As stated in the synopsis proposal, it should be in accordance with the rules of the law No. 48/2011, assessments of national and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. A wood plan is an important tool to balance the interests of those who want to generate energy from the natural resources of the land and those who want to protect the wilderness and protect the resources in their own form. A Ramma plan is designed to resolve differences and is also a synonym for certain laws, processes, and methodologies that have developed and established to solve this task successfully. But despite the noble aim of this tool, over the years it has not been successful enough to achieve the peace that we use to assess energy costs and the reconciliation has been in sight only, not tangible. How happy we are, though, that we are on the right track, and we have finally brought up the third phase of the frame plan here for discussion and for the payment of the Council, certainly not for the first time that we have the opportunity to improve! The forwarding party set out in advance of the case for the Generals, and I'm going to make an account of them in advance. He reads: A programme for the protection and energy use of land areas. Framework program is an important tool for evaluating activation options. A review of the Q3 is provided for the step 3 of the cohorts 3 and 4 analyses not included in the assessment procedure. The Summit wants to direct the Environment and Transport Committee to refer also to the results of the trade groups. At that time, the methodology of segregation has been criticized as well as the right effect of the approved resolution i.e. that a declaration of peace will inevitably follow the introduction of activation into a protection party regardless of nature protection value. An advance team stresses the need to speed up energy exchanges in all areas. In the work of the Environment and Transport Committee, the above observations will be made whether to increase the level of induction options of the waiting category and/or change the reduction of protection initiatives. Then it is strongly emphasized that following the Congress's release there will be law no. 48 from 2011, on a protection and energy efficiency programme, reviewed in the light of experience in the implementation of the 3rd-to-date programme. A respectable president. That's when I've finished giving an account for the advance. Environmental and Transport Committees have an important responsibility to maintain this important framework of the programme. The current 2013 approach frame was confirmed, and we know that this proposal is only an application site on our way to the next frame plan that is Number 4 and then next 5. I'm on a transport and environment committee and there this case will be discussed. I expect the committee will act vigorously on this project, for I feel that it is very important for the General to obtain this proposal in some way and also contribute to the continued improvement of the work process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u107	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's history is great. I listened attentively to the advance that the Specialist Assembly has done to the case in view of the fact that I feel that there is a certain correlation between this warning and what it says in the Treaty on the payment of electricity, i.e. to increase the number of requests, and then as a matter of course. In a conversation with me in a Senate hall some days ago, the head of the parish said that he would assume that the frame would be placed for the council so that the quality of a waiting party would be increased. So he spoke as if in the government covenant, the reality would be realized, and then we are here with a different frame. I'm wondering if it should be understood, so the Agency's party would have liked to see the members of the board in a different frame, that they would have liked to see the change, and then put the box in a different frame. I'm trying to figure out what kind of contract the senators want to see in this matter. They will, and now I don't think I'm the least one of them. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee is working hard to increase the quality of the company's costs? Or, if the body is dead, the assembly will be, and especially ill. A senator, be open to think that this version of the frame changes in some other direction, a bit like I thought it was the highest. The minister speaks earlier today, saying that everything was open and the council should be discussed only far and wide? If I get to the heart of this, the Congress has an advance, or a what. A senator if he just wants to speak for himself, when he has an opinion of what changes he would like to see in the box involving the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u108	A respectable president. I'm standing here and I can't help but I can't speak for the entire council. Some members of the council may have developed a certain view of how they want to see the changes in the frame plan, but I walk freely into the Environment Committee on this matter, hoping that there will be a good and informative discussion and that I can make a decision there as to what I want to see to change. I have explained this notice of the entire council, that we want to see some adjustments that we may all expect when going to committees. Whether we want to see it unchanged or not, the process will always be the case, so we stress it. The conclusion and message that I bring into the panel from the council are not balanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I'd like to roll it up in the second round because it's in the company's advance and it's been presented in the Senate case before, and not just with members of Congress, but at least in this particular advance, wish to increase energy costs. We have, of course, the wind, and it was not merely the frame of a garden in the time of the last government, but it was the four bad new years when it comes to the wind. However, there was a bill from the then environmental minister that went quite far in cutting these possibilities off the board. It did not go on, and I would like to ask. Senator: Does she not feel that the wind is important in the discussion of the box now and the possible growth in energy options? [[The president calls.]] And when we are discussing such issues, is it not difficult to have a clear view of wind and our course? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We're working with a 10-year-old document that may be in its nature always so that we have to somehow improve it. It has changed a lot, especially with the wind power, and it is not unusual for this discussion to come into the controversy of this matter. We discussed this in the energy policy group, I sat in it, and there we were looking to these costs. We are naturally a little longer in nine years than to be binding ourselves to these booths, which is one of the steps leading to the 4th and 5th, and surely we need to take that discussion too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u111	Madam President. Just asking about the company's company's priorities, Pronunciation specifically the phrase, by permission of the president: There is a possibility that there has been a criticism of the treatment of the third stage of the work programme for evaluating professional groups 3 and 4 being not part of the assessment procedure. Here I would like to ask, because it does not appear in this phrase: "Who has put up this criticism? " Does this mean that the Agency party is criticizing that groups 3 and 4 were not part of the assessment process, just to be clear? And then, because it's a fairly general notice that things are going to grow down to a waiting party, we have a complete list of activation options for these cards. There are 18 benefits to use and 16 are protected. In fact, there are fewer of them, e.g. is the peacelight of a Shiver's lake field made with four benefits of protection but is actually just one big and positive decision in behalf of nature's protection. Is it possible for what recruitment team forwards, especially for what cost, when asked to increase the number of late activation options? These two questions are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answers may be quite short because the criticism may be quite general. The members of Congress are not exactly critical. What about the Commission's proposal for activation, he's not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u113	Madam President. Just a matter of time before that happens. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson came in earlier, this unsubstantiated inquiry where the head of the Agency said it was the policy of the government, end of a government contract, increasing into a waiting frame prior to the council, on the same day and the Supreme Court. Environment, energy, and climate ministers said the opposite to the Senate. [[Up front.]] That's why I would like to ask: Did the branch office's payment come as a surprise to the group of colleagues? Count the collaborators, and the forward, for which the senator can only answer - considers application to the highest degree. A minister there didn't offer a suggestion according to the collaborative declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u114	A respectable president. I just think it's the highest. The Minister of Environment, Energy, and Climate Overseers is confident that he trusts us in this, and we can shape it, especially as the administrative body that comes into the committee with its emphasis, that we can work with it, and that we can focus on it. I think the head of the applicant spoke clearly in this case that we do, so I think it's totally possible to work with this document even if it happens to the council like this. Something else has happened. I just hope that, that's our sincere wish, that we'll cooperate with this as with the raw materials that come to the council with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u115	Madam President. I'm, like the rest of us here, pretty much thinking about the company's company's lead. I don't fully understand how this was to be done because I thought the case had been settled and had the support of the government parties, the proposal had the support of the board, and so on. That's why the rest of us here covered ourselves with six-year-old suggestions, knowing that there are all kinds of things on the table and in preparation for projects due to a step 4 and 5. Of course, the matter is the custody of the council, and it is absolutely obvious that it is and will be when it is here with us. But we need to get started on this matter of concern. The senators want to change because the category in the proposal is based on a set assessment. There are reasons why there are some benefits of protection, and there are a number of benefits, as well as a waiting party. Idea is that you will be decommissioned or protected by a waiting class. But you wouldn't be running out of security for a waiting party. So I have to get a clearer answer from what. paritaprevir The Roman Halla Kristjánsdóttir's palace on the nature of this problem and on whether the priority is contrary to the methodology proposed in the frame.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We do not want to violate this lifesaving goal, and we are content with this process. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, this is a very important tool that works in balance between protection and innovation and where we want to be. But as I'm saying, it's a nine-year document, it's been completed nine years since this plan was taken, and it's just a phase four. I've got to feel bad. A senator by not being able to present any requests or exactly what changes we would like to follow, but we would like to see in this view whether the number of activation options may be increased in a waiting category or change the cutback of protection initiatives. I don't think it's unnatural and it's happened so often that there's a book or a notice in the government that goes through the council, in this case it's not unusual, and at least there was no noise at this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u117	Madam President. Now I'm going to be really worried. Now we face the fact that there is a desire at least one way or another. The senators of the forward party are moving the benefits of a waiting party from a protection party. It goes contrary to the strategy, its purpose, and its goals. I just hope it doesn't feel that way. The Environment and Transport Committee that it takes the smaller part to take the greater part, then the forward category on how this should be because it is now available, and enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u118	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I have full faith that we will resolve this on the committee. Greater cases have come in and have achieved a successful solution. But it's natural that there's nothing unnatural, nothing unusual that should be between us and we'll get the case out of the approved part, it'll take more than that, and I hope it will happen in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u119	Madam President. We're going to discuss this important matter, a conquistador proposal for a national protection and energy efficiency programme. This is a short period of time, and I just want to discuss a broader picture of the subject that has been in the discussion here, i.e. this larger picture that we may need to discuss as soon as the matter is resolved. First, I'd like to refer to a energy policy committee, which produced a report last year that included all eight groups in the General Assembly during the last term, a transverse reconciliation. This is a matter of requesting energy policies for the next year, but it was only relatively good to see which course to take, at least at this point, to the next 30 years. This is really a turning point when we discuss national energy issues. For the first time, we may get a whole - souled view of things. It can be pointed out about the future vision and the aims of energy policy, the 12 main objectives, the clear vision that it will provide. It says that all energy production is of renewable origin, that energy is used in a sustainable way by society and the public for the benefit of it. All the energy demand is safely available for longer and shorter periods of time. Iceland is responsible for sustainable energy efficiency and energy exchange and agreements on the protection of nature and energy resources. When we worked on the policy, we who sat in the group for almost two years, much emphasis was placed on writing a short report instead of writing some big report. The report is only 30 pages, easy to read, and it contains these policies we're looking at; we were hoping that as many people would learn about it. It mentions some of the goals and is not necessarily in order according to importance. It shows that the energy demand for society is always met, that infrastructure is solid and traumatic, and that is what we learned after December 2019 and earlier this week, i.e. ... withthe poweroutandthesystemsend with shock-resistant weather. That the energy system is more diverse. If so, we are looking at alternatives, but our living conditions have been so far up to the level of water and aquifers, including wind and other possible future benefits. That Iceland is independent of fossil fuels. That land, sea, and air will be changing energy - plans have been identified what we're going to achieve there. To add energy efficiency and waste minimally. That resource currents are multi-new. That's where I'd just like to point out the electronic law we agreed on in June. I was an executive for a new electronic law last year, a professional board. That is exactly what we have learned about the use of savannas that had not been in the electricity laws before. So it's here and there at the council. There are also other points: protection in energy efficiency, minimisation of environmental impacts, sustainable use of energy resources, the benefits of energy resources, energy markets being active and competitive, the level of access to national energy. I just wanted to come in right now because there's been some talk here that there's no policy in this series. But we made this peace with our policies last year. I wanted it to be part of the discussion. In my earlier speech today, I only introduced the importance of electricity transport systems, and there I'd rather point out, regarding planning and policy, that the Landsnet sets up its ten-year system and three-year strategy, so there is also a policy. However, what has been very difficult over the last 10 to 20 years is to implement these schemes and implementation programmes of the Landsnet, and to achieve reconciliation with our large energy system or the electrical transport system, the high-level system. Thus, these policies can be found far and wide in our system, the way we are going to try to handle matters. It may not have been much discussed how we are going to meet the growing demand. The demand here in Iceland has been increasing in the last few years, the average number we should keep in mind. Of course, the demand for green energy is huge, as can be seen in news reports from the computer sector and from the data plant, where there is a huge demand. Thus, there is a demand far greater than that of any 40 to MW 40,50 MW in those years. It is in connection with the fourth industrial revolution that is involved in this powerful communication and then in green energy, perhaps the two most important elements there. We need to discuss how we're going to be involved in the issues related to them, where there's a huge demand for this green energy. We need to shape our policies on what we will do. Already, there may be more than 3% of the power power of the fortress in Iceland that goes to a data plant. And more and less have happened in a few years, in four or five years. Of course, we could take all the energy we have in this program for the next year just to a data plant. But that may not be what we are going to do. Of course, the ideologies behind this are trying to improve and promote economic life in the country in a more varied way. We've looked at data. We've talked a lot about gardening on the use of green energy and its possibilities, and there's no doubt there's much else to be listed. I only access the electrical transport system when it comes in 50 years ago. The first stage was a real justice line between Akureyri and Varmahl. It's built, reminds me, in 1974-1978, it's becoming 50. At that time, this system was moving 20◯25%, when the line line circle was ready almost 50 years ago; the transport capacity equal to the modern transport capacity of 31.74% relative to the power of the fortresses, what the transport system has to do with it. This is a key to how we are going to use energy in our country. As I came in earlier, I put in work for energy policy, the most important focus on electrical transport systems. Then it is the wind power, what we Icelanders are going to do with it, so that it is discussed and tried to get some perspective on these matters. That may be the major global change in green energy use, i.e. The wind generation or the wind power. We can see that there are tremendous possibilities. As I have come to know earlier, the innovation rate in Iceland is considerably higher than we know on a global scale; it's 45◯50% in Iceland than 28%, reminds me of globally. They just happen to blow a little bit in Iceland and we know it. Iceland's southwestern corner is one of the areas in the world, reminding me, where we'll blow the most in the world. This is a key, I think, about the overall system and how we're going to go through this over the next few years and decades. You have to let these systems play together, that's what I've been talking about, that's the hydropower, the geotherm, the wind power, and then the powerful electrical transport system to play between areas. Today, our electrical energy system is this way at Land activation - if I remember the numbers, I looked at this one or two years ago - that in the southern part of the United States, which is the Swamp and Soweg, it was just over 1,000 MW, 1,021 MW reminds me, an artificial force, but the north region, from the blending to the River Valley Station, 1,018 MW. This was precisely halved. That's why it's so important to link the sites together, and that's why I wanted to discuss the overall context of things, but maybe do not overdo some of the elements about the activations in this case. However, I believe it is necessary that we begin to develop a vision of how we will quickly achieve our goals, of the increased electricity production, of this green energy production, of course, in the best terms of agreement with nature. I think we're all in there, wanting to do this as best of all, and it's ours to appreciate what's most convenient. Today, it's just a mood for wind power. A waiting party is Bundlerod. And then I might want - time goes by so terribly fast. In the fourth step of a frame program, because the wind power was mentioned earlier, there were 42 benefits, 34 of which are just in the wind. I've been telling you that we should be careful not to be wind-powered all over the country, but to have them in strategical places, perhaps five or six, bigger than smaller. [[The president calls.]] I think it might be interesting to have some discussion about how we want to handle these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u120	Madam President. I thank the senator for discussing the wind power here as usual in this case. He's a great amateur of her development, and he must be able to agree with me that it's extremely unfortunate that we haven't finished putting a law frame around that type of electricity over the last year, as was suggested because it would be far too clear where to go with all of this. I'd like to ask you where it's at. A senator may have a better view of the long-term supply of the government than the one standing here. It is spoken of a law frame around wind power in the government's cooperative declaration, but nothing is associated with that frame appears in the Constitution of this council. I know why. A senator when we could expect to have some sort of work like this from the Minister and whether it will be worked on the basis of the one that ran aground here the last spring or if the current minister will take some other way in that regard? I know members of the Independence Party who expressed themselves in the matter were skeptical, e.g. of the controversies of the nation's organization from using wind energy because, if I remember correctly, they may have felt that it was too narrow for them to find where to build a wind - power plant. And then I might ask, on a similar note, because this huge delay in the payment of a frame plan has brought a lot of pressure on electric power plants just below the limit, just below 10 MW, whether the senator will see that the government will take some of that gap in the near future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u121	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. For the wind power, I may have been one of those people who were found to be badly new in this category for the last four years because I think it's important to discuss these issues, as well as the general population at the council and perhaps on national level. This discussion has come an amazingly short time. I'd like to try to get the discussion started, whoever it would be. It's just that it's so important for us Icelanders to talk about the wind. I think it's just what's suddenly playing out, the image you're reading about and seeing, what we see is happening in Europe and around the world that wind power is suddenly becoming, is said and read in the media, even a more favorable option than our most favorable water sources in the production of megawatts. Is it not, then, reason to discuss this matter on the depth when it so happens that there is another source of energy in Iceland along with water power and geothermality in which we have extraordinary interests? Energy production in Iceland accounts for a large proportion of Iceland's exports, a large part of Iceland's national production. We are such a privileged class in electrical matters that we sometimes minimize the importance of the matter. We produce 58 MWs, the last time I knew, every man-child of every year, when the two countries in the world, Norway, produce 28 or whatever, and the countries in third and fourth place, about 30 to 40% per person, relative to what we do. This is so large a foundation under our economy that we need to take it with all due respect and thus talk about it and what potential we have to build for this country and its future. I'll come in later if we just keep going and you remind me what you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u122	Madam President. So I started with the review, I was wondering, not whether we should take up a conversation about the wind power, but if there was anything coming from the government in the future about it, in line with the Declaration's cooperation. In view of the fact that we had a bill for our last winter, our work should even be a river. But what I wanted to ask in my second answer was something else. Kristjánsdóttir That's what we're talking about here, that it's just some kind of a form of administration. We do not know exactly how they want to change it, but somehow they want to change it. I would like to ask if the same thing is true at the Independence Party, whether the members of the Independence Party are behind the proposal of a minister, as it comes from a minister, who is now the custom in which a government proposal is made, especially in the council of the Minister. It's just this, whether or not they've been tried by the Independence Party on the grounds of the proposal, as the Independence Party submitted it, and whether the Independence Party will meddle in the project with the forwardness of agreeing to any other framework but the minister of the Party is offering it here in the name of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u123	Madam President. The government's Treaty speaks of a 3rd Framework Programme being completed, and benefits in the Framework Programme will then be increasing. That might be the result. It's just a general speaker for discussion, but I didn't want to put too much into it. I think the full will is to finish the case, because it's very important. I think I've written an article years ago where I only talked about the lost decade in the island and in the north. It affects one society for so long where everything is kept down. There's nothing to go on developing this, building up a job or anything else. It's so important that we finish this and start getting it done. I've only established that there are ideas in frame 4 and then 5. Regarding the wind power, and that it comes from the Minister of Congress resolution or bill about it, as I said before, it is called in, and I think it's extremely important that we get a serious speech as we're doing now. Unbelievably, we seldom discuss these issues, which are fundamental to everything in our lives. I don't know if it's gonna start now. I'm sitting right there. The Environment and Transport Committee is continuing to become a major challenge for us. We're gonna get this case even. In there, it will be exciting to cope with it. But I would certainly like to get the case out as soon as possible personally, for I would not direct the government exactly how the work force is there or the plan, and hopefully we'll get it by the fall, into a new assembly, and take it seriously the next winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u124	Madam President. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you whyNjáll Friðbertsson A closer look at the energy policy he made here was the topic and the report of a transnational committee that returned to minister in the fall of 2020, over a year ago. There are well - thought - out goals, looks good to me, twelve goals, but it is important that goals do not work against one another, they need to work together, especially when such an important course is involved. It says that the use of energy resources should, of course, be of course. That's one goal. I hope everyone agrees on that. But the first objective, and I don't think this is in an important series, is as follows: An energy demand of society is always met. It is important to understand what this goal means, so I ask why. A senator is whether it is my correct understanding of this objective, which was set up in this committee to form this energy policy, that we are here talking about meeting the energy needs of the public and the companies of others other than the industry. If all the rest is up to them, the goals will not work together and will not really work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u125	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I came in earlier with the data studios as an example or an electric fuel in the future or a request for energy, we can't fulfill all of this. This is where we're naturally talking about Icelandic society, if we're going to go into the energy exchange and finish it, we're gonna have to be able to make sure of this. I remember Icelandic homes today, just homes, have about 4% of energy consumption in Iceland. Of course, it's almost nothing less than what I said before, however, it is a huge part of our country's terms and lives and economics. There is an energy crisis in the world, and we see a global gas rise of about 400,5500 percent in Europe and in many parts of the world. We're not going to solve all this with green energy in Iceland. The demand is so huge right now. We need to tailor our course according to what works best for this community. I think that's the big, important project. Personally, I don't necessarily think that time has become especially useful now in becoming a decade in these matters, and we know it. Since the past few years, I have been trying to point out in this council hall that we need to discuss and have more discussions about all the other sources of energy that come into this discussion. Above all, it would be the wind power at this point. We will see what happens to the sea and such fortresses, ocean-fallers, possibly in the future. Or what? All we need to know is who are the most beneficial qualities for us. The Icelandic electrical power system is useless. This work clearly showed, perhaps 75%, of its use. With the wind, we, as I came in earlier, could further increase the efficiency and then increase the power of electrical transportation. We're talking about each percent of the better use of the system is a lot of money for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u126	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's very important to get this out here with this discussion that when we're talking about society's energy needs, we're talking about the public and the company's energy needs. This is so important because the project is that the legislatator creates a framework where electricity security exists for this group. Therefore, what energy goes on needs to be prioritised. We will not resolve this differently, completely removed from a number of costs, away from what is practical or what we want to put more into the box. We must become a community, and it is our obligation, to the government, both the executives and the legislature, to make sure that the public of the country, the homes of the country, and the businesses, other than the industry, have access to the electricity they need to keep our society out. That's why I really like having this confirmed here. The energy policy is good as far as it goes, but at this point, the export is being started in the law, which says in new capitals and in the law and, of course, also in the frame plan, so that it can be determined solely for this important project. Of course, it's quite right. It's just like that. paritaprevir The remains of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, agreed earlier, that the years in recent years have certainly not been well used.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u127	Madam President. I remember it's less than two years, one and a half, since the committee returned, and then the energy minister proposed a strategy based on energy policy in September, October 2020, a situation to deal with these issues. So that work started. I think that was a good job, and we just need to keep going. Let's take the energy exchange, the third, which is the transport energy exchange. It has been the most common number, if we take the automobile traffic on the roads and transport devices there, our ships and our flights, 1,200 MW, which is the first stage, 300 MW would be moving on land, and just to put it in context today, the power power of activation in Iceland is about 3,000 MW. It's 40%. But take proben, this may be something that comes in over 20 years. But I said before, it's been rising by about 40,650 MW every year, and it may have been more in the general economy and in the structure of it. Now we have also been talking about communication and dealing with it, and a powerful communication system has been developed in Iceland. We will emphasize this fourth industrial revolution. It's just about this, it's about a lot of telecommunications and green energy. The fourth industrial revolution is accomplished only by green energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u128	Mr. President. This is an important discussion, and it is beneficial and moderate, and it is excellent. I'm glad you're here. The climate is one of the results of man's aggressively walking on earth's quality, spending time on matter, and making unwise decisions for himself, without considering the overall context of the objects, much less other living things. We intend to achieve full energy exchange no later than in 2040, so we need to take every step deliberately, lay the basis of sustainable development, and trust in nature protection. Hv. Þórunn The Sveinbjarnardóttir to the prehistoric, the formation of laws on which the synonym is based, was very well established. Good, if you're okay. A senator did not use the wording ◯ Here, the controversies were on fire. And there's not much to it. I want to believe it, and that's how I feel, considering the recent discussions, and maybe that's what it's like. Because of where we are in our conversation about climate, that we are thinking in other ways. We don't have a grand plan, which we once saw here, to attack one major activation project to advance, e.g. ... awrong. I want to believe it, and I don't feel it in the discussion, and I'd be curious if I could hear it from someone else. Congress members, if not correct, that anyone is talking about major industrial projects. But the energy exchange is inevitable, we have to deal with it, and I think we're all aware of that. The Management Board is a device that must truly be revised, and it is also planned, as shown in the government covenant. But I believe in this device very much, and I hear a lot of people in this room have it. At the conference's Left Motion, a green supply highlights the importance of careful treatment by the Generals, and we want to be careful that the balance between protection and innovations, as the Commission's proposals are based on, i.e. The professional work, is reflected in the proposal, and it is an important basis for continued environmental and transport work to be carried out by the environment and transport committee. The management device is based on what has been presented here in the case of several members of the Parliament; these are long - term and collective interests. And because I mentioned the need for a review of that may be possible. Also, say, and w-w. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bear's daughter came in, that there will be another age. But we haven't completely forgotten him. And because this has been discussed with so-called phases 4 and 5, which are in the hands of project directors, it is interesting to consider the ideas that have developed in that field, i.e. ideas of further energy sources. There we see a significant cover toward wind or wind, and our ideas go adrift in the waters of the earth and of the water. However, I would like to point out, because this has been discussed with the fourth part of a frame plan, that there are available on the above - mentioned website, frame.is, to the highest. A minister came in, suggested a proposal for the classification of activation options from the project board in a news report last March 31rd. There, 13 benefits were taken for assessment. There were seven assets in the water, one in the earth and five in the wind. Only by these sources of water were there three so - called enlargement options, which have also been discussed here, and the earth - quality is really just an enlargement as well. V.E.G. In his first speech, a minister mentioned that he had a Senate conference file that we anticipate springing ideas of changing the frame Law in view of the fact that this expansion can be seen as the only way to capture and obtain further energy. And speaking of numbers. Hv. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbertsson, Jr., mentioned numbers that have certainly been in the discussion. They're from the family, and I hope to what. A senator would correct me if I was wrong, Sam's energy, which is certainly talking about a 1,200 MW, of which only 300 MW is for energy exchange on land. I don't have any grounds to challenge the integrity of these numbers, but I think it would be preferable, too, in the discussion that has taken place here today, that they also build on, and that we know and get together on what the real energy needs and then what. I brought it into my language on the first part of the program here today. But just so we watch these numbers, we're in the framework that is already in force at some 600 MWs in a so-called energy class, if we look at this in the context of the numbers mentioned earlier. In this suggestion, we have brought the megawatts to over 1420, if I calculate the right to do so. So all the talk of us being here in trouble doesn't quite make sense, I think. However, it should also be pointed out, and the highest. A minister came into it in his speech, although there is an idea that the priming option will go to a novelty party, there is not much between that and that it will be, at the end of the day, new. Hv. paritaprevir Rafn Rafen Ólafsson pointed, e.g. has recently formed aquifers on Smokeynes, and there is a problem with the use of innovation. Of course, the continuation of the treatment that takes place at the World Council of New Testaments has to be looked forward to. It's not all that's going to work out. The other end of this, which I also consider very important, is the protective party. If the waiting party in between is that we are evaluating the benefits that have been sent in and we can better appreciate how appealing they are with the principles of the framework, the law makes it very clear that the benefits given by the General Assembly in a meta-analysis should be made at peace against energy recovery. And I highlight the wording ◯ against energy efficiency because it was only during the last term, when it was then the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister took part in the work that had long requested from the council, since 2013, to enforce this decision, that this should apply to a general declaration of peace. However, this is about a peace - telling area against energy efficiency. And just as a review for the World of Congress, there were in the current frame of a series of only 20 activations to join a reservation. Of these, 14 have now been declared nonviolent, seven in four waters, and other seven in other four areas of the earth. This is very important to enforce and complete the tool framework. I just wanted to keep this going. V.E.G. A minister has established several operations through the Ministry's Green Book. I have high hopes that we will see together what the situation in these matters is, and I think it's very important, so I'm glad we get into this discussion on the committee at the same time. On the other hand, because I only came to see that when you look at the priming ideas that have been discussed, there are signs of a wonderful plan when it comes to wind, I can say in some way. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, says that we need to think very well and find out where we are going to put the wind. For myself, I do not delight to see him scattered throughout the land. But the ideas we have, and we know well that not all of them become reality, are somewhat connected with the past. I believe in it, and I experience it so that I close my speech now, that we are about to return to this speech, and that it is most likely to the climate crisis that we have to react to, which makes us reason. I trust all of us to let my common sense control the continued treatment of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u129	Mr. President. I cut by one of those things that passed by. A member of the council and a member of the council at the left green, saying that the two members of the council stress the importance of the procedure and the balance between energy efficiency and environmental considerations, something in that order. When served by the chairman of the Party, the expression ◯ At a convention class of the left greens (now greens) often has a specific meaning. And I would like to ask: Is it true that the council has made a warning of this proposal, as did the Congress Group of Congress on the part of its people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u130	Thank you. A senator resists. It is his correct understanding that the council of the left green made a warning of this proposal, and I was referring to it. I'll just read it to the senator, but I know why. A senator is very well aware of his left - green position in this context. The branch of the left green highlights the importance of the careful treatment of public opinion. Just as the proposal of a project management is based on, there is a balance between protection and innovation. The professional work reflected in the proposal is an important basis for the work of the environment and transport organisation. The Treaty discusses the handling of the case in such a way that the waiting party will be enlarged, but in such a process, the Party emphasizes that the above balances will be maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u131	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a form of government - or should you say a proposed form of government, when two of the three members of the council ordered the matter in advance, and both of the officers are subject to the fact that the case will be as stated in the Treaty that it should be? To extend the waiting party, is in the government covenant. It seems that both groups of colleagues were surprised when the minister did not expand the waiting party before making the suggestion. It is different to understand why both groups saw the reason to give a sound warning to this aspect. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Did a matter of disfellowshipping come up on a council of left greens? And perhaps also: Wouldn't a council of the Left Green support the proposal? Is the council still holding the Minister's motion unchanged or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u132	Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the inquiry. I can't answer whether -- well, the facts are true, I can't answer whether someone in the council was surprised that the Minister made such recommendations. I'll remind them that a minister, who was of our order, put it exactly the same way during the last term. We were behind it in the council, or the members of the council did, and I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u133	Mr. President. Well, it doesn't start out well. I was going to start by commending the highest. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Ministers for presenting the issue as early as they can see. During the last term, we observed that the case appeared for the first time in the final centenarian council of that elected period, and it was evidently intended for nothing to be done. Now, it is as early as the case is now, before mid-Guary of this election season, and I must admit that I am optimistic about the fact that the government groups intended to complete this case and resolve it so that it would finally be the standard that the framework process would not be dead, which I have been afraid for one or two years, afraid for this arrangement which was intended to settle, to cause conflict in the earth, and to form suggestions which is intended to be used in ways that would be possible. Now it's up to you. It is recommended today, and both members of the Independence Party in the government are acting out a matter that they have just agreed to in the government and in the House of Congress. It's kind of an amazing start to something that you hoped would be the end of the saddest story that framed things have been in over the past few years, and for all too many years. But as we all know, the council error proposal, which lies before us, was first proposed in 2016, or it reminds me. So I feel as if the council all of it, and particularly the members of the greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, somehow are allowed to make basic changes to the framework as presented today, changes referred to in the Constitutional Convention rather than in the Congress agreement as agreed in the government and provided by the Congress classes. It's a lot of wonder. It's kind of embarrassing if it's supposed to be. The Environment and Transport Committee members for some kind of work like this, and you can't conclude anything but that a frame plan is in a much worse place than we thought was this morning. In fact, in this special discussion this morning, I asked what you might read in the declarations Sigurður Sigurnsson, president of the forward party and the highest. The Minister Ingi Jóhannsson, when the Minister told the council that the increase in the quality of the waiting party was seen, gives birth to a waiting party, and is expected from a company of protection as well. I think the highest. The Minister of Environment and Energy did not directly answer that question, so it has to be simply perplexing the question: Is it this priority that has come to the surface and which is the order of the forward movement? Is the warning that the waiting party should be extended? First time is the best time for it to be in the way. Similarly, the council will have to know who is the leading members of a council of left green. Thus, the minister of the left movement was found to put the matter at a point as it is right nowIngi but in the light of history, it was never intended to be completed, we can see. I think it's important that the council be informed of the government's path. Of course, it is that with six of the nine members of the Environment and Transport Committee, the government groups control how this case ends. There is no doubt about it. If the price for putting the matter forth as early as possible - which I commend to the highest degree. A minister for -- is that there will be a game taken on the Environment and Transport Committee to beat the House of Congress and the Left Green, it is not a pleasant treatment of members of the Parliament who sit in it. I'm gonna let this thing do for now. The proposal is as presented to the last council, and I think that for many reasons it would be desirable to complete the proposal in principle as it is available. We know this, especially from earlier this afternoon's discussion on the state of electronic energy, that the fourth framework is very advanced in its legal process, and I think the council should be discussed in this work of possible adjustment and change. I think it would be wise to establish a firm basis for what has been here for years in terms of government policy by agreeing to the proposal unchanged. It doesn't make any sense if you're to equalize it to shift the benefits of a waiting party and move the benefits of a waiting party to a waiting party, of course, the waiting party is stopped. There's nothing to start with, a waiting class. I'd like to mention here that there's no clear evidence that would be a reason to deduct the benefit of a late-level novelty class. The fact is, e.g. In terms of the water range, however, there are only seven biodiversaries. That's all. If they're going to transfer many of them from a group to a waiting party, then the thin thirteenth will be. In terms of the high temperature areas, ten benefits are specified and the same is true here, if one of them is to be moved to a waiting party, then the list shrinks pretty fast. If any of the costs today of protection would be added to a waiting party, then there is no great thing to do by that operation. It is only an option that will probably be reassigned to a protective party in the next lap when the fourth frame is taken for treatment and approved. That's why I want to direct it to what's happening. The environment and transport committees are not to go in this way, remembering that this appears to be what the main cooperation of the Independence Party is going on. In particular, if that is the case, it may be interesting. Of course, it is also interesting in the case of a council group of left greener when we look at the fact that the clergy's minister made such an accurate contribution a few months ago. Finally, it is necessary to keep in mind that there are other issues on the way into the council. It was estimated that at this point there was the highest. Enforcement minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has given up a case allowing a organizational adjustment when electrical lines cross more than one community society. All of this is gonna be a puzzle in this big movie, and I think it would be good for the council to have the case as soon as possible to discuss it all in one agreement. If we're always looking at just a small fraction of the overall picture, all of this will be very fragile and incoherent and it may not be clear the severity or effect that is due to the possible change in the frame plan as presented here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u134	Mr. President. What a surprise this has become! A senator says. The crisis story of a frame plan may not be able to be considered without regards to the breakdown of the history of all the environmental defenses that were intertwined during the last term, and no result was lost because the government groups did not get together on their side, bringing them into a blundering dispute into the council as late as possible. Now, they've decided to try the other way, which is to get out of the way and bring them back early to the council and see if we can't just make it work. What is the position of the government on a frame plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u135	Is it to be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u136	Well, it does not appear from members of the government, all of whom are acting in advance of this matter. This cannot be read out of the government covenant, which speaks of extending the waiting party, but then the proposal for the council is made by the same group. When we don't get answers from the management department, it's only natural for us to think about it here. I asked, for example. The representative of the forward party, which warns against bringing the benefits down to a waiting party, what benefits it would be. There are not many of them, there are many of them. What choice? Is it not reasonable that we know this during the treatment of Congress what is involved? She could not answer that question. The head of the Left Green, the duel of the advance party, but still the class that made this unchanged during the last term, before a year, stated that he was, of course, on the same recommendation if possible. So, what's the alarm about? [[The president calls.]] Then we may be able to learn what the Independence Party thinks about this matter because when I asked a question. þm. Whether the United States Parliament had acted in advance, Njáll Sturdy Trausti referred to the cooperation of the Declaration and said that it was in itself a common priority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I already missed it. paritaprevir But if Trausti St. Friðbertsson said this, but if the government's deal has become a public company, a general public ◯discimer to all the matters the government is going to offer, this cooperation has become a very strange combination but was in the past term. They could, of course, do so for a long time, under the cover of the fact that there had been nothing more to it than the cooperation of these three groups. And then came the Covid epidemic, saving the government classes from the narrow position they had entered through my terms. It's really amazing that this is getting ahead of ourselves right away when you're making the recommendation. Of course, for us here at the council, it is possible that from the first few hours, the government groups disagree completely on how to approach this huge issue. I think that's news. At the same time, humans can hardly complete a sentence differently than to refer to the importance of climate. Wait, what's the meaning of all this? At the same time, the most likely factor in strengthening the transportation system has not been submitted by moving the line layers forward. Unfortunately, he seems to be more in word than on table, this government's interest in climate. If that were the case, if it were real, then people would be putting up a case to finish it, moving it along and bringing it to the ground, performing these wind mills, the linework, and so on. [[The president calls.]] But somehow, buying time seems to be the main thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u138	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic, and using a foreign word, it is translated into English rather than vice versa. It's an amazing thing to do this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u139	Mr. President. Only in terms of inactivity during the last terms, it is really important that we have been here for four years discussing the importance of improving the energy efficiency programme, adding something clearer to the wind, and examining the 10 MW criteria. There's a lot to fix in this system. But because the government didn't get any land or beach, nothing happened. As a result, we are here six years after Sigrún Magnúsdóttir composed this suggestion, just in the exact place where people were 2016. And speaking of the time being the highest. Environment Minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, it's naturally a bit funny that we're here to reimburse the proposal of the advance that progress supports not, which the minister of the left greenerer than a council left green made a warning, and, as the Independence Party--Well, we may get better after a while--is not a complete dare but, in spite of the fact that their own Minister has the case. The government contract may be viewed as such a guide for what the Senate should do, to expand the waiting party somehow in the government's administration covenant, but the government groups do not get together on that part, so we should just make it right here. In his last contract of government, the headline referred to him as "Environment of the Council. " I remember, not that this government deal is about the work of the Generals, but about the government alone. Therefore, I find it very strange that members of Congress feel that the Minister can offer just a few practical suggestions that should be developed toward the government's policy in contingency, the policy of the government that no one can point out exactly what is involved when we consider the specific advantages involved in this program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u140	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. The image as hell. A senator, of course, draws up here. But maybe this wasn't supposed to surprise us so much, I'm just reviewing that by the end of the last session, the matter of the Council on the Environment and Transport Committee, where I had a seat, which was a new telecommunications bill, was a administrative bill. It was a matter that had to be finished. There was a lot in this Milugreshavari that had to do with the fact that that this case was not completed at the end of the last council. How did that get out of the question? It wasn't because of the resistance parties. The government groups can be said to have merely been basically content with the appearance of the matter. No, it died because left greens, according to the information received by members of the council, stopped the matter in the final meters. Government bill, a bill that the left green had approved by government and Senate, but then in its final meters, it died without ever properly explaining why it was. In that way, it may be said that this is just more of the same thing that we were sitting under during the initial terms. The cases that the pack does not agree are somehow thrown out of the government. There, the Ministers don't have this problem, and then things go into the Houses. There are some vague warnings, such as the late leadings of the advance party in the highland park. But I do not remember that the council was commissioned to adapt the government's case to the government's policy. I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u141	A respectable president. It is a true entertainment here to listen to government officials discussing the opinions of the members of the administrations in some way and most importantly that they have not been molded and navigating completely, since most of these chairs are now being heard to complain that the General Assembly is just some sort of stamping pad and is intended to stamp out the politics. Here is a synoptic proposal for a future giant case, the frame that has been stuck in the council for years, unfortunately, as it has been over, opening up the possibility that the Council itself, the legislators' rights, will have some room to work the case and possibly change this synopsis proposal here. The Senators are all over it, saying it's the worst. But I'm only happy if we take a democratic discussion about what the frame should look like. Now I feel that the members of the Central Party were a little busy talking about the government, that politicians are expounding power to officials. This is a proposal, as it has been made since the project administration, and as discussed in talks, a minister of the minister has made the proposal exactly like this. There's a reason, and I'm thinking about it. A senator is very familiar with the misunderstanding in the event of a secretary's intervention in the proposals of the project. So I want to direct this question to why. Senator: Counts back. Senator that everything should be followed by the proposal of the project government now and in the future or that it should be considered surmounted. A senator would agree that it is reasonable for elected senators, politicians, to have some opinion, and to make changes? And if so, which is normal for the highest. Minister or 63 senators elected in here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u142	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. So it is first to answer that this has to be considered in the context of the structure process. This process and arrangement were designed to take these matters out of the political pits, and this experiment I believe most were reasonable. But what has happened, of course, indicates that, as I entered my speech earlier, I had been afraid of the past few years, that the structure process, and the tools that the program is pretty much dead. I was now filled with hope with the highest history. Minister for this case earlier today that perhaps it would be coming into the body, but then the next thing we hear, the members of the team are warned of the bill they've just handed out from the government. It is very special when it comes to the day when the High Priests and the Left Greens will appear to be going around that the Congress adjusts politics in this case according to government policy. Hv. A senator cannot help but smile at the government's side of this. There's just no other way. On the other hand, in the princely position, I have concluded that the council has the highest opinion of matters coming from counsellers, for many times they have been held by means of assembly work in the council that there is a reason and that there is a great improvement in the affairs of the council. As for this particular matter, as I said in my speech earlier, I hope we accept it as it is and then continue with this framework work on the basis of the fourth frame.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It was noted in the Senate speech later and very interesting that it points out that he supports the approval of this synonym. But my question was, Is it reasonable for the council to have found such great things? I have to tell you my point, I think it's very important. Of course, when given this warning, it is well known that members of the Parliament may have some kind of warning in their case, it is all about the fact that the matter is going to the church treatment we've built up here and there. A senator knows this as well as I do that cases often change, sometimes make significant, sometimes minor changes. I can hardly see that this situation is making some major changes, but I'm sure it's an opportunity for the council to discuss it. I've said it here in a speech when it came to the last point that in order to settle the matter, I think the waiting party needs to be extended. In that way, we would actually be able to move on with the matter, for, like, the rest. A senator came in exactly. If we can't complete this frame, then this ideologies behind a frame plan is likely to be dead. I would be very sad because I agree with it. Senator, I think it was an important step to take on that journey and work based on the work of the Project Management Board, which saw all the factors. But at the same time, I don't want an elected agent to cancel me, because we here may be able to reach a different conclusion than those on the project management but, of course, on the basis that we have studied all the data and reviewed professional work of the project. I would've thought we were what we were doing. A member of the council would be glad to be glad that members of the council could make such a suggestion and have the authority to make changes in it, if that is the case in the next part of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that there is usually a great improvement when the Senate committee or the council reviews a bill for consideration and does not act as if the stamp pad sometimes in the flashing that the council is, especially regarding the introduction of various European regulations. [[Up front.]] - I knew I'd get it. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son with this. But this case is a bit of a special nature, and we know the history of conflict in connection with long - term activation projects. Hence, this experiment, which has spent tremendous amount of time and money on creating a frame plan in this way, was made available both to politicians from the council, to local governments, to stakeholders, landowners. party attendance is very high in the process. To say that, I must admit that this case seems to me to be enjoying only a considerable measure of uniqueness. In effect, it begins to skim under the framework process at the time of the day. Environment Minister, Safís Svavarsdóttir, is the first environmental minister, if not reminded of me, making adjustments in the proposal of the preparatory groups before ordering a case in the council. This may have seemed to me to be the beginning of the march we have witnessed in these last years and really since 2013.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u145	A respectable president. We're gonna talk about a pretty big, important thing, the box of so-called. So I think we're here to discuss one of the biggest challenges we've ever had in the climate. It is no secret that all meetings and conferences, whether in the international field or in the country, with climate coverage, energy exchange, how the world can switch from fossil fuels to pure energy. We are standing there with resources that we have managed to enable and use various productions and to lead the good life we live in here in Iceland. It may be particularly interesting to see this in the context of what is going on in our neighboring countries, what is happening in Europe today. This country is totally dependent on receiving the gas from Russia at the same time as the Russians have shown opportunity to invade Ukraine further. We, this beautiful island in the Atlantic, are self-sustaining and self-sustaining in energy sources and have the possibility of becoming more independent and more sustainable by using our energy so that we can stop burning fossil fuels on our cars and vehicles, using falling power or other energy sources to it. As we have considered, though, we have a small sad story of how we have managed with the box. As I went on to counter this point, I agree with that after observing it as a teenager when we had a successful Cárder's activation and the earlier activations, it would be clever and wise to have a professional process that would oversee the energy benefits and that we would be determined that some benefits would never be activated and would therefore go to a protection party. It would probably be something else to activate, and then it would become a colony, and then it would be the waiting party. Sadly, though, this has not been what people originally did, so of course, is to blame us for being politicians - and I may be more referring to the people who were before me and before us - have not yet reached the conclusion of winning the case. I'm going to try to be optimistic and hope that this time it will get there. As I said before, and I've said before, when we've been discussing the box, I see the solution preferably to the waiting party growing. Some would think that we were giving up on the project a little, and they can be put on glasses. However, it is equally important to look forward to making decisions about the use and protection of our resources as well. It's probably the generation that replaces us now sitting in this hall, and may have to deal with someone else's work that we're doing, has the ability to use or protect, and enjoy the resources that our country has. It's a question of whether and how to make adjustments - we've got a Senate resolution, it's not a legal bill, so we'll have two discussions, and this will be done to the committee. It's not complicated that way. The presentation is, of course, a group, a waiting party, and a protection party, and then the report comes. I thought it would be a very normal, respectable president to be a senator. The Environment and Transport Committee reviews the matter in detail and will be able to make changes if possible. I could not imagine that the council or the committee would make any changes other than growing the waiting party. I thought it would be very unnatural if someone went directly out of use for protection or protection for use. I have so far claimed that it might be a good way to expand the waiting party. But the big thing is, we need to get this done and get it done. Those in positions of government, as is called in daily speech, have enjoyed discussing whether the ruling groups agree completely on everything. We know very well, there doesn't have to be any jokes about it, that we're not the same group, and we don't agree on everything, Independence Party, Left Green and Announced, that's just the way it is. No more than the government side of the board, you agree on everything. But the big thing is to try to find a way to the future that we can, we that would form the administrative part, and much more so, the council all around us. This, of course, is the big future step we must take in the years ahead. I'm absolutely certain we need more energy. I heard some senators coming up earlier and saying, "Hey, there's no more energy. We don't have to operate anymore. I don't agree with that. But first and last, we're obviously supposed to use our energy carefully and look for all the ways to reduce energy consumption, use knowledge and technology that are developing in those areas. Probably, though, the most important and important step is to strengthen the transport system. It is totally unacceptable that certain parts of the country do not have energy security and the pollution that happens when we are burning oil to keep the house going or simply to warm up or allow small companies to work in certain parts of the country, it is completely unacceptable. So I think that's our big future challenge. We discussed quite a bit here during the last term, after the storm of December 2019, I think I remember correctly, a request we made, a couple of senators, going over these objects and being completely aware that our infrastructure, when it comes to electricity, is not sufficiently reliable, and there is a need to be improved. That's what I'd like to say. The Environment and Transport Committee is successful in handling this problem. I hope we have an opportunity to discuss these things here in a later discussion for the summer and thereby make the arrangement. It's like the highest. The minister entered them is waiting for our next frame. But I also think, a respectable President, that it's a good thing for us all, in the important task of our future, that we may slightly withdraw from this category of political war and think about the future of Iceland, we understand the great and major issues of the climate. We all sense the importance of its role, especially in knowledge and technology, which has been created to use sustainable energy. We can be a real model in the world when it comes to stopping fossil fuels and using sustainable energy. Then, of course, there is another energy source, which is the wind power, and it is not in the frame to any degree. Only in this discussion can we be discouraged that there are laws that need to be applied. To me, they can't be too complicated, for the advantage of wind energy is that it is completely reversible. This is not to say that I want windmills on all mountains or on all fjords, not at all. We need to find some frame around it. But the opportunities are so wide, and it would be sad if we didn't take advantage of the wonderful opportunities in our green energy to become self-sustained and green and to contribute a great deal to the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u146	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For her part, Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir is involved in this discussion. There are two things that I would like to ask the senator, that may have been evident in her case, and I did not listen well enough, but was the proposal promptly taken care of by the Party of Independence? That's the first question. The second question concerns the waiting party. I'm kind of afraid there's a misunderstanding about the transfers between the classes, the Neo class, the company's crew and the reservations. When you have access to a novelty party, it's big enough to get into a process that could end up by activation. When possible, he has been valued as a protection party that he should be at peace with energy efficiency. The benefits of the waiting group are those who will go either way. So I have to admit that I don't quite understand this line, even though I realize it's in the government Convention, that there's an increase in the cost of a waiting line. It would be nice to get a better explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir's not fair. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. Hv. A senator here asks a question that has been popular to wonder about, i.e. whether this matter was taken into account by the members of the Independence Party or by other categories. There is no warning that this matter will appear and be treated as part of the council, but individual senators may have a specific warning that it will not be taken lightly. Of course, it is very common for members of Congress to make the premonition of court care, and they may have some opinions that it might change in that situation. What one most could change, the better. Of course, a senator knows very well that this is a complex controversation proposal if things change greatly, the only change that could be made, is somehow shifting between classes. I told it earlier that I could see it first, and first of all, it includes to settle the matter, so that it could be taken care of - that there are groups to be moved. Hv. A senator may find that unusual, and I know why. A senator knows this very well. However, there are differing opinions on what the assessment is based and whether there may have been some changes, e.g. in the evaluation of technology or knowledge, which may lead to the taking of options from another category and saying: "Let's wait, see, and then return to the evaluation later on whether it is desirable to protect or activate the desired option.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u148	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the clear answer. It is thus foretold that this body of interpretation proposal we are here was generally taken care of by the Congress of the Left Motion, by general notice of the Assembly of the Agency, and by the notice of the individual members of the Independence Party of the Independence Party for a change in the proposal. It's a government case. All right. It'll be interesting to talk about it at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. But, of course, that's just the case. A senator's assessment of the benefits may differ from that of any member of the council. But it is based on a particular method that we agree on. It is also true that new information may have been presented in the past six years, but it is even more surprising that the proposal is submitted unchanged, and the new costs and/or views that have changed in the past six years are not taken into account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council is able to teach you why. A senator and others in the government stand for more matters, and they are no doubt already inside the council, where there are general warnings or warnings from the individual members of the administrations. It's just that cases are arranged by the council into the Senate to treat the council, and members of Congress often want to give advance notice on certain matters they want to study, reflect on viewpoints during conquistancy. As I did well earlier, both in my speech and in front of my voice, I rejoice that as members of the council, we have just a chance to take this discussion, and the council is not viewed as a signpost and should only be stamping what comes from the government. In this case, and what. A senator considered it well, of course, came from the project administration, and they agreed on the methodology on which the project management is based. It is no more than anything above criticism. I therefore find it normal to have the opportunity to discuss this method and to wonder if something can look different than it did when it came from the project administration of its time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in view of the fact that I know that the senator has studied the procedure and, in view of the fact that the senator's involvement in the discussion of the matter last year: Of the seven advantages of energy efficiency in terms of water efficiency, there is some particular option. A senator believed that it would be more likely to join a waiting party of those who are now a series of activations, as it is presented here? And also, are there some specific activation options in the high - temperature regions that are appropriate? It would be interesting to hear from the senator, now or even better, members of the Independence Party, whether there were some lines that would be the best of advantage taken from the colony. There is now the beginning of another round of ethnic barriers at the party of Independence. It is being done for example. The requirement for the removal of a small area of water for Whirlärlization under the possession of the state. All of this plays together in one way or another. Is it, e.g. The Independence Party's opinion that Inflation will come from a novelty class, just in view of the impact of a prime minister of finance on another national traffic system? I'll make it work in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. No, I can't mention any particular advantages that I personally or the Independence Party party would naturally move between them. I trust each other. The environment and transport committees to review this matter professionally and if the Commission agree that there is a reason to change that state over that great solidarity within the Committee. But I'm not here to mention any one advantage rather than another. Even though I have studied this synonym and have participated in a discussion about the box before, I admit completely that I have not developed a view of whether something is undesirable there, i.e. if I should move something in between myself. I've only said that, so that we can proceed with this ideologies and mechanism of action, and to achieve any agreement in the case, we might have to move more into a waiting party. But that is not because I personally feel that there is some personal advantage in use that should be protected or vice versa. It is in my mind that we are trying to achieve some political reconciliation in the matter and that we can take care of it in order to continue with this ideologies and mechanism of action. Hv. In his speech, a senator did well, and it seemed to have strong opinions that this was the right way to approach this complex issue when we are choosing between using and protecting our natural resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u152	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I think it's a great way, but I'm getting a little bit fraught with hope that it's going to go on a long way. But I would like to ask. Because the senator says that it is a way of expanding the waiting party: Is the senator equally moving the primacy of a waiting party and moving the onset of a protection team to a waiting party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u153	President. Thank you. A senator again. Well, I think there's a lot of questions that I don't have. The speaker may not feel that this way is as perfect as he would like to be heard in his speech earlier. But do I equalize it? As I have said, this would be the first thing we would need to do if we had to find some political reconciliation to settle the matter. So I haven't developed some strong opinion about what to transfer. But, yes, I think it'll have to work in both directions if there's to be a political reconciliation, that it would be possible to decommission a colony and, on the other hand, to enter a waiting party. Then it might be with this view that I was considering earlier in my speech, that future generations have something to say, and we in here may not have to detract everything into stone and decide for future generations whether or not to use and activate, or whether there is reason to do it right away, there may be a fairly large group of people our future generations will be able to cope with, with the tasks and challenges they may have at the table of their decision-making.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u154	Mr. President. I might get to start by saying thank you for this last point. The senator on the right of future generations to possess resources that have not been determined, possibly water or steam, or what they are, that modern generations cannot be so occupied by completing Iceland that we forget that there are people coming after us. The Grand Prix age has lasted only 60 years, one to two generations have gone very close to completing the country and would be sad if we finished it before other people came to the table. I'd like to discuss the warnings that a member of the Independence Party makes, which is certainly not as strong as a big stand as any of the fact that a whole body of Congress is making very rare warnings. Although individual senators often warn government cases, it is rarely the case with an entire body of members. It is a strong signal and something that happens even less frequently from two members of the same council. Hv. A senator rejoices that with this, we can have a discussion in this hall about how we want to see this proposal developed. The problem is that the representatives of the classes that made this warning did not bring any of these into this hole. Hv. A senator was asked earlier what fortresses she saw moving to a waiting session - which I would have thought was part of this discussion that she rejoiced to take here. She couldn't point out one. I asked why. Councilman of the Foreign Party, The Halla of the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir, same thing, where the band stood in it. I didn't get any answers. [[The president calls.]] If the groups view this as some way to take a democratic discussion about how to change a frame plan, why is it not clear what they want to change? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who rejoices that we can agree on the importance of future generations making decisions about activations and that it is not up to us to determine in advance. Hv. A senator complains that I do not bring direct suggestions to a previous discussion about this council decision, how to make a difference. Of course, when I talk about accepting the discussion in this hall, I mean the National Assembly. Now we're finishing our discussion, and I haven't even heard - I'm afraid to say whether it's overlooked in some speech that some senators have made such suggestions or discussed some special advantages. I would rather expect that discussion to take place at the moment. The environment and transport committee will review this proposal. As I said before, I just hope we can handle the case at the Committee and we can sort it out of this room. For my part, I would be prepared to agree to some compromise that would involve the expansion of a waiting party. I get to take this opportunity, if I have some time left, and I ask why. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. A senator and a Congress party of Porta agree with this synopsis proposal? I'd rather you were. A senator and all the senators of Pirata would vote for her if she went through the same side? Or will we see any adjustments made by Congress party Porta as regards this synonym?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u156	Mr. President. I'm not going to comment before the council on a case that we haven't shared in. But I'd have to. A senator listened to my speech earlier today that I criticized the 2016 project. It was badly proposed at the time, and I criticize that these efforts are repeatedly being made, despite changing circumstances for various advantages. I listed specific options in which situations simply require reassessment for reasons of caution, for natural protection reasons, for various other reasons. That's what I did, even though I did. A minister would have encouraged us not to discuss outstanding qualities. You see, it seems to me that this is a conflict between the Democracy party and what it is. A senator sees that the classes are on one another's side warning because this is a previous discussion of the proposal. Next, it will appear in public vision for a discussion complete from a committee. [[The president calls.]] It would have been desirable, if people meant something with these instructions, that they could be here in the hall and say exactly what they meant with them rather than speak general words that they should expand the waiting party without being specified further. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u157	A respectable president. I don't know if any question was addressed to me in the second answer from what. A senator gives more general criticism that I speak here about a democracy party and that the council can discuss this matter. I'm standing by what I said earlier. I think it is normal for the National Congress to discuss this proposal, and I respect those who have declared some kind of warning, that they do not need, during previous discussions, to offer accurate suggestions and to start picking something up. I suppose they'll all come up on the committee. Hv. A senator introduced criticism of his work at the time and evidently had an idea about some advantages. I also assume that this will be discussed in the Committee. I just repeat again and again what I said earlier. I wish. The Environment and Transport Committee will review these suggestions, whether or not there may have been a change, and then whether there is a reason to react as a result.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u158	A respectable president. This has been an ambitious step by the government, and I believe that there are cross-political communities, that Iceland will be free of fossil fuel in 2050. If we achieved this goal, we would be the world's greatest people on climate. A decision to be independent of fossil fuels cannot be made without making a decision as to where the green energy should come from that which should be replaced by fossil fuels. Earlier today, it was noted that there is no shortage of energy in the country. How can this be said when the analysis of the Landsnet points to the opposite, that there is a chance that low energy will need to be delivered in the average year, not just a poor river of water, and immediately next year? The success of energy exchange programmes beyond forecasts or the increase in the enterprise market will be even worse in this respect. Today, oil is being burned in fishing factories. Not long ago, these factories were encouraged to switch energy and drive their machines into electricity, pure Icelandic energy, instead of imported fossil fuels. Similarly, in the country, fossil fuels are burning homes, fossil fuels are burning, and why are they doing so? Yeah, it's because of the lack of electricity. In other words, employment cannot function properly because there is a lack of energy in the country. There's no energy for new enterprises, and it just means one thing, that we're losing valuables. We're not creating currency money. In Iceland, a lot of electricity is produced compared to other countries, and we're talking about it in the context of the multi-digited appeal. However, this may be associated with the fact that we are also catching huge quantities of fish when compared with the many - numberd appeals. Here, too, the value of tourism is equal in terms of an appeal number. So our unique position is in terms of electricity production, and we have been able to use our energy wisely throughout the years through energy exchange in house warming and electricalization. We are in a place today in energy exchange that most nations are going to be after some decades. Energy issues are one of the main stakeholders of the country. It is a well - known fact that electricity shortages are the building of jobs for cleaning all over the country. In this context, there must be an electrical transport system that is almost at the feet. We have power in the system that we cannot bring to those who need it. Since 2018, the Landsnet has turned down about 100 projects due to restrictions on the transport system and is a social loss due to energy shortages at least 10 billion a year according to Landsnet analysis. A respectable president. The situation in energy is a disgrace, and it sees anyone who wants to see that the journey we are on today is not in harmony with our ambitious climate goals. The local fish industry estimates that about 20 million gallons [20 million L] of oil will be burned during the present season, and although the situation is irreverently serious about the environment, this is a huge economic issue for people and businesses. For nine years, the General has not adopted a frame plan. Meanwhile, we are losing incredible opportunities to replace imported fossil fuels for domestic and clean energy sources. We must move out of the pits and strive to meet the ambitions of the government. This provides a practical framework for identifying the fine balance between protection and viewpoints. If we are going to meet the ambitious goals we have set on carbon emissions, we must produce more energy. We have to produce green energy. Climate change is a global problem that affects all of us. So there is no solution to transporting energy - consuming industry from green energy to countries where pollution is much higher. We can't wait another ten years to get the energy and sustainability of the transport net. The mission is to ensure enough energy to enhance our country's competitiveness, thereby building our welfare system and improving our quality of life. We are going to fulfill the ambitious goals we have set for ourselves and the fundamental factors involved in this journey. Let us always remember that our electrical energy system is essential for economic progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir for the talk and agrees with her that the framework is a good tool and was designed to obtain the debate on energy efficiency and protection from the holes that were certainly buried here during the turn of the century. However, this is so that the Independence Party, a series of whales. The senator, who has been in the government for the past eight years, nearly nine years, has handled this matter as a government party. There's been something to stop the third stage, even though, as mentioned above, the fourth and fifth steps have gone by, at least. is the fourth runner. But I completely agree with the senator that the transport system is not working, of course. It's just like that, and it has to be fixed. It is as we know, planning matters. That's where the bottlenecks are. Then you will need to find tools to get around it, not just that, but to find new solutions. I've heard the highest. Web Minister is moving the idea of making a different organization, e.g. for transport systems. First, I'd like to ask the senator if such ideas are in her mind. Second, I'd like to ask the senator if she had taken notice of some aspect of the proposal, since I understood that some members of the Independence Party had done so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's a great answer from a local Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir daughter. It's true what I mentioned in my case that we need to step up out of the holes we've been in for far too long. Hv. A senator wants to know if I've made an advance. No, I didn't, to be answered here. It also refers to the transport system of electricity. I am very interested in it because I have had many conversations with company leaders around the country for many years who have not been able to expand their work, have not been able to expand their factories, or have been able to expand their production. Many rural communities around the country cannot welcome opportunities for construction because they cannot provide the needed energy. It pains me because I want to see our land in a more prosperous settlement, in all the countryside, and, as we know, the key to a flourishing stock of a powerful business life. Because why? Þórunn I would like to mention, as a 1st Sveinbjarnardóttir. South, that there's a certain position, that's a lot of concern. In this regard, I'd like to name the Southnes Line 2. I'm with what's-his-face. paritaprevir It's an Ásmundur of Friðriksson's annuity of the bill, suggested to walk in a very strong way into the organizational authority of a local society, which you may not think is a good thing to do. What, though, when that line is out of print for another dozen years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, the transport system must work, and all of us must agree on it. But we also know why this situation exists. And now I want to make it clear that it is not the Union's policy to take the planning of my rural society, but the experience I have gained in this category over the years has brought me to the conclusion that there are some things we need to plan at national level. We need to discuss seriously how we do this because this is a matter of safety for all the citizens of the country, electrical security, which is the basis for our living in the country. I wanted to get it this way, and I heard from the news earlier this week. We're just selling about 85% of all the energy produced on the land for industry. That is a decision that has been made, not always thought out to the end. But okay. Fortunately, we get a higher price for this energy now than we did in the old days. What we need to make sure is that the public, that their homes in the country and, in fact, all companies other than industry have access to safe energy just to build up. It will only be done by the government, with this and the Commission, that you can set the laws and priorities in order to ensure access to energy for the other 15%. It's not supposed to be that big business is moving in such a way that the rest of the economy, if you put it in such a way, is not access to energy. Yes, of course it has to be activated, and it needs to be done according to plan. It has to be done according to a frame plan. But there must also be a much better environment for this energy use and priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u162	A respectable president. I want to come back to a question. paritaprevir It's a challenge for the Serve Sveinbjarnardóttir Þórunn in regard to organizational matters and organizational authority. When she brings up the highest. Ministers have opened up the fact that part of a national organization, as noted in the case of a decision, is reasonable in some cases. Senator. And if I get back to Southnes Line 2, there's a work that is very important to our national security, i.e. International Airport. There's a shortage of energy. There has been a continuing lack of energy for many years. There are big and big companies, big business, and huge numbers of people. Hence, there is concern when a member of the community can prevent electricity from flowing to this whole area. I'm a new senator, and I'm here to discuss a frame plan for the first time. I have high hopes that the council will succeed in achieving a better structure than has been in the past decade, for this is of utmost importance. Also important is the careful approach to the earth because these are irreversible projects and we need to be careful about these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u163	A respectable president. Earlier today, the highest amongst them was introduced. Minister of a follow-up schedule, a plan submitted almost unchanged from 2016. It is worth remembering that the Council has not completed this program for all these years. There is a famous quote, taught by Einstein, that it is the definition of insanity to try the same thing again and to expect a new conclusion. This list lists e.g. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} The actions that have now entered the designated danger zone due to the Smokejanes fires. There are the fortresses that the majority of the nation has opposed. Trying to push this suggestion over and over again without any changes is as wise as hitting the head with the stone. V.E.G. The minister says it's the Council to discuss this matter. That's right. But such a course does not free him from the responsibility that it is the highest. Minister to submit this strategy as a synonym. If the highest. A minister wanted to make some peace with him about this matter should have been in the process of renovating this plan and making an updated suggestion. There are much better things to do in this process, but it is also important that these issues be looked at more than just where we are going to activate. You see, today a lot of our electrical systems have come to their years. The building line that is the basic distribution system is approaching its age of 50. V.E.G. Ministers are talking about the increased energy demand for energy exchange, and that's why. Councilmen too, but the truth is that there is enough energy available today. However, there are limits to where it can be distributed, and a lot of energy is lost on the way from activation to users. In these areas, during the decades since the system was built, there have been a number of high - tech technologies. As we examine where to activate, we need to examine which opportunities to make better use of the already activated energy rather than just focus on increasing activation. It is important that, when it comes to such important things as the priming and the protection of the environment, there is wide agreement, not just at the General Assembly, but in the community. We here owe the generations who will inherit this country to quit the sandbox game at the council and seriously settle down and find ways to secure both the environment and at the same time make it possible for us to go through energy exchanges and other opportunities in the next few decades. The first step in the process of reconciliation is not to try to put pressure on old suggestions that do not agree. That's the job of the highest. Minister to show the council the willingness to submit an updated plan for at least what is most unhappy is now, or may be in a danger zone of volcanic eruptions, removed from the colony's category. I challenge it to the highest. Minister to take such reconciliation steps and immediately submit an adjustment form from the Ministry to the Committee Work. I also challenge the highest. Minister to be ready to cooperate with the council. Then I mean both government and government, cooperation in energy and energy exchange. It is my firm faith that if I have the highest. A minister breaks the point of his mania and breaks the tradition of not wanting to cooperate with the political opposition at anything, and success can be achieved. We can't just point to a green future, but at the same time, we can destroy the natural world and the very lucky environment we are to call our country. I don't know. Councilmen and the highest. The minister of the beautiful words composed by the watchman Stephan G. Stephansson, by permission of the president: I love you, I love you, sweet ground! Which bringeth up man and beast's flock, With playful toddlers in a mother arm, With old age we rest at ease -- You'll open your arms to me cheerfully. You're not about my religion and politics. As a country and a nation, we have a unique position in these times of great change. The opportunities here for achieving energy exchange and climate - related results in harmony with the mother of nature can be not only a success to us Iceland but also an opportunity for us to be leading in this field and to share that knowledge and experience with other nations. To do so, however, we need to be ready to work together, bury the shoulders of war, and sow the seeds needed to build a future green society. The current work ethic in this country, and especially during a council, is clearly not working. I would like to finish this talk with another quote from the spiritist who loved this country so much, by permission of the president: A Little Nation on that Island has endured many things, tested for centuries power and toughness The nature of the land on hard. All nations smaller, and over all the nations that are greater, if you have respect for the mind and the spirit The actions of all nations and lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u164	Madam President. Today's debate on the protection and energy use of land is, in my opinion, one of these major matters. Why do I say that? Yes, society's largest project over the years is reducing greenhouse gas emissions. One of its main options is to ensure the implementation of energy exchanges in the country of green energy. Energy and environment are intertwined and affect each other. Iceland is in a very special state of energy. It is noteworthy that around the world, we proudly report that 99.9% of all electricity is produced here by renewable energy sources. But we need more energy and a better transport system if we are going to make rapid changes in energy. In addition, energy for the growth of high-tech companies, increase in land fish farms, large-growing vegetables, and green industry is needed. But energy issues are glittering, like the highest. The minister said here this morning, and then is taken up under my opinion. This morning a front - page report in the morning newspaper said that at midnight last year, there was a limit to the delivery of electricity to telecommunications across the country, industry and data beings. This was followed by a previous failure to a fishing factory that is now using thousands of tons of oil instead of electricity during the winter. It's not a problem with energy, it's an energy crisis. I just call it a crab, and I just don't find a better word for the amazing condition that has come up suddenly in a country that generates the greatest electricity on a person in the world. But where is the root cause? Is it in the wrong priority for the electricity trade, the lack of activation, the loss of energy in transport, the lack of transportation ability, or the fact that it rains and does not snow enough in the country? Certainly, energy issues are complex. If there is enough energy in the East, for example, it may be difficult to get to the south or north because of insufficient transport capacity. We're talking about two linked systems, activation systems and transport systems. The problem is that electricity is not produced on track, but it can be stored in the bases, which are actually a storage site for electricity. Today we are dealing with one part of the system, the activation system, called a national protection and energy efficiency programme. This plan is also complicated with many aspects. It is complicated because it is the interaction of natural protection and the activation of land areas. Enablers can have a powerful impact on the attractiveness of their territory for tourists and outdoors. For example, activated mechanisms can affect animal life, vegetation, natural quality, and cultural value. For the energy companies, line companies, it's also a complicated issue. There's a dry year and wet year coming. Pressure in the ascites can increase and decrease, even disappear. Plans must be made that are based on many scenarios, and they're definitely done. It complicates how long it takes to build the continuum transfunctioners and set electrical lines. But I'm sure most people are surprised at what this problem, the lack of energy, and the bad condition of the transport system, this energy crisis, will come to our new Minister. Energy and climate ministers are surprised, although the Independence Party has kept controlling the energy issues for nine years. At their posts, business companies in the country have not been able to get enough reliable energy and have to rely on oil instead. In addition, whole areas do not have access to electricity that responds to the needs of homes and companies, much less a three - phase electricity. It's not good to have the feeling that the government seems to come from the mountains in this case and sees a glow in the sky, as just happened. In fact, I knew that the water that makes the electricity comes from the mountains, which may have been enough. The government has failed the public and the business of the country by not taking it seriously and by not acting in harmony with predictions and suggestions. In this regard, I would like to see that all companies make predictions of income, expenses, and development of possessions, resources, including energy needs, and many more, their homes make predictions. That's what we all know. The government also predicts urban development, urbanity, economics, and much more. But the most important projections in the public are energy forecasting, just what we're talking about today, where it is estimated to be far beyond what the need is and how it needs to be produced. Energy forecasts and energy issues are thus one of the most important aspects of government at one time, and the importance has increased in recent years as a result of a demand for a green economy. It should not be difficult to put together the needs of households, companies and institutions of energy and to compare with the availability and transport capacity far into the future. Therefore I am amazed, and all the people of the land: I say, suddenly there is no power in the land. But I say, it's not a lack of energy, it's a lack of initiative, reason, vision, strength, determination, and boldness. In this matter of complacency and complacency, there is obvious evidence, and responsibility is especially among the world's highest - ranking categories. The Minister of Environment and Energy, the group that has been directing these matters for nine years, as I said before. The government needs to ensure the reasonable structure of the new electrical processing and support of the transport system. It is important to ensure that all activation plans take place in ensuring energy and climate related activities and electrical security. The Minister of Energy doesn't have a period of pressure. He's already going to have to step up and say clearly how Iceland is going to be free of fossil fuels first to all countries and where the energy is to come from. No further position is available. The future and generation call for action. In connection with this discussion, I have discussed with several experts in this field, and I have been told that this energy crisis is considered to be not just because of a lack of water in the highlands and the lack of transport capacity but because of the intolerance and procreation of the government. There I quote the comments of these experts. The government has to and must enter into a case, and I fear the highest. As he has often, so is a minister who readily handles this matter. It looks like the energy issues are like a hot potato that no one wants to carry. In the mind words such as lack of planning and funding, lack of priorities, and then sales of electricity are surprising that we are selling huge amounts of electricity to bitcoin pits, which is one of the most disgusting uses of electricity available. Energy issues are long-term, a respectable president, and what is determined today will be carried out for the next 10 to 20 years. But for the entire last term, former Energy Minister and Supreme Minister. Minister of the environment. There's no movement, there's no place to stay. As a result, we have lost precious time in the fight for improvement and real success in climate. There was no lack of preparation, no lack of reports or knowledge, and no lack of statistical data. Everyone knew what to do. The reason for inactivity was the political agreement on station. The political rivalry has cost the nation dearly. So I encourage the government and the highest. Ministers to handle this matter with reason, forethought, courage, and determination and to make sure that these matters no longer come as thunder from clear air. I'm the highest. Ministers and the entire U.S.R. to take on the energy situation. I've been talking about the energy crisis at the beginning of the case. In Chinese, the same word refers to a crisis and an opportunity. Let's use this rice and turn it into opportunities to make sure that Iceland will remain an example in environmental energy sources. A respectable president. The restoration wants to ensure future security. We have our policy list that energy efficiency will continue to be classified as being influenced by nature, culture, memory, community and economy. We, on restoration, would like to ensure national energy security by building and strengthening electricity transport systems and preventing energy shortages from blocking urban development and economic development.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u165	President. Thank you. A fine speech for a senator. That is a good question: Where should the orc come from? We have the problem here in Iceland that 80% of the energy we produce for the industry. This is a high ratio. If we ask ourselves about green futures and solutions in climates, we can also ask if the proportion of industry is not to be lower in Iceland. If so, there is plenty of energy that comes out and can be used for another, very easily. Some groups have talked about taking all the dirty productions from other countries and producing environmentally speaking, which is not going very far. We can't produce that much more energy. According to protocols there, we could add? We, 11 gigavats compared to 19 now, that's? of what would be There's not a huge addition to global affairs. The question is, shouldn't we think differently? Instead of going to the old solutions, how can we make a sustainable new and green future with the energy that we don't have necessary this manufacturing process that we're choking off? When we ask, "Where does the energy come from? " does it not just say, " We already have it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u166	President. Thank you. A senator for great questions. I've talked to several experts in this field, and they tell me that by using digital solutions, using more digital technology, you can produce a much greater amount of electricity through existing activations, more controlling the flow, more controlling the distribution. We now rely on a little bit of intelligence to solve this situation. There is also, because the studios were mentioned, that maybe Iceland is just the best country in the world to produce aluminium. There are solutions to Straumsvík, where carbon dioxide is just pumped into the lava. This is the only lava in the world that receives carbon dioxide. I heard yesterday that the concrete companies in this town are about to pump carbon dioxide into concrete, so there are all kinds of intelligent solutions to these problems that we need to take advantage of; not just more facilities, but more of the modern systems better use them so that we produce more energy without much investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u167	President. More than a decade ago - well, it's gonna be two decades ago - Sweden added an update to its energy system, where the energy system works in both directions, even from homes that can even produce electricity and sell into the Internet. It was, for example. carried out by the introduction of brilliant speeches, which you have heard against certain criticism, that it is an organization of someone who wants to fuck the public up, etc. I think it's a hell of a lot of talk in the face of technology that can do us a lot of good use of energy. Of course, they can be used in a bad way. We need more transparency to make sure that they are not abused. The Internet unleashes tremendous communication forces, but it is also used for an enormously bad purpose. We always need to be on guard and aware of the flaws when creating new technologies and new developments. There's a lot of chances other than to activate. I feel like I'm missing an introduction in this council arrangement for what's being added. Why is this necessary, but not in the future, such as. Smarter or better technical solutions for activation and such? The context is missing so that we can, in fact, make a decision about more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u168	President. I want to thank you again for your good questions. I could talk about it all day, until night, this is such an exciting scene. There are so many interesting things going on in these cases. All economic development in Iceland in the coming years will be based on the energy available and the environment. V.E.G. During the years that follow, a minister is in a position to exert tremendous influence on so many issues. If we just look at our pros, for example. We could make all our vegetables here in Iceland, 80% of that has moved in today. Here we can produce products and offer a service that is energy - related and environmental - that could have a profound impact on our entire economy and future and can provide opportunities for our young generation, new jobs, and the like. Here is a wonderful opportunity to have a tremendous influence. President. I hope the present government will take its place and focus on this matter and make this a top priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u169	Madam President. We're discussing the box, a national protection and energy efficiency programme. I'd like to talk first about the situation upstairs, i.e. that we are exerting energy which we have already produced at high cost in all possible ways. We are conquering it by not having a distribution system that works for the whole country. In my opinion, it's not really possible to get into this discussion here without discussing it. There have been a number of issues that have been discussed that explain that we are putting this frame forward. In this regard, there have been cases of government contracts, governmental parties, and that this frame has not been discussed for years, etc. But it cannot be discussed without talking about the distribution system. It's important to import legislation so that it ensures the exchange of energy for the public, but we also need more specific guidelines on this market. We need to make sure that energy goes into the public market to the country's homes, to the companies of the country, in addition to big user and energy - efficient industry. I think we need legislation because the public will not compete for major users in a world with growing demand for green energy. There is no consistent signal that increasing energy production will lead to a first state of these persons. We are conscious of meeting competitive laws here as well as anywhere else, which are catalysts within the European Union in the Regulation there, in the legal environment, to follow this way. There is strong evidence for subsidies to our cold areas in particular, but this needs to go through the tax system, for example. The state has full permission and is fully involved in the task of ensuring energy for these areas. There has been a bit of the discussion, after the situation, rural areas in these cold areas, had to be interrupted by other contracts. It is right to keep the responsibility of national activation very high in our energy supply, but it is not responsible for national energy security. There are other people who do. That's what we're here to do. We need to make sure of that, and I wanted to keep it up. There is a clear political policy on this subject, and the U.S. council needs to take a better look at the people in the country in this regard. This is relevant to people and companies in these areas, for society, but it also counts for the national protection and energy use debate. Of course, the consumption of existing energy is an enormously important input into a discussion of how to protect and how to use in other land areas. As we discuss the state of electricity in general in Iceland, the focus is changing times and energy exchange. That's the big thing right now. We are faced with electrical vehicles, electricalization of transport in general, land, sea, and air. It's all going well. In continental Europe, hydrogen will need to meet the demand for energy, instead of fossil fuels. All units in this country have agreed on energy policy to 2050, with Iceland being rid of all gasoline and all oil that year. That's a big change. We spend tens of billions of dollars a year buying that fuel now, and that is equal to the total budget of state to the whole of the country's university, so we put these things in perspective. We're not just talking about the cost, we're talking about huge benefits if we make it through. This policy of changing energy calls for green energy, and that's what it's all about. Then perhaps two main points are: How can we use more and in other ways the energy we now have? How and how much new energy can we produce? We also look forward, because we also have a community to run, that there is a growing demand from outside because of the international energy exchange goals and the fact that we are living in the attractive position of producing green energy. It is also the application of the manufacturers, which find an increased demand for products produced by green energy. This is something we need to consider. Of course, it is a wonderful opportunity if we keep our cards right. When it comes to better efficiency of energy, the distribution system's position is, as I mentioned, but there are other ways to make more use of the energy in the economy. The enlargement of existing power plants is also an important route, with a minister's case involved. I think it's a very important step, and maybe it has advantages, more than many of the other things that are discussed here, that we should be able to do it fairly quickly. It also matters that we are not losing even more years in cooperation with the three fine groups in this regard. All of this has to happen together. We need to win this thing, and that's what I'm most concerned about how the case is set up here by the board of directors. Of course, when new options arise, we need to consider alternatives to water - power activation. I'm going to say that Iceland's water - power - activation season, as we've known, is about to end because there are simply few goods after new ones, and there is much opposition in society. We have additional advantages to make better use of what is available, we are talking about new energy, and the wind is one of the most realistic solutions. We can achieve a very high power output in windmill areas, which leaves no trace like hydropower workers, choosing to go back. The wind power also has a good antidote to water quality, and we also know that technological progress is making this much more efficient energy production. So I have to say, in addition to this, it would have been most desirable that we were going to this work now with the box and higher strength of the policy of wind energy production than we do. The book still speaks of lost years. But these are the projects ahead, and I want to be here only at the end - I can see that I'm running out of time and some chapters are undecided, but they're going to get there sometime - to look only at the benefits of all this delay. The advantage is that most groups are now closer to their policy and focus on the subject than they were some years ago. We have developed policies that include the sustainable and responsible use of energy. I'd like to mention four points in that direction, and I don't think that's a lot of objections, but it's important to me that it's part of the discussion because it's a matter of the best for all classes to agree with, i.e. about this frame. We have felt that it would be important to put into practice the power energy that the present hydrodynamic and geochemists can produce through the structure and development of the transport system, as I have mentioned, but that we also improve the efficiency by intelligent and economic applications, which I miss a little bit of seeing and knowing at the height. A minister is most likely in this government to understand and to want to take advantage. It simply matters, but we also look at local solutions, such as microdoers. The second point we've been working on is that if we think it's necessary, we should meet increasing energy demand with new energy efficiency in which sustainable use and minimisation of environmental tracks are guided and, in particular, to build up wind plants. The third factor we've been working on is that greenhouse gas emissions from fossil activation are to be limited by all available means and contributed to the producers of energy from high - temperature regions to bind and use gases in the earth for environmentally friendly production. We have technology, they're working on the development of technology in this country, so it's very important that we don't miss the train there. Fourth, we emphasize the production of environmental fuels, e.g. hydrogen and methadone will be strengthened and replaced by contaminated fossil fuels in the region and possibly abroad because there is an enormous demand for hydrogen. Our neighbors, who live in a situation similar to ours, are in no way close to having as good a head start as we do in these areas, have begun to do so. There, governments are helping companies to make their own place in this market, and it is unbearable to think that we will miss the train. These are things that I would like to see together with this framework so that Iceland will be independent of the import of fuel by domestic energy sources, and then we will be able to launch our steps in the world with our intelligence and energy at such times. President. Time's up. We have a lot of work ahead of us. I'd like to mention one thing. Don Kíkóti, the knight of the mind, fought bravely at the windmills of his day. I hope our work here at the council will be more effective and based on facts and a common view of where national interests and interests exist in the present and future. It's gonna be a challenge, but I'm gonna believe the council is up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u170	President. Hv. A senator mentioned the homes in his speech, and I just wanted to come into it, for this discussion has not been very much discussed with that important group of electronics. It's the most important thing, the basic premise, that we reach electricity and take care of the heat and energy for the population. There is a fairly large group of people who have been concerned about electricity, following the energy packs, etc., but in particular in the third energy package, they are added to specific national obligations as well as instruments to ensure energy security and quality of energy and fairness in price-separation and, if the government chooses, to small companies, not to the big business. I find this very interesting in the context of this synonym, for I have not been given to see how governments intend to secure the energy security of homes and small companies. This suggestion says: Yes, we're going to put a lot of more priming options into energy efficiency, and it's going to result in a lot of activations that can be activated. But for what? How to ensure safe use of energy across a country in high quality, which is climate-wise, not with the birth certificate of nuclear power at the back, etc. and the fair price? That is the basis for this suggestion that we need to consider, how we can answer it. I look forward to that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u171	Madam President. Thank you. Gunnarsson You see, this is so interesting. I agree this is a discussion that is important to take if not before, as the wish would have been, then at least in relation to all of this. I've had a lot of discussions. A senator mentioned, and I did in my speech, that the security and equality of the country is something that someone else should take care of, whether it was electrical products or those responsible for the distribution system. It's not like that. We're the ones to make sure of that. As I say, we have a choice. The tax system is one of the most direct, simplest, some kind of counterweight productions. We provide such contributions directly to homes, but rural areas in cold areas do not live in such areas and then have to hand over services to homes at this high price, and this knows all. There's one interesting thing in this, because of what. A senator mentioned a third pack of energy - I must admit that, after the approved package, after a long pregnancy, I do not know exactly what it is that has really been like for us. I'm just gonna let me throw a ball back and I'm gonna ask him, "What's up?" A senator's request that it have somehow paid off?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u172	A respectable president. Not really; in most respects, it is unchanged. But what added was the obligation of the government to produce an energy program, it's older, but it was part of the overall package, agreed on earlier, in the energy program, and there's a tool like an alcosystem project that can be proposed to fit electricity to the government's claims to be responsible. Before that, the government could actually do this according to their own wishes. Now it's mandatory, that's the difference. What is lacking is an explanation of how they will carry out this responsibility. As far as I know, they're not headed, at least in a clear way, that the public out here can approach them and assure themselves that wherever they live in this country, energy security will be assured for the future. As discussed here in this discussion, we do not even have a triple charge over the entire country and energy security as it was in the northeastern region today, and on the West, it is very strange. One of my first experiences as a senator, I was a deputy, being at a meeting in a committee where the Landsnet was literally begging for governments to put lines, where to put them. There was very little interest in the executives at that meeting, I thought, and not much has happened since. This was in the season of 20136/2016, and we are somehow in the process of inactivity, although it was well known at the time that this was a project necessary to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u173	President. These are very interesting points as a dog. A senator will come along and perhaps include in the discussion how we can guarantee this. I have found that it was interesting in the discussion of the defects in our network and this unstable region - Halla Hrund Logadóttir of energy manager has spoken of a clear resource policy as an important introduction. Resourceism can have many meanings, but it basically means that we explain how our people, the people, are to benefit from our resources. And how our energy production, based on natural resources, is useful to people so that equalits are cared for. Let us be absolutely clear that all of our talk about building flowering settlements across the country, where there is a strong working life that attracts people, is cut down alone if we don't guarantee these matters. They see every man. First, make sure that people are at the same level as the rest of the country and then that these areas are equipped to participate in energy exchanges as we do. It's in the eye. A set of resources with this goal would be a big step in the right direction. In such a course, it would likely also provide some kind of vision of how we imagine that rural communities benefit financially from activation, regardless of how they are activated. This is a subject that we are facing. It is urgent that we begin to look at ourselves in this direction because we are already in the position that there is a very high demand and we are likely to react to temptation there, because it exists, before this policy is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u174	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's speech. Now we were, me and what. A senator, together on the Environment and Transport Committee during the past term, and I criticized in my speech earlier today how late this bill appeared, who gave all signs that it was not the Minister's will to finish the case. Now there is an opinion about the preparatory groups of the Ministers who present the case, and again I rejoice in the early nature of it. At the end of the talk, I noticed that optimism was at the end of the talk. A senator, she hoped that the council would handle the project, to finish it. There has been a significant discussion of the approach to disembarking of innovations, and since the episode of a reservation. How do they strike the forwarding party's ideas? A senator? And what would the senator most likely think, if anything, to ensure that the matter will go out at this council so that if we fail to do this, we could begin to take on frame 4 instead of remaining trapped in these tire marks and possibly with a dead frame plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u175	Madam President. Two minutes, you say. It's kind of like whenever I allow myself to be optimistic about a talk, but I just stop being optimistic. - No, it's quite true, and I might want to improve better and say: "I just think that during the last term, this case came as late as it really was, like the case of wind policy, I don't remember what's called exactly the case, just because it was easier to say that it was easier to say that it didn't have time to finish it than to say that it doesn't have support in the government to finish it. Maybe there's some other tone now, I don't know, now I throw my optimism over to the top. Minister. As we know, during the autumn months, this government's record of cooperation, a number of cabinet ministers, the heads of the clans, was that the energy issues have been very extensive. V.E.G. The head of the parish and the minister of the seminar specifically mentioned it in response to my inquiry here on these matters, the box, and this of the categories, whether or not they would be submitted, that these cases had been given a great and heavy discussion in the control interview. That is why these warnings surprised me, for I interpreted his words there so that it was done. I don't know in myself, and I don't feel that I'm being pushed to the bottom of what's really going on in there to figure out what it takes to get it through. The reason for my optimism may be that I try to supersede myself over some disunition between the states on the subject and say: "We're all somehow approaching a common view of the interests of the country and of a nation that I hope will be over hurted by pride or what it is now in the way of the success of the government groups. That's how I'm getting close to this, but I also feel that I'm missing, as I mentioned in my talk, that there are other factors involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u176	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I think it's an important point, as it is. A senator came on at the end, about the interaction between the factors and the bills that make up the holistic image that should lie before us, that seems, already. We'll see, for example. that the electron bill is not shown, although it should have been listed by Congress, which, of course, does not belong to the highest degree. Minister of energy. There's one piece of puzzle in this microchip movie that's of utmost importance if we're going to get the transport system fixed. Then there are other factors that turn, e.g. That's how it works. That's how it goes down the street. But what I want to ask you is why. A member of Parliament: Is it more likely that, if all of them are for treatment at the same time, the situation will run out, the frame, and the interconnected issues? Or thinks so. A senator that it is possible to try to finish one thing and move on to the next? What I'm worried about in this context is that if we look forward to making the frame a success of the Environment and Transport Committee more important and less until spring, with vague results at the end of the season, we'll have other factors, such as the wind power bill and the power line, put on the pick and end up all the rest of the coast, and we won't be able to get into these things at the start of this election period, just like the entire last term, and then we'll be in the same state of 2023 families024 as we were in 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u177	Madam President. Yes, thank you for these questions and questions. You see, this is important. If we take, for example, four related cases, take a course in windpowers, take the electro-line, and take out the diffuser system, and take out the current power expansion - up to 10 MW, right? [[Up front.]] Yes, before that, the goal was 10. Anyway, it's all part of it. The results of these cases are based on my opinion of how the discussion of the box develops. We'll run up all the intense debate, strong, driven by stakeholders, that there's more to be activated because there's no energy, or we'll go that other way without being in - because this last case I mentioned is the only thing that's ever happened, the others are unappreciative. I'm having trouble seeing the movie and I'd like, in a perfect world, even in our real world, seeing the box being placed on top of this policy a little, at least above, we had discussed this and had taken some view of what it was like. I realize that there's a box of 3, 4 and 5, and maybe we have to talk about frames and decide every year for the next term, and maybe that's the idea, I just don't know, and it bothers me. But if it is, I don't think it's all that -- no, I'm not using the word waste of time, but I think it's strange to be discussing this now without that vision. The wind's getting a little space in this frame, the nature of the situation, we haven't decided how we're gonna keep it, we don't know. We haven't talked about it here. That's kind of the answer, I would have liked to see it work that way. Often there is a lack of time why we are in a situation similar to ours here, but that is certainly not the case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u178	President. So we start with the main thing: What's the matter with this council? This is to ensure safe energy households and, given the way we have set up our laws and rules, possibly small companies. That's the goal of an each energy program. But it's not an energy program, it's a plan for protection and energy efficiency. In fact, this is what is really missing, which is the way it uses energy. In my opinion, there's something that needs to exist first and should always exist. What do we need energy for? There are analyses of that, scenarios of the Power Institute. There are three scenarios there are listed; a scene of how energy demand will develop over the years if we keep pretty much like a lamp as before. It is a scene of green futures, which are energy exchanges and are occurring faster than the remainder of the situation, and this actually harmonizes with these goals for carbon contractions by 55% and noncarbonization. And then there's big industrialism. Then it is just a crude estimate of the amount of energy required in these three different scenarios. What may be lacking, and is a political decision, is how to acquire energy for these different scenarios and how the mixtures of these different forms are considered by the government, i.e. who is in charge of government policy. Are you going to increase or maintain the same high moat that is now? Should this decrease the share in total energy consumption or not? There is a key question about where we get the energy, not just from the priming options we can handle with this, but from exactly the energy available to us. Like what? paritaprevir Thomas Möller, earlier in his discussion today, has a high potential for increasing energy production through technological development. I'd like to look further to the future, hopefully not too long, since, in my opinion and scientists, we'll definitely have nuclear fusion. Then we don't need the inducers, the hydro-engineers, or the aquifers, or, yes, we'll probably use - not even thermals really. If so, it would be far more practical to have an uninhabited land, a much more practical one. When that future will work out, it is difficult to determine - just a very recent step, however, was taken e.g. in nuclear fusion experiments - 50 years or something like that, let's say that, that's just a gross guess. Technology is often developing faster than we expect from the Murphy Law. The breeding growth in technology is often repugnant to us, too, so that what we see may be a linear development up to 50 years could occur over 25 years, that is why. There's nothing too far in the future. The energy policy down there is until 260, if I'm not wrong, it's just smaller. So we're just there. Then perhaps we're in the reality that we're putting down a nuclear fusion plant here and there around the country, don't we need a lot of distribution systems because all the energy is produced locally? What does that mean in the overall context? Of course, we do not just take it to the banks and say that this will be in the future and that we want to bridge the gap and be safe, no matter what happens or not, we can guarantee the security of homes and smaller companies until then. But at the same time, we want to go to the earth with caution because the projects we make here have a lasting effect on the environment and nature, which will become an infinite amount of value for a future that does not need such a disorder to provide energy security. So, based on history and answers at the highest. A minister would appear to be a projection of a green future on which emphasis is being placed. That's all right. That is exactly what the State covenant indicates. According to the agency's stage films, it gives us a specific number on how much energy we need more. This number is already covered by the unused activation options, much less the energy options that could be updated by improved technology. So it will be interesting to see how this will be discussed in the Committee on this matter of Congress. I mentioned it earlier and in special discussions or unsubstantiated queries to the highest level. Minister to Iceland's largest electricity use, and later it was 2018. Since then, electricity consumption has declined, not only because of Covid, but also in 2019 C.E. It's something important. And it happens in hearsays that electrical coins are sweeping up a lot of energy, despite that. True, it is also a problem, especially with the electrical coin bitcoin, perhaps less so. That amount of electricity is a huge problem, and perhaps a little less than that, in Iceland's global energy use. But electrical coins are very interesting and not technology that we should just strike off the board as we do. But there are different sources of electrical change that use different amounts of energy, and we definitely should say no to the exports that use as much energy as bitcoin. It's totally useless, at least in my opinion, to make it that way. I'm going to end this with what's been talked about here during this discussion, that there's a democratic debate in connection with this synonym. But it says at the very beginning of the article: 'in the assessment of the environment, energy, and climate ministers, it is important that the General handles materially with regard to project proposals.' In other words, it is not necessarily to be handled but to deal with them in a material way. At any rate, I have the feeling that the execution of this council resolution at this time, in February -- certainly not much could be done before this council because of how the elections were, etc. - that there's definitely no time to finish this matter at this council. It's a big deal, and as they say here it's necessary to start the conversation, definitely. But it would help, if it should be a democratic debate on this matter, that the groups who present the material with specific warnings give us a clue to what they mean. It seems that some people say that they can take something from a protective party and put it in a waiting party, and others want to take it out of company and put it in a waiting party, and that's some kind of horse shop or something like that. Is that just completely undefined? It doesn't matter what it is, just that there's some debate between the members of the board: if you want to take this thing out of a reservation, then I want to take the rest, and then there's just some sort of negotiation between the management parties about the exact benefits that go away from each category? If we were to know this before the discussion, we might be a little more democratic and could speak about the proposal in a more open way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u179	Madam President. Perhaps there is no reason to extend the discussion of this suggestion much, but I want to come up and thank you. Parliaments for the conversation that has taken place here on this programme, on the protection and energy use of land. I think the discussion is a pretty good guide into a job every day. Environment and Transport Committee. The matter is the custody of the council, as stated here many times, and we also know that this is about A six - year - old proposal and a minister has decided to submit it. Yet, it has been made clear in the case of government supporters, both the General Assembly of the Agency and the All Group of the Left move's Council, to warn on the subject of the proposal. I agree with what. paritaprevir The request of Björn's Leví Gunnarsson that it might have been better to get better information about them in this earlier discussion here today. But well, that will be handled on the committee, and the members of the Parliament will likely be able to explain what these warnings mean. I have not yet received an answer from these same members of Congress to the question of how they intend to expand the waiting party, as it is called. I just can't see, Madam President, how to do it unless it's contrary to the methodology we've worked on in a frame plan so far. This is the third frame, as we call it, and I've had the chance to access online information, to the highest level. During the discussion earlier, the minister pointed to the phase 4 and 5 points, and it was very interesting, especially to see the stage of the 4th stage, we know that there are significant changes in the proposals for wind power and so on. Of course, it is vital that members of the Parliament work hard to get the matter out so that we will enjoy it. I'm afraid the situation will not be among the council members of the government opposition on this matter. I'm afraid she'll be somewhere else, because there's some reason why the frame has been stuck in the council for years. There's some reason for that, and she was exposed in the debate here today with the news panels. On the other hand, I wondered, though I go free to discuss the proposal of the committee and contribute to the success of a solution here at the High Council, whether or not. Councilmen, supporters of the government, will cooperate with us in the government's opposition to try to end this case or what that situation will be like on the committee. This is truly a rather unusual situation, Madam President. But there have been other developments here at the high General Assembly when it comes to energy efficiency and protection. I hope we'll get through this and finish it so that we can reduce the uncertainty, both in terms of the protection show and also in the coming up. It's about working on a plan and after an organization that everyone realizes, people and businesses, and then, as many have shown in the discussion here today, on both this proposal and in a special discussion earlier at this meeting, on the matter of delivery safety, on the transport system, on the security of energy supply to the public and to the companies other than the big business, and on the part of which we have to wind up in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u180	President. Hv. A senator mentioned a procedure on the box earlier in his discussion, and I feel that we need to discuss only the matter of how, in setting a frame plan, we may have become a child of our own. It was certainly a good step at the time it was set up, but things have evolved since then. As we have seen during the discussion, we need to understand why we put the specific activations into a energy group or a protection party. That's exactly what we understand, if we don't have a policy on where we're going, whether we're in the industrial policy, whether we're in a greener future or so. Therefore, it is helpful to get the box in as it is today, to put it and thus apply it in a certain amount of legal way. But it would not be natural, as we ask ourselves here at a council what has to be added to this process of evolution since it was first created, e.g. In terms of the government's obligation to supply energy, energy policy, and such? Where does it fit into the frame structure process?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u181	Madam President. Yes, I think that's exactly what we've been getting into this discussion here today: It's not gonna be enough to accept the third box or this council-sense proposal to make it any way we've done it here at the General Assembly, but it'll all have to be done. I've understood this so that since the introduction of the third energy package in Icelandic law in 2019, there is still a great deal of activity in the laws that are about the consumer protection and the security and other factors. That's what needs to be there, too, so it works out. It's a complicated arrangement, but somehow it must be done, and it needs to try to minimize the uncertainty of the system. The dramatic change in the electricity sector here in the last 15 years, at least 10 years, is that we have stopped running the market and have a demand market. We have a demand for some of the most valuable goods that can be sold today, in Western lands, and in the whole world. In the past, governments had to go out of their homes to pick up the buyers. It's all changed, and we have to adapt our system, both the legislature and how we put our priorities in energy use, accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u182	Mr. President. This is an interesting point of view, this with forwards and demand; there is absolutely basic concept in how we approach the economic society. Ideas that come from the lack of thought are ideologies that create value based on lack of value, perhaps not in the technical concept, but if there is a shortage, demand for this limited resource is higher than if it is determined to provide energy security, as the third energy package says, to homes and small companies. The rest will just have to take care of themselves, the big ones, and the things. It can compete in a competitive market and play with what is available, but it is not a lack of place in the homes. I think it's the ideologies we have to reveal by talking about it and making sure it doesn't work out, i.e. Displacement to homes. I understand, with the third energy package, the obligation of the government to stop it. But, hey. A senator noted that in the legal environment, it seems to lack the follow-up and the explanation for how governments guarantee it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u183	Madam President. Perhaps the simplest way to understand and deal with this task is to think about it as two markets. The supermarket certainly covers some 85%, reminds me, of the energy it is today, and is truly competitive and governed by world markets, even though treaties are long-term. Then there's the rest that matters anyway, there's the public in the country, there's the homes in the country, and there's all the other companies. Growth that contributes to a wide range of jobs, a country's country's land, and energy security - that is the part that needs to be fully established by the government in terms of legalization and policy, how to guarantee it. It seems to me that, after the discussion today, there are some things that are not done on that side of this matter, and it is very important that the lawgiver go into that and even the highest. Minister and executive, because we have to be all right with that. The competition will take care of itself. The price will only rise because product is unique and is one of the best things you can buy. But we have to make sure that people and businesses do not have a systemally power shortage, which is actually caused by human energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u184	Madam President. I would like to introduce my second talk quickly to what I think is the task ahead. Environment and Transport Committee. During the last assembly, in the spring of 2021, when this same matter was being handled, much talk came up, and it is necessary to analyze what is available there. However, they had also been dealt with indiscriminately. If it's possible to finish the case and get ahead of it, and the forwards of the forward strategies and groups of greens are not so grown that the case dies on the basis of them, then I think that's all the basis for doing this thing fairly fast. If that's what it's willing to do, I think it will totally change all positions, both the Minister, the Ministry, and the Senate, for the next step, which is a framework of 4. I think there'd be a lot of work to do. I guess that's why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, is assigned to direct the situation through an environmental and transport committee. I think there'd be a lot of work to get close to, so people were going to finish it fast. We've had an excellent practice finishing complicated matters quite quickly. They're a lot of things over the Covid period that have been complex and extensive but done relatively quickly through the committee they were employed in. And why do I say that? I'm afraid from experience that if the matter remains to be handled at the end of the council - I'm afraid that the windmill case will be revealed and the line will be established and any other cases that fill into this picture we're going to discuss - but if we're going to have this case under discussion at the end of the council, it's much more limited than if we come near it so that we're going to finish it fast and well. I believe that differences within the governments must be the nature of a person's ability to figure out relatively fast who the landing might be. The network is now divided into six members of the board of directors and three positions of government. Of course, the government parties do only what they want to do with this matter. And if there's no meaning behind this, then it's the first time to show up, and it's not being wasting time with the Committee on them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That's why I insist. A minister to push closely toward the head of the Party's Committee, Vilhjálmur Árnason, the fierce senator, to drive at speed. There's a big deal going on here. This matter has been presented countless times. A lot of reviews have been sent by a lot of reporters, very thought - out on all the reviews made during the last council. The case is actually ready for the final processing of a committee, just as amazing as it may sound. So on this occasion, I would like an e-mail agent on the Environment and Transport Committee to win the case quickly, since we will be ready to take a stand on it and finish it, now or throw it off the board, if that's the result. I think it is realistic that one day in mid - March the case would be available for future coverage. No more time is required than within the environment and transport committee. I just wanted to put it in at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u185	President. I'm going to finish up in this discussion that I brought up against it. paritaprevir The Sveinbjarnardóttir Þórunn of the frame work song, it may have become a child of the time how we work a protective and energy efficiency program, that is, in fact, one of many puzzles that now has to be won and we need to see the other puzzles to figure out how they fit together. At any rate, I think it's relatively difficult to make this proposal for this council, but I think it's not entirely necessary to do it either, but it's not a life thing, but I don't at least feel that it's part of the project that it's part of the plan, it's the intention of starting the conversation in a larger context, not only about a protection and energy efficiency plan, but also the energy policy that the government needs to provide. Where's the energy coming from? Where is she going? What are we going to do in green energy policy or big-time policy, what is the ratio? Is there a technology update plan to make better use of the energy in the production we already have? V.E.G. Minister says there's a bill on the way. This is one of the puzzles we need to gather to view the overall picture. It is definitely necessary to contribute this case, completely booked, and perhaps add everything very easily, and the picture becomes very clear during this relatively short period of time left by this council. I'm going to let me question the fact that I'm going to give some experience about how everything moves really slowly here. I'm not so optimistic. I say like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in earlier, if this is the case in April, May to reach some conclusion, there is no way that it could go on, not out of the opposition, as mentioned earlier, but because the management parties are pulling a matter from protective to waiting and from temporary use. It seems to be the bitebone, what can remain in each category. It is only this classic negotiation technique to try to pull to the pieces that the other party wants to least lose from a reservation or from a colony, and then it ends somewhere by accepting the benefits of such a most painful movement into the waiting party. We do not know whether the next conclusion would be interesting to hear about these warnings that have come, put it into a democratic debate about what is being said, what are the advantages. I believe that the government's authority can completely add words to this discussion. But we all know that the result will be what the government decides, and then all members of the government. We become interested in seeing how this case is playing. But that's exactly what I remind me of, it's not enough to just agree and say, "We're going to put these benefits into a brand-new party, this one in a reservation, and keep this one in a waiting party. " We need to see what are certain features being set up in a novelty class. For what, then, is the orc going to go that way? Just about, I'm not asking for an accurate analysis of the fact that this company or the other is coming and will use the exact energy but surly. Is this going to green power? Is this going into the big business? Does this go into the energy security of various parts of the country? Such analysis, just general classification of how energy can be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members for the discussion, and they also thank the government officials for showing understanding that I needed to be quick on this occasion. I've got some information on what happened during the conversation when I wasn't in the field and I feel like a brain, I just have to say right now, that the discussion was busy and upbuilding, and I like it. Of course, much may be revealed when this is the case, i.e. After all the questions have been raised, it was also related to a discussion. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was ahead of us this morning. We were talking about the position in the power market. Away from all wanderings and such things, it's totally obvious, it's a job we're going to and would've done anyway. Of course, this is not a case that cannot be added. Many people naturally say that there is a need for the bigger picture, and it is very important to have as much money as possible, but you will always be able to add and say: There is more to it. As we have seen, the trend is very rapid in this and in a very large number of ways to look, but again, because of this work too, but also for the nation, we went into the green bookwork that is being worked very hard. And what will the Green Book do? A green book is a standard, not a policy, to draw out the position of the transport system. Where are the tails and where are the weaknesses? Where are the bottle necks, and what can be done to get better use? How much are we doing? What can be obtained e.g. with the bill I reported asking for the incision? How much do we need in our energy exchange? This should appear in the green book to help you. Councilmen and people, for I hope there are more members than just senators who are interested in this important matter to shape their minds and make a decision. We haven't completed a course in nine years. The first stage was adopted 1999◯2000. The law expects less than every four years to be met by step. Many changes have been made since man's beginning, and much will have changed in the future. This type of work is open and beneficial, and many certainly do. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was referring to the fact that only now at the council are very many reports because of the frequent nature of the case. Most rocks have been rolled. Although it is important to go over things again, we still have a huge amount of data to base our decisions on. It's totally undisputed. I don't know if there was some misunderstanding, but I haven't talked clearly enough, but I thought it was a problem. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson speaks as if I felt that this should be some topic of discussion, and we should certainly not complete the task. I'm just calling attention to the fact that there's a huge misunderstanding. I said, I thought in my speech, clearly that it was important for people to finish it. Indeed, I have been a member of the committee at the council many times. It is only natural for members of Congress to say: " We'll have so little time, it's too little time to settle a case, and you're not sure about it. You can't say anything about this. It's going to be very early. There are months ahead of you. A committee to win these matters so that time is not the reason if you do not want to finish these things. What is difficult in this - people talk about different viewpoints and categories, yes, with no doubt it's difficult. I don't think it's easy, no matter what person gets this assignment. I think for a few, it would be very simple to make those decisions, especially if the person had already considered them. There's always pros and cons. Things like that. By means of the wind, we are being helped. In recent years, that situation has changed dramatically. It is possible to produce far more energy from windmills than before. One cigar can produce 250 yards high, as far as I know, 12 MW. Just to put it into context, Meriad's 710 MW. But as I mentioned in my background, there is no rose without thorns. There are both benefits and defects in the wind. This is all that humans have to weigh. They decided to go that way, i.e. working this way, and I think most people say it's wise to approach it this way. What has been missing in this process is that the council has not finished. That's the problem. So can people say that teaching, or government, is the norm, but the main thing is that it has not been completed. It's no secret, and that's why I was pointing the trigger. Parliaments on the website frame. That's where the project management is now, because it's a misunderstanding that it's the Ministry that works, it's a project administration. The project management calls to the special groups, and the task management is doing it. Without a doubt, it will. A panel or even more than one calls the project management to get the information needed directly from it. But I think it's a good example that she's got this on this website where you can look at these things. There are also issues that can be considered on the Agency's web, so information is available. But we need to make a decision. Why do we need to make a decision? We have a very lofty goal on climate matters. Even if it wasn't, it would be important to make this up for progress in society. We're in a unique position, Icelanders, because we made energy exchanges one and two. We have boasted about this, and we have been envious of it for decades, perhaps hundreds of years, for decades. Now we are going to take more ambitious steps, and we need to complete that assignment. That's the only way we're gonna do it. If one feels that it is possible to do so in some other way, then all that is to be said is to tell about it. It's important to talk about this, but it's important to me that we are judged by what we do, not by what we talk about. Then it seems obvious to me that better use of the energy, including the energy, would be needed. in the transport system, these primarys include not only the enlargement of activation but also the simplicity of the thermal pumps. It's not exhaustive. There's a lot of smart wording here and some other things. Then there are things that we've talked about, and what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason made a special consideration this morning, that we need a regular work that works, of course, is always a work of men. But we need to make sure that we are not in the position of burning fossil fuels to produce energy for our homes. It's just obvious. That's the job. We need to think about it, not just for the next winter, we need to think about it for the future. We also need to make sure that every place in the country has access to green energy. Why? Because if we tell any part of the country that it doesn't have access to it, we're saying that the national part is not involved in this green energy revolution, because it's a revolution. This is very exciting. It is not to be approached in such a way that it is difficult to fulfill this commission. But it has to be done and done, and we will be helped by technology. For example, we have a number of possibilities with cycle economys, we have energy that comes from both data plants and other major users we are not using. The COfix project that I know very well began when I was chairman of the Power Institute, is an example of a very exciting project that many peoples, or most of the people in it, look especially at but the intelligence, which is our most important resource, and, fortunately, it will not be emptied there. Although this bill, the nature of the matter, is not exactly settled, it is the thing that will move on in solutions to the location we want to be, which is reaching the climate targets.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u187	President. Reaching the energy exchange is extremely important, but only economically. We're importing oil for 100 billion a year. There is no petty amount of money when talking about product exchanges, etc. Reaching an independent energy import is an economic example. I look forward to seeing such information coming from sources of information, including the Ministry of Energy or Others, into the work at this council-sounding proposal and the future Prime Minister's bill showing us predictions of the need for energy for the coming years, information to show us the need for further activation or technological development in current activation or wind power or anything else. Maybe it's just an update to my distribution system of less than one plant or something like that. The images offered to achieve results in as short as possible time at the most economically and with the greatest interest in the energy security of all the peoples. It's not a small project. This is an important project, so that the remaining time for a project of this size disappears very quickly, especially because it is Easter there and the political elections intervening. It is a whole month that leaves the council only for things that are not fun. [[Up front.]] Simply put, we need to be physically available in order to do the Committee job and so on. It's just the situation as it is, there's nothing more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u188	A respectable president. Just the last words: I now have some professional experience, and I have even. being president of the Environment Committee and of many members of the Parliament, in a position of government, and more. If people can't get it done at this time because they don't have time, they don't do much, just with all due respect. I've been here since 2002, and I don't give anything to argue that there's not enough time. I reasoned with them, and I got critical about the date, it was supposed to come on March 31, that there was only a very great chance that I would betray that - which I did and did. But in this case in particular, there is an enormous amount of information, and there is no problem. People, I know, study things fast and hard and put themselves inside them. I set out long ago to help even the green book. In this and the Department of Energy is about to bring information both in the Green Book and naturally to members of Congress and the Ministry. We will do whatever we can to get it done. But just so I'm done with it. A senator spoke of, the importance of economic energy exchange, it's not just an economic issue. This is also a national security issue. It's an environment too. What is the reason why humans are always talking about what we're making, why is that? That's because we have green energy and it's very desirable to be in production with green energy. So if people are really talking about the climate and we're talking about the world and we're supposed to do something about it, then we're doing good by making it in Iceland. If we can get the production that's in Iceland somewhere else it's not good for climate, so I'm sure. It's totally clear. I don't know if there's any place - hopefully there's a lot of people getting in the same place as us, and there's a state of environmental energy elsewhere, but moving it from Iceland, that's not what we're going to do about climate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u189	Madam President. I'm trying to get this thing away from me in a perfunctory way as far as time goes. There's a lot of information that needs to come out there. If they come clearly and clearly, this could just happen. However, from experience, information has often not been provided as accessible as one would have wanted to make such an informed decision. It would be very good if not always cut into the seminary, so it didn't have to start at the beginning. That would be very good for, for example. such a thing. The green book may come and show it just black in time. That'd be great, and then it'll just be over, no problem. But from experience, things often move much slower here than we'd like. That's the only reason I mention it. There's nothing else behind it. In terms of moving production from Iceland somewhere else and somehow getting worse for the environment, it's not right. That means we have the energy that's left over here instead of something else that could be used for, for example. environmentally friendly. We are more competitive about environmentally-friendly energy than most other places in the world that would do what we would then be to produce instead of environmentally competitive and competitive energy at that level and then would be a relatively open phase of environmental production. Then the application of such projects would be at least No carbon share. We're not in complete vacuum here, since this is just a trade for one project for another. It's a bigger merger we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u190	A respectable president. This reasoning doesn't work. It's clear what the problem is. That's what's been done international, and I know it very well from my previous job, where we talked a lot about climate. The problem is, everyone is being produced for things, and it is often inexpensively and with energy sources that are fossil fuels. That's the problem. But our largest production units are produced by renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u191	Exquisite responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u192	- It has nothing to do with responsibilities, that's all. - That's what it's like. We are, for example. with aluminiums that all have their policies to become non-carbon objects. There is no doubt that if that activity or any other activity goes anywhere else, all of us are likely to have a very bad effect on the climate. Very bad effect. The reason we are now in the ideal position for humans to be knocking on as never before, for it has been rather difficult to get a foreign investment in the country, is that if there is energy, then it is environmental and renewable, and they want to go into such production. The turtle is going there, and she's already gone there. Of course, we cannot do everything. As the situation is now, this is a huge demand. I hope it won't be endless, hopefully when people have gotten it all over the world. But that may not be the main point, because we have enough work to do when it comes to our climate goals and we're also going to take advantage of the opportunities here, and I think we're generally happy about it. The important thing is to start the project, and I appreciate it. A senator so that he is ready for that assignment, and I'm happy to do it, and I trust the council to do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u193	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a compromise on the laws on the path of loyalty and pollution. The objective of the bill is to increase the understanding of the laws and improve the effectiveness of government surveillance, with the goal of ensuring the security of people in a way that is loyal to them and promoting wholesome environments. The bill is reassigned with several changes, for reviews to the council and new laws on the environmental assessment of implementation, No. 111/2021, as well as changes due to recent environmental and resource decision-making committees. The main focus of the bill is: First, to strengthen further the privileges of a Minister in the Regulation on the minimum requirements of education, training and training courses for those in need of knowledge and expertise in the field of disease, quick-help and security, and tests to prove knowledge. These minimal requirements are important in ensuring the safety of the public and the public. we deal with swim instructors, pool guards, and swimmers. They aim to make sure that the partner can save people from pools, use quick help and resuscitation, as there is an important safety role in swimming and bathing places. These terms also apply to people who work for holes or fluorescent skin or who are treated with needle sticks and who need to know and be able to use anti-infectives. Second, the bill is further explained by government surveillance and extensive monitoring of activities and activities that can cause contamination or threats of loyalty and is not subject to permit or registration. This is not a new surveillance; the monitoring duties of the EEA and the health - care committees of the rural organisations and the duties of the organisations under observation are under way. Important things include it is clear that the obligation of surveillance parties to provide information is applicable to all activities under the law. Examples of activities and activities that would be involved here are: open playgrounds that need to comply with the regulations on the safety of the arctic and game areas and their monitoring, social events which must meet regulations in the regulation on noise boundaries, hygiene of areas and open areas, distribution and use of seyrium, and the area where health committees are authorized to implement measures to reduce the risk of disaster in the environment and to ensure general air quality. It is important that the Rapporteur be able to use the instruments that the law and regulations are taking, and there is a need for the work being carried out by the law. Third, the bill suggests changes in the law to explain the exact time of recycling activities dependent on the EEA's work permit or by the National Competent Committee. To this end there is a mathematical basis for such activities in Annex IV with the law, which helps to clear the switch between these two governments. Fourth, there is clear authority for the EEA and the National Institutes of Health to provide a reminder to implement a procedure according to their own instructions, such as the work programme. In addition to the above, changes are proposed in line with new laws on the environmental assessment of activities and estimates, No. 111/2021, and to strengthen the Agency's currency rights on registration of contaminated employment, which includes Part of the government policy of increasing electronic administration. There is also permission to apply administrative fines to individuals or legislators who do not respect the scoring practices of pollution prevention, resting areas, reporting criteria or measures as well as the environmental information regulations to improve their effectiveness. It's not expected to be a financial impact at the state fund for the bill. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-10-37.u194	Borist has received a letter from the university, industrial, and innovation secretary where they want to ask for an invitation to give a written answer to a spell query. 317 of Europe's Space Institute, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. There have been letters received from the social and workforcer requesting every time to provide written answers for the application of this application. 204, about the increase in free income from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. 201, on the development of reform tools in the State's Reexamination Research and Social Security Status, from Hallyru Mogensen, requested. 313, for the incidence of disability, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. 330, about non-saturable habitats, from the Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, and at last to ask for cover. 309, on the appeal of the Court's decision to calculate the calculation of special progressives, from the Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir.
