ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, infrastructure and social and workforce ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u2	Mr. President. By the end of February, it was the highest. The secretary of business is a public statement about the possible actions of the government to meet the situation of people who are having trouble because of difficult economic circumstances. The minister said that the government had clearly identified the situation and was aware that certain groups would be in trouble because of growing interest and inflation, claiming that economic action would be under attack. She even laid. for the high quality of individual articles, e.g. In the fishing industry, taxation would be taxed, that banks would profit to subsidize interest on apartment loans would be placed on higher bank taxes, and that the growth reforming system should be applied with greater weight. This was a new and refreshing tone that we in the United States were quite satisfied with. We feel that it is necessary to take action to meet the homes that are now caught by growing interest and inflation. It is not likely that this will now exaggerate with a period of war in Ukraine. In fact, we have proposed a synonym, along with other groups of government opposition. The secretary of the trade also demanded that these ideas be supported by her chairman and members of the council and that the forwarding party would attack to establish these proposals of support within the other government groups. However, after a slight follow-up, it was found that these suggestions were made by the vice president of the advance Party that seemed to have no sound basis for groups of colleagues, either independent party or left green. That's why I'm asking the highest. Enforcement: Were these statements made by the vice president and minister of the forwarding party, or are they supported by him and the members of the council as she claimed? Has the media submitted these ideas at the government table, or have they already been rejected there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator setting up the policy and viewpoint of our candidates. Of course, as political agents, whether members of Congress or Ministers, we should express what we think and where we should go. That's what's at the top. One minister said that at a time when the banks grew up greatly - I think she said that there was a lot of healing, which, of course, humans can only think about in the large context of things. But there is no question that there was a lot of money. Then she encouraged the banks. She encouraged the banks to return some of these funds to clients. And what happened? What happened? Senator? [[Up front.]] [[To the point: They grew.]] And if they didn't, the council would have a device. Bank tax may be reimbursed and tax, income, or so on. But the banks didn't go up. They did not raise their interest as a result of the traveling overseer's growth. In other words, they took into account what a businessman said and applied completely what a businessman said. So it hasn't been that we've taken the action to punish the banks. But we need to keep on observing, huh? A senator, and I know we share that opinion. We need to monitor the groups that are obviously more affected by inflation, by progressive prices, and by circumstances that may arise, whether in a housing market or elsewhere. I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u4	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister goes around it like a cat around a hot grin. Of course, banks grew, the Lands Bank increased by 0.5% of the higher 0.75 percentage points. [[Up front.]] But what was of interest to the minister was that he spoke of the council taking over. He did not say that the government had a device, because there may be more things here at the council, even though there is no more in the government for these suggestions. The first question is: Will they have his view of using the most intimate measures to meet the most vulnerable groups? Does it use support within the rest of the governments? If not, will he bring the matter to the council himself so that the council can decide what to do, and in what circumstances, then, the government? V.E.G. Minister will only be on this very minute which remains to answer the question: Will the collaborators support a minister's proposal, and will he bring it to the council if she does not have support within the government? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u5	A respectable president. Of course, it doesn't work out for the United States and what. Senators coming out all day screaming and talking about growing up in this country when the fact is... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] - When it's true... President. [[Answer the question.]] Don't I have a minute to answer? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u6	The president asks the senators to give the highest commission. Minister sound to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u8	Is this something delicate?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u9	This is so that growth is not very high in Iceland, although it has increased. And what's wrong. There was a senator who said - yes, the harbor bank rose by 0.75, but the banks only increased by 0.4 or 0.5. [[Up front.]] In other words, it is less than it used to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u10	Is there anything to tell the advance party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u11	As a result, it is fact that the banks listened to what a businessman said and went... [[...there's nothing to note...]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u12	The president must ask members of the Parliament to give a speaker a sound to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u14	There's no way there's five senators...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u16	The president must ask senators to honor public speakers and members of Congress to keep silent while the speaker finishes his speech, not four, to speak out of his seat at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u17	Give him an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u18	I'd like to say what. The senator and the people here have expressed concern that, of course, when people hear the truth, they feel hurt. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The fact is, the banks listened. The fact is: The growing stage in the country is lower than that of many times before. The fact is that inflation is growing, and we need to be on guard. We'll be ready for that in the government, and I know that a lot of people here at the council will be willing to join us in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u19	A respectable president. Of course, it is tempting to continue this inquiry asked earlier. It's obvious that it's coming to the highest level. Web Minister something out of balance. But okay. I'm going to talk to you about a matter that's in the close-up company here at the capital area, an area as high as the highest level. A minister should know. I hope that it won't upset him, even though I ask about the Hellish oath, but I am one of those who marvel at me in the long and repeated close of Hellishes this winter. I just want to quote the words of the Mayor of WhoTypes where it says, as all of us: We have shown all the understanding that roads can close, but the feeling is that the Hellish oath has closed more and longer this winter than before, and most of all, it is the feeling that it is open later and that the end is longer. I'm saying that, too. Since 1966, I've been going a lot of times a week, many times a week in Alfus, my second home society, and I know exactly what I'm talking about here. So I want to turn the mayor's words to my wife when she says: "It's that feeling that it's not being done enough. I would like to point out that in the last ten years, there has been a huge migration of people east of the mountain, to Hoatotype, but also to Aargour. We'll be blessed to see that large companies make a gap there, but this means more traffic to and from the middle of the area, between these areas, except that tourism has improved significantly and hopefully starts to do it again. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Are there any plans to take into account what meteorologists have said, that we underestimate increasing weather ethicism, including In this area? Has a minister found with the roadmaking process and entered it to see if someone else is shoveling and whether these words are being said on the part of the local people? Most of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has any thoughts about reevaluating plans for tunnels under the Hellish oath, if there's anything in his pipes about reinventing that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u20	A respectable president. It is good to have an opportunity to discuss these subjects that have naturally been well discussed. You're right. According to one senator, over the years there are more and more people who rely on getting between parts of the country and perhaps even changing their community, more expectations. We often forget that we live in Iceland, and we feel that we should have this winter service and our expectations grow. I have a complete understanding of that. I don't think it's a feeling, I think it's a reality that the Hellish oath has been closed both more and longer at this time than for a long time. In the last 12 years, I have been driving quite a bit to Reykjavík, and I think I have been weathered more often in February than earlier, so to speak. We have naturally, because people have been complaining here and there because of this fact, looking for information from Vega. The fact is, it was reinvigorated. A new contractor began. The only thing that has really changed since last year is that the weather is much different. What I think we can say right now in February, and that's just because you're interested in the weather, that instead of the lowness coming and walking over to four, five hours and then there's a chance of shoveling, the weather's been going on for up to two days, and maybe it's a big storm, 25 meters a second. Another thing is, and it's also unusual and happens at long intervals, that it's colder, because snow has been over the southwest corner all the time, it doesn't come and goes as it has been. So the snow has grown, and it has been mild - tempered. Unfortunately, the answer is that the weather is unusually bad in Iceland at this time, and I think everyone is trying to do their best to keep the door open.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u21	A respectable president. Yeah, there's a lot of weather, but when the weather's like a cool weather. A senator describes it, so we must ask: What will the government do about it? Has this been added regarding messages made to the road to improve the ministry? As I mentioned earlier, the mayor of Whoville said: "The feeling is that it's opened later. " It's shoveled differently. Now it's the highest. A minister has said that nothing has been changed, but is there not a reason to change the course if the weather is in such a way that it is closing over the pagans much more easily? There's more tranq than there's ever been before. I want to reiterate my question about a tunnel. At one time, 2012, I recall that it was a tunnel was examined. There was then a matter of opinion. Things have changed since then. There's a lot more traffic. We are calling for traffic security, and we are calling for a payment for the group of people who live east of the mountain and have to come here to the capital area. [[The president calls.]] So I want a minister, depending on his opinion, that tunnels will be better examined. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u22	A respectable president. I have not recently examined the potential of a tunnel, but I remember that in this discussion, if it was knocked off the table, it would be out of control. ... witha verygreatheat and, actually, a lot of water in there. But I've asked a few questions myself, maybe I should start calling out for an answer, it wasn't because of the weather, if in some way you could build some sort of road barracks over the worst areas. The fact is, in those weathers that have been present, they wouldn't have helped anything because the weather of the Sand class is often the worst, but not on Hellishön, so you just say things the way they are. The fact is, maybe the only thing that's changed the public defense, has it? The rescue forces that often help, as well as the police, have had increased pressure to close. And when the worst was happening the other day, people actually closed down an hour late and there were dozens of cars stuck, which then took more than 24 hours to release. So I don't think we have to accept that Iceland's weather is at least a road, and now in February it was particularly shitty, but I hope it's over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u23	Mr. President. The vast majority of Western weaknesses in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the consequences for which man envisions the international community have been the particular amount of Europe's energy from Russia, especially gas. Thus, the importance of the production of energy for the Western countries has been shown to be enough for itself. It is clear that this will not just happen by setting up windmills all over the strip. It is important, however, that these countries are increasingly shifting from coal to oil and, especially, gas. Therefore, there is much discussion in the United States and in many European countries today that countries that can, in turn, need to increase their energy production. The president of the United States declared that the country's supply of oil would be released by that day. You're going back to the gas and oil industry in Alaska. In Britain, there is much discussion about the need to use the resources there, especially in the form of gas. Norwegians have now released 53 new oil and gas search permits in Norwegian jurisdiction. It's out of the question, in the highest opinion. Ministers to abandon plans to ban oil and gas research in Icelandic jurisdiction? The government's plans were never reasonable, they have done nothing for the environment, but now this too has become a matter of Western status in a changed world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u24	A respectable president. The government's contract says that oil will not be taken out during the election season, but it does not permanently prohibit the use of such possibilities in the future - which would be a different decision in my mind. I agree that these things need even. to look into the context of the safety issue and in the context of a possible sovereignty case. But why don't we just look inside here at the council and face the fact that the General Assembly of Iceland does not complete a frame plan to last nine years? Things are being discussed in the wrong order if we, without any developments in this discussion, are starting to turn us to oil and gas. What faces us now, including. Because of the economic impact of the armed conflict, we are being able to reach within the country, here at home, to use sustainable energy to meet our energy demand for the future. What has to do with the possibility that, in the future, the possible use of oil sources in Icelandic economic law should come back in priority. What this government has said is that it is not on the agenda. Now the government has set up a frame plan, and I think we must come together and find a way to complete its payment so that we can follow through on turning to the fourth stage and using the benefits of sustainable energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u25	Mr. President. I am quite satisfied with this answer because I felt the highest. Ministers should be this way, rather, moving away from the current government bill on government consultation, the ban on the search and processing of oil and gas in Icelandic jurisdiction. So we keep out the hope that there will be a partial revision. I can say for sure, too, with the highest power. Minister on the importance of making better use of environmentally, renewablely, domestic energy, but I don't really think it's possible. Minister to blame the council. It is not as if the government has done much to turn to the council and submit to its administration in order to set matters up and complete them. Why hasn't the government been able to complete a frame plan? That's much more of a question. Could it not be that there is a national problem? Another question for the highest. Ministers on the response to the situation today: Is it possible to reduce, although only temporarily, the amount of fuel required to reduce the high prices predicted in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u26	A respectable president. The reason why I am stressing the conclusion at the council on a frame plan may be the existence of the law on this subject, which was in its nature cross - political agreement to find a new way of handling and subsidizing the energy resources we had in the country, how we wanted to sort them out, what we wanted to protect for the future, whom we wanted to use, and who we were going to look after. If the political treatment of these cases continues in a conflict, I believe that the very basis for the legislation is breaking and it is now short enough to take away legislation and just return to the old layer and take one option at a time. If the conference treatment of a frame plan remains in political conflict, then the principle behind the law is no longer in place. Then there is not the agreement to follow that course. That's why I say, this time it's going to be a big challenge for the council. [[The president calls.]] This cannot be based solely on the will of a greater part of the governments at any one time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u27	A respectable president. Inflation is on its way, and the flame of inflation is on its way. In this discourse, in the middle of Covid, it said the highest. Secretary of finance asking me that he would have little concern about inflation. I think that there must be a change now, and today there are increases in necessities. Who is the primary target of this? Yeah, the worst place in the social security system. In a letter as highest. In 2013 a minister of finance sent to seniors during the election campaign.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ We want older ones to enjoy the benefits of their labor. Governments should nurture the elderly, not burden them with unfair taxation. He also said: We're going to cut off the income ties of a pension. It is truly a matter of righteousness. What is the situation now eight years later after a stable session? Secretary of finance for the government? Pension pay cuts the pensions off at 45%. What does it mean in English? Yes, that means a person with a 200,000 k. In a pension fund, you'll get 64,000 bucks. - 64,000. $200,000. in the social security system. It's almost 70% tax and decrease. Is that normal, topv? Secretary of finance? I ask: What did a minister mean by these words: We are going to remove the income of a pension, which is truly a matter of righteousness? Is he going to deal with the massive loss of his pension system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u28	A respectable president. In the social insurance insurance system as it was then built, a group of reforms called basic pensions, long in good condition, became unmerited. In our day, we felt that there was a lot of work to be done when Joanna's government started to cut the basics of life. He is the one I was referring to in an quoted letter, and we immediately entered into it as one of the first works of the Independent Party and the forwarding that was elected 2013 to eliminate the revenue of basic life. That's what we did. So we made promises in a house, but we did much more. We reduced the percentages. We reduced any number of declines that had been introduced into Social Security in 2009-2013, and then we did more because in 2016 we received new rights that have been shown to have increased the benefit of social security to those who paid more money than what happened in terms of salary growth. This is the main reason why social security in the pension system has grown from nearly 40 billion in 2013 to about 90 billion today. That's a 50 billion - billion - dollar return to pensioners. We're spending more than 10% of all of the government's income in the pension business, about 90 billion expenses. This isn't a legal system. This is a reform system designed to support those who have not been able to use their years to build up their pension rights. The plagues. A senator will discuss, let's just seriously discuss how much it would cost the public taxpayer to take it away from everything. I guess it would cost us well over 100 billion a year to take all the damages and take them away and change the social security system that it can never be. Is it really the Polish movers to send benefits to people completely independent of entrance and economy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u29	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is turning out of the way he is used to. He's talking like everybody's in the same basket. The worst are not in this basket. The worst-cased people are not in this basket. There is no power to buy and no power to buy. I'm the highest. Secretary of finance to prove it. How can a person gain power when he has a 4.6% rise to 6.2% inflation? How is it, if we take it for example, that now property taxes are getting out of control? In fact, it is complained that property taxes rose by 8% above inflation. On whom? The worst of them. And to turn out just and say everyone's having it so amazing is just a twist. I'm talking about the worst of it. You always say there are so few people, they're so few, but why don't you do anything for them? If they're so few, it must cost a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u30	A respectable president. I'm gonna let it lie between parts who's turning out of here and who's not. But that's right. A senator says that in this year 2022, as we see increasing inflation, the lowest paying of the people and those who have at least been threatened. You're absolutely right. I'm not gonna argue with you about that. This is just my saying that we need to worry about the inflation caused by these people. As we look back on the 2013 results and ask ourselves, " How has my country been able to secure the power of money improved, the result is clear and measurable? ' With this group, we have been able to lift heavily. When my comments are referred to that I say that the group is small, that it is not large, it is being referred to as my statement that there are few in the pensions of social security that have no other income than those that come from public security. There are very few people who have no pensions, no remunerations, no financing, no forwards of any other kind but the social insurance benefits. [[The president calls.]] These are few individuals, but we have been lifting up especially with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u31	V.E.G. A minister of justice expressed special concern that refugees from other places, from Ukraine, will misapplied the efforts made by a neighboring state of Ukraine on their border to cross the border. A word of speech told the Minister, by permission of the president: ▪ Many countries are concerned that people who do not carry their health are taking this opportunity to enter Europe. The same minister has not only doubts about the integrity of the refugees who are now working hard to get out of Ukraine and in shelter, he also turns his eyes and spears to refugees in Iceland, and accuses them of blocking the way of the Ukrainians to safety in Iceland, in fact, that they are preventing refugees from being taken to the U.S.A. He calls attention to an emergency situation in the Foreign Institute of Iceland and promotes hostility toward these groups, stirring them up against one another. I've seen an interview with the highest. Social and workforce minister where he holds out that the National Institute for Refugees will not stand in the way of being welcomed by refugees from Ukraine. So I take it to say that a minister disagrees with claims at the highest level. Minister of Justice, at least as far as the service is being blocked. I'm not asking the minister's position on these claims, I would like the minister to express himself when the highest officer of foreign affairs shares these tasks with the highest level. Social and employment secretary, expressed himself in this way about these vulnerable groups, as it really is. Isn't it against him on the side of the board? Is this dog-skiing thing supposed to be allowed to stand entirely unfashioned by the government? [[The president calls.]] Can this just for the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u32	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for taking up the cause of escape from Ukraine because of this tragic war in which we all agree that it is terrible not only for the people living there but, in fact, for the way they threaten world peace. I've made it clear, topv. Secretary of state, commander. Prime Minister, also the highest. Ministers of Justice and other ministers, that Iceland will receive people from Ukraine. That is the point, and we will, of course, stand. I think it is very important that we cooperate with refugees from this area and with other European countries when they step forward and receive people, receive with open arms those living there in situations that we all find very difficult to put ourselves in. I think so, so I'm about to answer a question. A senator, that in such matters, the best way to speak with caution, speak about people, and speak in a way that allows us to be guided by peace, is that we can remain in democratic communities and enjoy the well - being that all of us want to keep building up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u33	A respectable president. Speaking with caution may be a rather weak attitude toward the kind of speech that has been going on, so I'll say no more. I condemned this statement and said it with repugnant points in an alien politics in Iceland that I would have experienced. But, yes, you can ask the minister to speak with caution about a group of proverbs he faces. The minister also said that he was calling attention to the serious situation when refugees from Afghanistan, Syria, and other war - torn states were stopping the situation from the Ukraine. He will give us a new foreign bill that will solve these urgent matters. It's now at the top of the line. Minister to take care of the shelters of the inmates. The sensitive category has just been transferred to the highest level. Minister. Will he be able to provide accommodations for refugees other than those from Ukraine in order to bring in the right refugees? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u34	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make it clear that there is not being a tap or anything when it comes to receiving people from Ukraine. We will not allow the affairs of other groups or the situation at the National Institute of Iceland to influence our welcoming people from Ukraine. There wouldn't be much humanity in it. As for the writing of the bill, it's the highest. Minister of Justice, as we speak. In fact, it has been presented there by a senator in his consultation with the government. I haven't seen the bill since it came out of consultation, and we haven't considered the part that turns to my department. But, of course, we will, and the bill will be expected to happen to a government as it is, and we'll talk about it when it gets further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u35	A respectable president. I come up here because of an answer or rather, I don't have any answers to written inquiries. This is one of the tools we have to call for information and conversation with the Minister on data. I see it's the biggest place in the world. Social Affairs Minister who owns e.g. After answering a question that I submitted to him in the middle of January According to Congress, he should have 15 days of activity. I have another inquiry as the highest. In December, a health minister was contacted. Of course, there may always be special circumstances and circumstances, but the time has come to be so much. I would like to help and assist the president of the Parliament to put pressure on a minister to offer answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u36	President. This is my favorite part of the President's conference board. I have a program that I always start when you're asking about it, and right now, there's a lot of unsatisfactory queries. On average, 58 queries have been answered during 25 active days, more than what is supposed to be. There are ministers like Ministers of the Interior, with 33 days of reply time, social and workforcer with 31 days of reply time and energy and climate minister 33 days, to draw the skunks out of these numbers. The others are doing a little better, but this is what she is now. As usual, we are getting answers later than we expect our work here sometimes is that we need information fast to win Congress cases, committees. Especially in the committees, it compares to seven days, so once again, do better here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u37	A respectable president. We have come up here at the council several times in this year to draw attention to how few Ministers are coming to represent answers during an unpublished period of inquiry. That happened last night, as it was estimated that there was not even supposed to be a minimum law on how many Ministers are before answers, even though this has been added, to a minimum. We reached three with this tip. Then I'd like to mention that for the time we've complained about this, we've been told that there are other ways to get answers from counsellors and from the government, including answers to written inquiries. If we don't get the answers to the written inquiries we make, it's a serious matter. That's why I'm pointing to the highest. The President to direct the government to show that she has a legal obligation to represent responses to the council and that the council can use the instruments of law to sustain the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u38	A respectable president. I think this is exactly the context of the parts that really matters, that we're starting a new election in such a way that Iceland's record has fallen in a number of Ministers and consultants. Still, this seems inadequate for ministers to repay the council. Ministers are not here. They are not answering written requests. Nevertheless, the 2 billion ministerial servants are not bringing better results from this government. I am concerned about the rhythm of a new election season as well as the attitude toward the council. We present these inquiries to provide important information for the Council Building. I urge the President to push the government officials and remind them that my inquiry, the oldest of the few, is from the beginning of the month of December.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u39	Mr. President. Regarding the response of a minister to written inquiries, it may be appropriate to recall that in 2011, there was a delay in answering from ten days to 15. Last year, an attempt was made to extend it, from 15 days up to 25. Then it came about that the board and the monitoring committees all agreed to reverse that trend and say, "No, we'll stick to 15 days." The committee added that it would be appropriate to call for more thorough support if the secretary is unable to answer a request within a deadline. Now it's just not. This has not been followed, neither by the council nor by the council, it seems to me, because the ministers seldom submit a written request to be returned after a deadline will follow no logical support. This must be followed by the Senate's office, as it were a year ago by the court's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u40	A respectable president. I just want to agree, I'm one of those waiting to get an answer to a written query. I've often wondered, but after the problems have increased so much and the names change, I'm just asking if there were written inquiries at the wrong place, they don't know where to go. Even the Ministers themselves do not know about their ministry. This has become a bit of a roundabout, and I really hope that the government begins to clean up with her and she could start by shortening the name of counsel and minister, taking a few dashes away, and starting to respond to inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u41	A respectable president. I think this discussion is a sign that the Directorates and Ministers do not follow Congress on queries and do not respect 57. g. The Congress code. In the short time I've been here as a new senator, I've been aware that the House of Congress can simply disrespect Congress and disrespect the General Assembly. We'll see this in the Civil Rights case, where the Council will not be given reviews from the Foreign Institute as per law, and then again now. I believe it would be worth revising the Parliamentary law with the aim that the level of Congress could be at least a minister of some kind of rebuke or acquiesc to the premeditation. It is hoped that the body of Congress that the government will support will move or help in order to have some discipline over the European Commission. So I think it's very important to study the Congress Act with this objective, and I challenge the Senate to also protect the respect of the Generals. I think it's important in itself, just for us as an institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u42	A respectable president. We're talking about answering queries. Of course, it is also a very bad habit with the stewards of this government and doubtless many others ahead of it not to answer in unsubstantiated inquiries, as we have seen here earlier today. The only tool that the senators really have to deal with is to want to do so, but it's on them. Then I wondered what tools we have, in fact, to get a minister to answer the questions they are addressed to, because speaking of respect for the General then it must now be a minimum respect at least to try to answer the questions that people are directed instead of going through a wide range of areas of life and not answering. But okay. Enough about that. I also wanted to come up here and use my trip to ask the highest. Mr President, what's the story of a legal entity designed to work for the Parliament's Constitution and how they worked together with the General and Education Committee's request to be handed out to the citizens' rights from the Foreign Institute. I don't know any better than this legal opinion should have been made and I wonder what has caused the delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u43	The president wants to say that when he applied yesterday, it was said that this opinion was referred to as a final work done by the lawyers of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u44	President. I'd like to agree with the members of the council here who have spoken and therefore strongly directed it to the highest level. President to use his authority to stand with the council. The legislature is in a specific battle with the Commission, and it will be at the highest level. Mr President has come to realize that he's a member of the legislature, not the executive authority. I trust the president very well to step forward and, as I say, exercise his authority. Here, without a guilty plea to a minister who did not answer questions here in unsubstantiated inquiries, the minister was in some balance, when the president responded very well and directed the council and used certain discipline. All right. I wish that he will administer similar discipline when he applies our counsel to the executives, i.e. Government. So I strongly point to the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u45	President. Iceland is a republic with a concierge, which is a key. That is why the council is asking the proposed question: How are the laws and funding handled? Therefore, ministers should answer when asking them. As they're being done here now, ministers will be arriving from the council. The Ministers are actually looking forward to coming to the council and telling what a professional administrative agency, the European Commission, is doing, in the implementation of laws and legal documents approved here at the council. But this is somehow contrary, there are ministers who manipulate everything back and forth, and if they report that something is being mistaken in a professional administration, it is the decision they're complaining about. That's why we're not getting any answers from it. Ministers need to tell about their own mess. That's the problem we're dealing with here. That's why we don't get answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u46	A respectable president. A minister orders an office not to obey the law, not to carry out his duty to the council. V.E.G. In the media, a minister proudly declares that it is for his orders that an institution does not follow his duty to the council. V.E.G. Ministers don't come to an unprepared question period at the council. V.E.G. Ministers do not respond to the written inquirys of members of the Parliament to the minister. Now that I'm new to this council, I came here for the first time in the fall, and I'm not alone. There's a lot of new people here at the council. I wondered if there might be one reason why the government seems to be holding little from the greater part of the council. So I just want to say something. paritaprevir This is Eyjólfur, Ármannsson of a year ago. I challenge members of the greater part and the highest. The chairman of the council is defending the respect of the council. It's the council that tells the government what to do, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u47	Mr. President. When the written answers to the council's queries arise, you may wonder if the answers or questions are unpleasant. I think so, for example. that as for the inquiry made by Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir and started with the discussion, it is a matter of access to psychological services independent of the economy, the complex promise of the government to substantiate the psychological services. Let's just look at the numbers there. On December 8, the inquiry was submitted so that the 15 active days ran out on December 30. A letter came from the Ministry of February 7, where the request was made. This letter did not even fulfill the letter of the Law to make a written account for reasons taken or when to expect an answer. It didn't come out, and it's like a whisk. paritaprevir According to the Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson, a crime on the part of the Ministry. As well as the clear will of all administrations and monitoring committees, from a recent year onward, this issue is being made clear. Will this pleasure be done, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u48	A respectable president. When I decided to request a discussion on the interaction of inflation and interest, it was because we are living at this time a lot of instability and inflation in Icelandic society, an instability that seems to be pouring on us at regular intervals, and the Icelandic public will have to deal with us in the form of poverty, change in growth, inflation, and inflation. The public does not control these forces, which most control the changes, but they eventually suffer most damage because of the impact this has on the standard of living. Who is wondering, though, about the growth trade, the binding of banks, and the balance of daily life? I allow me to say that most people lack knowledge to grasp such terms. However, each of these factors has much to do with the survival of the common people. Buying homes is a big decision for most people, making it necessary for them to set goals and plan for decades for loans. Sadly, though, most of these programs do not pass because of external factors that people cannot handle. Finally, the cost of property has always been high. I have, for example. Over the years, I bought my first apartment at 20 years of age. I do not wish my children to have to go through the same things that my generation has had to. I can't see, however, that there are any changes in water. As far as I can see, Icelandic coins that need both belts and bracelets are the reason for the instability we live in. At the same time, economics are undisputed to both the government and the Federal Bank during the past two years have paid off to the historic rise in apartment prices. For that reason, I'd like to ask the highest. The financial and economic secretary of four questions as follows: 1st Was an analysis of the impact of reductions in driving growth and binding, and changes in fluctuation support might have on the demand for housing? If not, why not? 2. Has the Department of Economics talked to Iceland's National Focal Bank about what measures it can take to help out from the direction of growth in which to combat inflation? 3. After a collapse, the direct growth rate was irreversibly followed by the disastrous consequences of national short term and short-term and long-term domestic commitments. Today 400 billion additional bonds of the households are clearly identified as a threat. What lesson will the government learn from this, and how will it prevent it from repeating the mistakes in the collapse? 4. Growth in driving growth increases growth in wax metabolism. How will financial and economic ministers promote their limitations and their negative consequences? The instruments used to set the Icelandic economy have always two sides. Much, e.g. will increase growth in wax trade, which can lead to a successful success that again adversely affects the export branches? Should the late bank be acquitted and holy to intervene in the course of success when there is no end of talking about the benefits of wearing a liquid crown? If a dollar grows stronger, should not the public enjoy it? Should all our actions be based on export branches? A respectable president. I'm worried that a future bargain will be difficult for the position that has come up. When the harbor bank increases, rather than allowing the crown to grow stronger, it is good for exports than for the benefit of the people. Looks like we're back in the same circle, where our young people have all the money they need to buy homes but now they have to deal with what we less than one generation had to deal with, i.e. cross-react growth and inflation that no one knows where the end will end. A respectable president. It's as if we've learned nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion that I believe is timely and important. Regarding the first question, the response of money banks and government funds in Western lands to the spread of the pandemic has been in most places. In the beginning, the deepest economic breakdown in a century was the shock that seemed to be bigger and more widespread than the financial crisis. To cope with this, depositors reduced growth and in some other way reduced maintenance, such as reduction of fluctuation balance. At the same time, government funds increased their expenses and reduced tax returns. This was done to support the economic situation of households and enterprises in a financial crisis and in situations of considerable uncertainty. The fact is, we took effective measures, including to broad vaccinations and finally learn to live with the virus. Government and corporate support measures led to a faster economic improvement than expected. With rapid economic benefits, domestic demand has increased largely, especially in housing. Price increases in housing markets are thus resulting in a faster recovery of the economy than expected. This is not limited to this country. The increase in housing prices is not a specialist trend. There were a number of analyses during this period, both in the Ministry, in the Federal Bank and by other diagnostic agents. None of them expected that the domestic demand would be as strong as it really is. In this context, e.g. Note that since May 2020, when the arrangements were taken, according to President's permission, are likely to be further slowed down by the high prices of an apartment building. With regard to the second question, Iceland's Secret Bank has included... The goal of promoting constant and low inflation, and he has his independence for a special reason. To achieve these goals, the bank has not only the expertise but also the tools needed, and it uses them to achieve it as effectively as possible. It is true that one of the biggest weapons of the bank in combating inflation is an increase in steering growth. Iceland's secret bank is not alone in having it primarily done so, since operating growth is the main instrument in Western countries to influence inflation. It is not a coincidence. It is generally viewed as the best instrument for control of inflation. The bank has so many other tools to achieve its goals, especially financial stability. For the control of high prices, the bank has, e.g. set limits on the mortgage ratios and the minimum payment rate. However, the budget is, as noted earlier, an independent agency and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs are not involved in the extent to which it achieves its objectives. However, we stress that the SERVANT has the tools he feels he needs to achieve its goals, and we focus on promoting public financial goals in support of the inflation target and thus reduces the need for significant increases in driving growth. The third question. In October 2008, however, the growth rate was increasing, but we cannot compare it with what is going on today. First, in the financial crisis, steering growth went to the highest of 18%. During the past few months, the primary fruits of the Federal Bank have increased from 0.75 percent to 2.75%. A significant increase in 2.75% interest level or 18% is observed. In fact, it's exactly 15.25 percentage points. Second, there are ample reasons for growth. The aim followed by the financial crisis was primarily to defend the crown's gangs, but there is no danger of panic now as people were concerned at that time. In addition, the debt of the economy is low in historical context today, and the financial situation of the households is strong. Right away. A senator may talk about the cross-reacting of growth and inflation. Perhaps I would like to add to the historic interaction of inflation and the rise in the sum of money, which may be what we need to worry about. I'm not yet to the fourth question, maybe come in on it below. Of course, growing business is something that we are not trying to attract. Some normal investment in the crown's gang is not to worry about much, but we need to be alert if there is too much growth in growth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u50	Mr. President. There are signs that homes need to be concerned. Airs are increasing, inflation is increasing, and the war in Ukraine certainly does not improve the outlook. We are leaving the epidemic, but it is the government's job to make sure that the recovery of the economy is not affected by the most vulnerable groups in society. And sad to say, there is evidence that certain groups are worse off this epidemic than others. The inflation and growth development we've seen is the worst in the groups that have fallen on their feet. Of course, it is clear that serious economic conditions, especially housing markets as well as worsening health by the pandemic, will have a widespread impact. That's what the Supreme One said. Secretary of finance earlier that we'd learned to live with the virus, but we'll never learn to live long term, at least, to live with a lack of money. The government is in its own way responsible for this situation. When the growth decrease began two years ago, the highest was spoken. You see, the secretary of finance just about a new reality, thus giving young people very unrealistic expectations. Many owed themselves according to the highest term. Secretary of finance and perhaps now facing a difficult situation. Now the government has to respond. She's got the tools. She can, for example. As the Conspiracy has discussed, they are able to support the proposals of the United States and other government groups for counterweighting operations in the home. I don't believe that these suggestions have support for the general council, at least. in those and in groups of those that are unique in their equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u51	A respectable president. During the last few weeks and months, we have seen astronomy increases in housing prices that have a significant impact on the index value of consumer prices. By the end of January, housing was increased by 1.7% in just one month. The APR has reached a rate of more than 20%. The need for a response is urgent. War has come in Europe, and it has a tremendous impact on inflation here and abroad. The cost of consumer goods and services spent on the land's home has been illustrated by inflation within the same month before. This is measured by the index of consumer prices, where each company varies according to the share of the household expenses. The most important factor is the housing team, which measures the cost of living in its own home, about one third of the index, and thus the greatest impact on land growth. The housing team calculates the price of housing, rent prices, maintenance, electricity, and other things into the equation. The cost of living is among them. What we need to consider is that the host's housing is not as measured in the uniform index as that. The difference is that housing is paid along with other costs that cover housing in the consistent index, which is used in the Icelandic language as well as the calculated rent. A respectable president. When disaster prospects have deteriorated significantly, the decisions made here in this hall have a tremendous impact on the economy, the nature of the situation, and it is important that we set the tone. However, the reaction is not to begin or end here. Rather, we need more of us to control the situation. We need to start thinking things differently and to think differently about the account. And now that we've already made progress, we have suggested solutions to how we can provide a more reasonable picture of the index and thus the inflation. And why not go along with us on the road ahead and start thinking in solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u52	A respectable president. Last year, the increasing numbers of the Federal Bank were only a small part of consumers. The wisdom of banks on unconvinced housing loans is usually about one third higher than that of the Federal Bank, but when the Marine Bank went down to 0.75% they were more than four times higher. Thus, only a small amount of consumers gained this reduction. These reductions still owe consumers to banks, who make full use of the growth of steering growth. Today, as a result of a pandemic, there is a global war that will have its own effect. Inflation is not due to an event at home but to a small extent. Because there is inflation all over the world, it must be handled on that basis. The way that has always been done to make this work is to increase the basic growth of the World Bank, and so is today. But if inflation is largely due to outside influence, how should a higher law be applied in homes and businesses? The only thing higher growth is to increase the difficulties of homes and companies, which are often sufficient for, including. Because of a pandemic and its consequences. The situation is difficult around the world for Covid, and the world's production and transport lines, the so - called high chain of value, have increased the cost of transport to the country as well as the price of various products. A higher curse in Icelandic homes will have no effect on this trend. On the contrary, even now there should be no more damage to the Covid epidemic than there have been in many countries where income losses have been lost and there has been a poor increase in the number of penalties due to growth increases that are questionable to bear the desired results. The largest budget for most households is the cost of housing and the second, the cost of food. If both sides rise because of external inflation, who will help? For some families, monthly housing costs - whether credit or rent - are up to 60% of the budget. This is often the case with low - priced families. [[The president calls.]] Each percentage of them to increase the cost of housing can be separated from unpredicted persons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u53	A respectable president. The advocate of this discussion points to the collapse, wondering what lesson the present government intends to learn from that time in the light of the direction of changing growth. In this context, it is important to keep in mind that the reduction in driving growth occurred just as part of the government's economic activities after Covid and now that they were pre-pandemic, like the highest level. The financial and economic ministers came in in in their history. A low-growing environment affected the housing market, but in the latter part of 2021, bets were reduced, which may be associated with the decision to reduce the commitment rate by the end of June, as well as increasing property prices and lack of supply are likely to play. All of us need tools to cope with increased inflation and its consequences. An increase in driving growth is the main tool of the Bank for achieving the inflation target. It is likely that this year the growth process will continue. We know that there are groups in the community that are sensitive to these increases, and the interests of the households must be the priority/priority. Clearly, the growing proportion of mortgages on variable interest is dangerous and something we need to react to. Mr. President. During the coming years, there will be a need for targeted government measures and policies to create a growing environment and a more diverse housing market. Public housing markets need to continue to be strengthened, with the aim of controlling prices and meeting demand. The public was built in 30% of all new facilities during the last terms, and this development has to continue so that we can outgrow the epidemic, as government policy dictates.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u54	President. I think it is a very good and necessary point in this discussion to examine the subject on the one side from the big picture and from each individual. I'm gonna start with the big picture on this. The big picture behind all of this, in my opinion, that we need to draw attention to and push a little bit of it, is our pension system. Why do I say that? Because our pension system is based on the website of Pension accounts.is 6,000 billion dollars. Size. What does that mean, especially in view of the cost of a crop of 6,000 billion dollars? 3.5%? This means 200 billion a year that needs to grow in order to live under the pension system. This is interesting because real value increases GDP only about 100 billion a year. What, then, will happen to the missing 100 billion? They appear in in inflation, inflation, no more complicated than that. This is the core of what we experience every day in the loans, etc., the basis of inflation. The inflation is there because we set aside some of our wages in order to later receive them as provision in later years. But the value of this incarceration needs to be maintained so that we can have it for her when we get older, and it will cost us in the end. The other part of the pension system is a home that everyone needs in debt before they go into pension. That's what I'm going to mention in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u55	A respectable president. In many ways, the problem is prepared and anticipated. Although there is a global problem, many experts have also identified the mistakes made in the economy. It is now five months ago that the government groups fought their campaigns with the message that this has produced a certain low-growing environment, while the fact that the public's burden has greatly increased in the last few weeks and months and will rise in the coming days. Since then, this has been said to protect the historical setting of growth. It just doesn't matter. There is no consolation for all the shopkeepers whose loans have increased by tens of thousands. Rather, it does not matter when compared with the years when shopping, for it is all part of a home bridge. The competition between Iceland and Icelandic employment depends on our position and our competition for foreign countries, not in this country. What's the interest difference in foreign countries? It does not facilitate Icelandic companies around the environment. So the interest cost of the state's debt is going to rise and is already the fifth largest currency. At the same time, we are left with a number of cost - including the cost of living. because of a number of schemes, none of them are trusting to prioritize the financial resources of the state. So the theme we see here is rightly called irresponsibility and incoherentness. The government has increased the trinity and expenses to allow the minister's office to succeed, but then it does not have the worth of a person to complete various basic capital matters, such as the subsidies of psychological services. The activities of the industry tell the government that it is responsible for the total insurrection of state funds and its debt for the next government and the government will not respond to the message of the bank manager who made a clear statement at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning that it has to destroy the balance, that the state must spend less money and pull back. There will be either tax increases or government spending reduction. President. I call for clear answers from governments on the next steps and expect them to come back to life, for the situation is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u56	A respectable president. Now I'm going to allow myself to be a voice of optimism, but now there are a very different conditions, but those that the perfunctory points to after a crash. First, the economic impact of the pandemic was not as long as many feared, and second, the government's response to the epidemic was to make the economic improvement more than expected. A major factor is that after a collapse, unemployment was high, but there is now a shortage of labor. At that time, the environment has made significant changes since collapse to the very point that governments have learned from the failures of collapse. These changes are both beneficial for consumers as well as financial institutions, and consumers are now more protected and have increased freedom to make independent decisions about their financial and financial businesses. As the housing market continues to move the inflation due to the lack of the forward gate, the harbor bank has few advantages other than the growth of steering growth, and there is good reason for continuing to use other national legal instruments. The action taken here at the council must not be pressured on the demand gate, as some proposals at the council will do. In this context, it can be emphasized that the financial debt of the economy is low in historical context, and despite the increase in home debt, the financial situation is strong. What will, in turn, have the most impact on the development of inflation is a future cold discussion. The job market will play a big part. Remuneration in the pandemic has increased substantially, which does not happen elsewhere in this situation. The debate must reflect the circumstances in the economy. Finally, there is much to work together to maintain financial stability, and to that end, all of us need to calm in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u57	Mr. President. The progress of money has changed greatly for the better since the collapse of the bank, and for that, we can primarily thank important legal adjustments in the long government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. At last, Iceland's independent bank, the money policy committee, and the political orders of the bank manager stopped. Unfortunately, the European Union contract was not completed because by involvement we would have received economic stability for the future and a currency produced by 500 million people. Instead, we need to live with the Icelandic crown, the currency that plays the Icelandic public weep at regular intervals. The last peaks in the Federal Republic of Nations were having a negative reaction to the incomeiest and even those who already spend the vast majority of their provisions for housing expenses, homes that are in position not to be allowed to handle any unexpected expenses. The tenet market situation is difficult and disloyal, especially now when the inflation is rising and the rent that is linked to an index is automatically rising. The number of prices that will still grow as a result of the European war and increases in growth will result in the cost of housing for people with low incomes and average income being even higher than the limits of the provisional element. The result was that the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir successfully used the house - reforming system and the child - reforming system during difficult times. Now we should use that experience and use powerful growth reforms, rentals, and child - making tools to ease people's concentration. It must only be adjusted by property and pay standards and limits of decline. Systems exist and you can react immediately. All that is missing is a political desire to be on the side of people whose condition makes it impossible for them to end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Einarsson for this discussion today. Increased inflation affects every home in the country. That is why the Councilman has grown. This is to deal with the present situation, especially in a real estate market. The past few years have been unusual, including Because of the global epidemic of crown virus. But I have said before that it is probably not wise for the Federal Bank to increase the pace of money. Now, at the end of the epidemic, the job life is about to begin, and we have a realistic chance for the inflation to work quickly naturally. But more is needed. Many factors have an impact, and this includes. The real estate situation. It is difficult, real estate prices have gone up tremendously fast, and there is a great shortage of housing. The oer has not been maintained in demand. It is a fact that it cannot be overlooked that there is a price to pay for the inflation in Iceland as well as an increase in raw prices. Simply put, there is a shortage of apartments, including the result. Because of city convergence, which has led to high housing prices. It is being built expensively in animal areas. That's not what we need. We need to build faster, and we need to build practical ones. We Icelanders are growing fast, especially in the capital area. The responsibility of your community for the rise in real estate prices is high, especially in Reykjavík. Reykjavíkurburg is the largest rural society in Iceland, so what is being done is of utmost importance. The persistent lack of property and new structures in Reykjavík City has contributed to this dramatic rise and continued inflation. A respectable president. We have to do this together if we're gonna keep the water. We need to do our job. We need to ensure the growth and efficiency of living quarters for the future. There, the city of Reykjavík, the largest rural society in the capital area, has provided rich people with the leadership of their peers for far too long. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u59	What have you done in Hafnarfjörður?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u60	We've been assigned weights...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u62	The president encourages you. Senators to not stop...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u64	The president encourages you. Councilmen to give speakers a sound to finish their speech, pointing out that it is not permitted to keep up discussions from their seats here in the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u65	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister Bjarni Ben. Hv. Senators and their beloved locals who are paying attention. I want to know from the very beginning that with respect to Ukraine, I am wearing their colored flag, blue, and yellow. I decided to cheat on color and wear jeans, even though it's forbidden here at the council, just today. Except, of course. There's a lot of weird shit in the cow's head. In memory, it was in the 1980's that both salary and other prices were decided to be assured, which was later found to be detracted so that the pay was not guaranteed. So as employees, we need to live by the rise of inflation, and somehow we need to take care of it. Now I've been thinking about it. An apartment owner who owns several apartments and rents them out has an inflatable income. And on top of everything else, he pays much less taxes. He's paying 22% for capital tax while the rest of us have to pay 30 to 4.0% tax. It's unfair. The best fruit today. It is said that there is little supply in the area of Reykjavík, mainly. I have the theory that the reason is even. Because capital owners buy apartments in grass and discipline because there is no better harvest today. When you deposit money into the bank, you'll get a zero point of interest there, and stock will be up and down. But apartment prices keep rising. So those who have money buy and make money because they can sell it again as soon as they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u66	A respectable president. In order to complete life, we need a roof over our heads and our provisional income and for this we have installed a pension fund that does not assume that the pension can pay expenses. It's simple. If the pension is to be sufficient for just food and the like, people have to have an empty apartment. That pension is simply not intended for housing. In its overall context, governments need to be able to explain how to obtain housing at the minimum possible rate, as is the case with government extrapolation in that the minimum wage is in the minus one month apart. Then there is no way to own an apartment, much less just all other rural areas, but in the years and decades that are predicted to take place in Reykjavík, it is not possible to own an apartment. We're dealing with it now, we've just got the crowds updated. It's higher than expected. This requires even more apartments than was expected. The previous plans included the only rural society that built enough to fill that need according to the proportion of the city. The only country club. The others are all betraying themselves in that demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u67	A respectable president. Here are fine discussions, and many views have been expressed, which I agree in many ways and others do not. But the situation is with us in view of our neighbors in Europe, that they do not have to run their homes like a hedge fund. They will not be forced to predict indefinitely how growth change will affect their home Bible books. They do not have to reimburse their loans every few years and are not at risk of losing tens of thousands of dollars a month because of the sudden decisions made by the bank. Normal people do not need to have a university test in economics in order to minimize the damage to a swinging currency. Sentences here today that the lack of property in Reykjavík is the main cause of the increase in real estate prices is not going to work. More than the neighboring community in the capital area has been represented by land prices throughout the country and the city of Reykjavík. In contrast, less growth and availability have increased the demand for real estate markets far beyond what has been in recent years. So the government might look closer before it blames others for this increase in domestic commitments. It is of great concern that she has attacked these operations without considering their potential effects. When I spoke of the interaction between inflation and growth, I remember the most. The secretary of finance is involved in the cross-cutting of pay and prices in a historical context. The relationship was unguarded, and the people in pay were not protected. When you are about to raise interest on a debt-seated company, I fear that it will just go straight into the prices and cause you to continue to grow. But that my plans for economic management are also to focus on the interests of the households and maybe primarily. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u68	A respectable president. This has been a fine conversation, but perhaps it has been slightly polarized over the real economic issues and what benefits are made from the situation as it is facing us today. We've been discussing the inflation here today. I haven't heard many ideas to address the inflation, but I've heard a lot of ideas about new expenses from a government fund. There have been demands to increase the expenditures of the other and these classes, but this alone is not likely to help us deal with the problems we are dealing with here, which are actually inflation and its impact on the interests of the people of the land because of the growth increases that have followed. In fact, interest rates have been discussed, and people say that they do not help even if there is little interest in historical growth. I'm going to argue, however, that it was important to consider the proportion of domestic provisions in the mortgage payments. There is a low share, there is not much higher than there are other countries in the North. The domestic debt in Iceland, however, is much lower than in the other North countries, if we use it as a percentage of land production. So the position of the household is much stronger than the debate today. Unfortunately, there is far too little that we can get out of this discussion, taking steps to deal with the underlying problem. I've been saying, "We have to use our financial resources wisely in this situation,'and we shouldn't look the other way, when the Sustainer says we're gone and we're in a new season. I wonder what the chairman of the United States means when he makes the decision that it was a bad decision for people to repay their loans or to go into real estate. [[The president calls.]] I just don't know what people are going to do. People have benefited from low interest levels. [[The president calls.]] I just want to say that, fortunately, many people have made it into the market, and we have never seen a similar number of our first apartment buyers, which is a very good case. But the project will continue, and we will eventually empty out this discussion. It's not going to be done here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u69	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a law on the other hand on the description of the stocks offered in a general message or taken up business on a structured market, No. 14/2020, on the other hand, the information code of the publishers'stocks and fictitious regulations, No. 20/2021. The bill suggests the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. The European Treaty, 2021/337, will be given legal value in this country. The rules include a change in Regulation 2017/1129 which deals with the information of the stock market. A description is a synonym for documents or documents to be published because of the general stock oer or the purchase form for business on a structured market. Protocol 221/337 is part of the EU's provision to ensure payment and access to funding in support of improvements after the economic blow caused by a pandemic crown virus. This Regulation requires temporary changes in the system of descriptions in order to enable citizens and partners in the financial market to reduce costs and cut down the funding for the reimbursement process following the pandemic. Two main changes are in the Regulation. On the one hand, the maximum percentage of loan institutions from the obligation to publish a description is increased from 75 million euro to 150 million euro over a period of 12 months in the event of tenders or non-compliant stock markets being taken up continuously and repeatedly. However, the Regulation calls for a new, temporary and shorter form of description, called the EU Re-improvement Directive for filling with the earlier descriptions. Sources for using EU reform directives and maximum inspiratory capacity fail on 31 December 2022. Then the bill decides to make changes in the law on the information rights of the publishers of stocks and fictitiousities, No. 20/2021, which is aimed at ensuring that the use of terms and references between laws fit the financial market, No. 115/2021. A respectable president. This bill has only a short period of time, and under certain circumstances, the requirements for the information of stocks are set out. The changes are intended to provide loan opportunities to support companies who need refinance after the economic crisis due to the pandemic. So this is an indiscriminate legalization. It is desirable that the law should take effect as soon as possible, since the time of the Regulation is very short and has already taken effect in the European Union. Rich interests may include being seated at the same level as other members of the internal market in terms of access to funding during the pandemic. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u70	Madam President. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal to consecrate Iceland's Free Trade Convention, the Kingdom of Norway and the Futurity Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. By the proposal, the Allied Council is looking for approval of a free trade deal between Iceland, Norway, the Kingdom of Kingdom of Norway, and the Fustrich Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland signed on July 8, 2021. As indicated by the proposal of this paper, Britain's exiting from the EU and thus the EEA community service had a turning point in the relations between Iceland and Britain. The EU Treaty, which is the largest and most detailed holiday contract in Iceland, has been built in the recent quarter of the year. It ensures not only tax freedom but also unregulated business with most goods and services. As soon as Britain announced her resignation from the EU and the EEA, it was clear that a new setting would be guaranteed for the future relationship between Iceland and Britain. Several contracts were made against Britain to deal with the exits as well as with the rest of the EEA/EFTA countries, Norway and Liechtenstein, making a detailed free trade agreement for the future. The report shows that the Free Trade Convention in Britain is more elaborate and more detailed than the rest of Iceland's vacation contracts, with the exception of the EEA Convention. It reflects the importance of Britain as a neighboring country and one of Iceland's major commerce. Despite the scope of the contract, the key differences between him and the EEA agreements that were previously valid for a business relationship between the Member States. The EEA Convention has a unique status, including to the point that it established a common economy based on standard standards and regulations for goods, the free movement of remuneration, the free service and the Enforcement rights, as well as voluntary capital movements. Free trade agreements are not generally about citizens' rights to live and work in countries where these treaties exist or insure the right to education in other countries. Thus, the Free Trade Convention on Britain does not contain its regulations. When it comes to marketing of goods, the EEA contract and free trade agreements are comparable in that they do not include a toll alliance. In both the EEA treaties and the United Kingdom non-employment agreements, full trade freedoms for industrial products are laid down, but tollies are negotiated specifically for marine and agricultural products. The contract provides the same toll benefits for marine and agricultural products as the EEA Convention as the previous linked agreements. This guarantees that the exporters of Icelandic seafood products and agricultural products will receive at least The same natural treatment for animal health policies for the import to Britain as for other competitive countries in the EEA. In terms of the services trade and investments, the difference between the EEA agreements and the Free Trade Convention with Britain is mainly in place with the EEA Convention on the common market for services trade and free flow of capital resources, including investments, where discrimination between domestic and other Member States is generally forbidden. Free trade agreements, including the free trade agreement with Britain, confirm that current service trade legislation with third countries should apply to the treaties and legislation. For the monitoring of food health and monitoring for technical legislation, the EEA Convention requires that the manufacture countries be monitored but that this is not being done on the border. Therefore, a main policy may be unsupervised between internal countries. Because of the nature of the internal market of the EEA, such commitments cannot be established in a contract with the United Kingdom without all EU Member States agree to make the same kind of agreement. The Commission highlights the importance of the long - term relationship between Iceland and Britain. in politics, culture, education, and commerce As for the latter, Britain, as mentioned earlier, has been among the most important markets for Icelandic exports as well as for Britain's second - largest number of tourists in the country, including major service trade merchants. According to one report, the export of goods to Britain included nearly 69 billion dollars. In 2020, of these, the export value of marine products was 48 billion. or equivalent to 26% of the total transport value of Icelandic sea products that year. At the same time, Britain's import took up about 50 billion dollars. The export of a service to Britain was about 48.5 billion. in 2020 and took a substantial dip for the pandemic of Covid-19. Britain, however, is the second largest single import in Iceland and owns sea transport, air service, and tourism of the largest share. The Commission highlights the rich business interests involved and believes that by the free trade agreements involved in the Management Board, Iceland and Britain have a strong framework for business relations. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir was away from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Congress. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. This is in accordance with the opinion of Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee. Under the opinion of what? Foreign Committee publications produced by Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Logi Einarsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. This is an enormously important contract, an Icelandic vacation agreement, Norway, and Liechtenstein with Britain. Now that the EEA deal was in our hands, it was kind of made to us by the EFTAs of our time. Today, the EEA is mainly driven by Norway, I think about 90%, and in the UK it is called the Norwegian system, or Norwegian. I have no doubt that the Norwegians were the driving force in this, that this was primarily a negotiation between Norway and Britain, at least Britain always sees it as the main source of Norway. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Did Iceland bring any special requirements into this contract and be taken into account? What were these special requirements and were taken into account? Is this agreement merely an agreement on the grounds of the Norwegians? What was Iceland's involvement in negotiations and the deal itself? As I said earlier about this system today, the original agreement was made, and the cost was brought, by countries such as Switzerland, Austria, Finland, and Sweden, I know that the Swiss were very strong at the negotiations, but I did not participate in the job. But what was Iceland's share in this record that's here for validation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u72	Madam President. This is where the person who speaks has a little trouble because he had confidence in the Committee on a State Department memo about negotiations, how to deal with them. But all our interests were cared for and men were fully involved. It is interesting to point to the EEA Convention, then to Norway and the European Union that the Norwegian people have been extremely careful about the EEA deal on their part and if I remember correctly they've had 70 employees in Brussels to deal with the deal. During the last term, we Icelanders and I made the decision to put extra funding through the budget, and the council made a decision here to increase the number of our representatives in Brussels so that each Ministry would have more on the notes. Not long ago, we may have had two agents out in Brussels, but now we've got seven, eight people, if I remember correctly, so that most of the agencies that protect Iceland's interests are involved. Of course, Norway is the big party in the EEA deal today, on that side, and with the British, we're going to follow in part by nature. But I can assure the senator that we were involved and cared for the interests of Icelanders through our commission and were fully involved in this work. But it's a little hard to remember exactly what you could say about this memo we got, you might have been better prepared if you had figured out what you'd be asking about in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. My question now is: At the National Assembly of Iceland, it is not right, and the people of the country to know what Iceland's infrastructure was in these negotiations, what part of Iceland was involved in these negotiations and what Iceland's priorities were, what was heard and what was not? Now this body of Congress proposal will be accepted, and I can't see that there is no confidentiality, that would harm national interest, if we were to know, the Icelandic public, what our significance was in this negotiation and what our worth is in this vacation agreement here. I can't see it. It's the most important deal Iceland's ever made, and it's just a matter of transparency and democracy. I can also state that there are eight employees hired to Brussels, but the question is, Is there a lot to do with them or not and whether they have a good definition in their jobs there to protect Iceland's interests, e.g. ... tothecommittee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u74	Madam President. Yes, it would likely be a matter of talking with the Ministry and discussing what can be said on the committee. I think this may also be about future interests and negotiations, maybe there's something wrong with them. We must always, as in this case, in order to be absolutely clear, to take special care of our special interests, and our people were in full contact with our Iceland's interests, which are enormous in this matter. As mentioned in this article, this is, if I recall correctly, the second - largest business nation in Iceland after the United States. Of course, this has skyrocketed, both the trade and then the service to the flight and the tourism. But just so I can assure you what. Senator: Our interest was taken care of by the members of the Ministry for us Icelanders in these talks. But then it's a question of whether we should film it, how we appreciate it on the basis of the overall interest. But this kind of deal - I think that when we're in this deal with the nations, whatever they are, there's no last deal. This is a constant process and will definitely continue and we will continue to try. But I think there's a relatively great deal of agreement in this country and the goals that were achieved, in specific things that might be related to our interests rather than to the interests of the North and the people of Liechtenstein. But it's hard to get a question like that when you can't quite remember what you can say and what you don't already have to talk about. ... you're going to have a little problem with this, but thank you for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u75	Madam President. Yes, in a sense, when things like Bgret happen, things like this need to come up with new agreements. The same text may have to be written, and much of it may be the same for all countries. But then there's the specifics for Iceland that mattered most to us and I heard it as an officer of the State Department of State, and it wasn't something specifically stamped out as confidential, that our team had worked hard to try to secure Iceland's interests. It is, of course, with such agreements that it had to work a little fast because people thought that it was not going to happen, so suddenly it was, and fortunately, temporary negotiations could be made to bridge the gap. The process is now completed to establish this specific agreement with Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Is everything the government wanted? No, I'm sure it's not. When a contract is made between two parties, you need to find a means of gold that both parties can accept. Can we make a better deal? No doubt. But at this time, I think it's all right - I'm gonna mix the words of defense and a deal together and say a good defence deal. What we can expect is, of course, that it needs to continue. There are many things that we may have been accustomed to as part of the EEA. Can be used there, e.g. mention, if I remember correctly, that in this contract, there are no lower fees for study, but in the United States students received, for example. reduced school fees in the past. As a matter of fact, I think, throughout the Europeans, they no longer get a lower degree, but only the citizens of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I'm sure there are some things you can fix. You can probably argue about whether in one area you could have gone further and shorter in other fields, etc. The important thing is that we can continue our business, we can continue our travel, we can continue selling goods and services there, and we just hope that it will encourage the Ministry to continue working on better contracts as time goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u76	Madam President. I hereby recommend the resolution of the United Nations council's disembarking proposal for children to read: ▪ The General concluded that children's dental work will be free of charge and that health - care ministers will be assigned to offer the bill no later than in May 2022. Madam President. This proposal was submitted to the last council by a member of the United States Parliament, Ágúst Álif the Ólafur of Ágústsson, but it was not possible to succeed and is now restored. The proposal suggests that the General Assembly will conclude that children's dental rights will be free of charge and that health ministers will be assigned to submit that bill no later than May 2022. Children's dental rights are well - known, and carriers feel that children are inaccessible according to their parents'economic situation and that children's dental rights, such as the dental work of children who were completely conditioned in 2018, are subject to law. The cost of dental treatment for a child may well exceed a million dollars, and the treatment will take on an average of three years. Parents have the cost, and it is obvious that less wealthy parents are reluctant and will not be able to help their children when it comes to dental treatment. Dental and biting disorders tend to occur in families, so families may be at high costs when more than one family member needs dental work. This situation, Madam President, is disturbing, and it is therefore important that the Council issue a petition that children no longer be discriminated against when it comes to drying teeth. Iceland's Medical Insurance and Iceland's Dental Association on Dentist Children went into effect on May 15, 2013, with the signing of the Guðbjartur World Ministry Hannesson Health. The agreement was made in stages where dentistry was intended for children 17 years of age and younger to be free of charge except for annual visits. In the beginning, the contract to children 15, 16, and 17 years of age, was added to the timetable until it reached all the children in this country when the induction was completed on January 1, 2018. According to the contract, Iceland's health insurance is now fully paying for the dentistry of children 17 years of age and younger, apart from 2,500 bucks. annual attendance fees. Yes, Madam President. You see, it matters who is in charge, and this happened in the time of Jóhanna the Sigurðardóttir. In 2021, the cost of placeling children's teeth, too, was estimated to be about 2.6 billion per year. About 30% of each year now uses dental surgeons. It may be estimated that the cost of children's inexpensive dental rights can be worth about 1.5 billion, much less than the cost of dentisting children. The aim of the agreement on dentistry is for children under 18 years of age to obtain necessary dental services regardless of their parents'economic situation. In view of such goals, these are also relevant for children's dental rights because the current range of differences between children according to their parents'economic situation, since children's dental rights may be very expensive and there may have been other million dollars of treatments. So it is repeated that AIDS - stricken parents in Iceland obviously do not have the same potential as those who have more money between their hands to ensure their children's needed dental care. In view of both the present and the then president of the Iceland's Tooth Rights Association, it is quite common for parents to not see how their children's teeth can be handled because of high costs. It is clear, then, that moneyless families cannot afford to send their children to dental work, much less if many children in the same family need dental work. In the case that a child is required to undergo dental treatment, it is in the majority of the most frequent cases associated with biting or agglutination that is inborn defects and therefore cannot be prevented. It may be noted that the official pays full attention to measures to correct the congenital defects in children in other parts of the body, not in teeth. It's strange, Madam President, that teeth are reserved for health care when it comes to dental work. Until 1992, there was a contract between dental rights specialists and the State's insurance agency for reimbursement. The contract included most of the committed patients with tooth dissociation and tooth failure, and was a significant part of the remuneration spending. However, at the beginning of 1992, laws that end all reimbursements for routine dental work were passed. Sadly, this was done there, meaning that those patients needing dental rights did not get any money back. Today, Iceland's health insurance is paying part of the cost due to necessary dental management in accordance with Article IV. and Section V of Regulation 451 of 2013 and it is mandatory that a dental rights specialist perform the service for fixed sponging therapy and has a level of 100,000 bucks. or 150,000, nothing changed for the 20 years, nothing. The amount of money is the same, and it has not even kept up with GDP. Had his strength been indexed and followed a normal standard, he would now be $340,000. minimum. Transporters feel that these levels are often effective and, in many cases, not at all. The requirement for such levels of health care is that treatment with fixed devices should be initiated before the age of 21 and that the individual has not been previously sustained for dental treatment. Iceland's health insurance has paid about 220 million in such strength to some 1,840 children. In the case of more serious cases, the health insurance in Iceland pays 95% of the costs resulting from the treatment of a dental rights specialist and applies to these cases in the case of cleft palate, congenital failure of at least 4 adult teeth or, in some cases, when surgical intervention is required to correct the bite. It is not a contract for such a service, but it is paid to the employee's will, and it says here that parents and other family members of children who have an accident or have such inborn defects to hold on to many years of health insurance for Iceland, although this support is so specific. Iceland's health insurance has paid 420 treatments every year for such serious cases in children more than 200 million. K. In a year, so it's not a lot of money, Madam President. Furthermore, two trips from dental treatment are supported each year. The person's need is to be strengthened by dental treatment, and support can be given for those living outside the main urban core outside the area of dental care. Here it is suggested that in addition to necessary dental treatment performed for medical reasons, other dental treatments that the dentist considers to improve the quality of life of the child will also be set free. However, it should be noted that not all potential dental rights for children are expected to be free of charge, such as those derived from a medical point of view as minor. According to that, transgressors stress that the government does not place too strict conditions for crediting, since often toothlins can just improve their sense of identity and thus, in some ways, their health, their mental well - being. Transporters therefore suggest that dentists and dentists, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, agree on valid conditions, on which cases should be free and which should not be considered. The bill's contract highlights that the Ministry of Health has consultation with dentists and dental rights specialists and should never be overemphasized and maligned here at the Congress Hall. Unfortunately, ministers, including the highest. Minister of health, take this to heart. Transporters stress the importance of freedom of exchange as soon as possible, with a normal goal being the next year. It is therefore suggested that the health - care minister submit a bill no later than May II, May 2022. The report on this synopsis will only discuss how this is in the North countries, and you will see, including the United States. In Norway and elsewhere, a special attention is given to the child of a number of families, where more than one child needs dental expenses and believes that these are exemplary and imitate to remember. When millions of dental expenses run toward them, it is of great importance that our common health insurance systems come to assist them there. As mentioned earlier, there is a United States council that represents this decree of interpretation. When this discussion is over, we ask for it. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u77	Madam President. I'd like to state my support for this synopsis proposal. Dental corrections for children are not just health issues in the simple definition of that word. This too is a vital mental health issue because, like a whale, it is important. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir pointed out that crooked teeth can have a terrible effect on children's self - image. It is not acceptable for children from smaller families to suffer the cost of dental treatment. I myself have five children who all went to dental work. Fortunately, when they had braces and could afford them, I had a good salary. But I can tell you that I don't think any of those treatments - they're over their age that they can be called children now, they've become young adults, they've had children themselves - cost up to a million, and then they've been 10 to 15 years. If I know the price of climate development correctly, I'm sure it's gone up since then. That the strength has been 100,000 bucks. All this time, it's a natural disgrace. A respectable president. I simply challenge the highest. The health minister, Willum Þór Þórsson, to accept this resolution and to send the members of the greater part to the welfare committee the message that there is a legal matter that must be adjusted so that this council-sense proposal can pass through the council quickly and well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u78	Madam President. The importance of this matter may not have to be widely understood by members of the United States Congress, the first traveling representative. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. It is remarkable that we are here in 2022 still discussing the community action that is to subsidize children's dental rights. This is done in the countries around us. This is part of balanceing the status of children and the status of families, as shown in the report, that smaller families do not have to say no to their children about needed dental treatment. That is, I must say, consider how it has been tolerated in our rich country for decades to pretend that dental treatment is not part of the necessary health care that society has to pay for and carry costs. In this hall it is often debated what it is to be equal, or some may want to have better explanations of the difference between socioleic ecographers and nonpolitical people. The difference is: We want our joint funds, the tax of our citizens, to be used to level the country and to contribute to the growth of every individual. This is part of what needs to be done when you have to straighten your teeth or attack larger dental or dental procedures. It's not complicated in itself, but it's been enormous. We have been discussing this for decades, and it is quite clear, as is stated in the proposal and the report, when co-editors were in the government, and the late Divine Hannesson was the welfare minister, who made a deal with dentists, and became a system, such as in other places where children's dentists need to be paid only to a very small degree. This must be as I hope that all members of the council, wherever they stand, and whether they support the government or not, would trust to handle this matter of justice, and would accomplish it no later than this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u79	Madam President. I hereby recommend a council party for a bill to legalize the government laws on public finances concerning the granting and contributions of Ministers. The bill is not large, two articles, and it is as follows: - Uh-huh. - At 42nd. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: Despite a warrant 1.mg. is forbidden by a minister to provide interimportant grants and contributions to the classes responsible for eight weeks before the advertised election day to the Council. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ Madam President. In the ensuing of democratic elections, it is necessary to ensure that there is an equality to the greatest public. There is the danger that seated ministers will exploit their privileged position to gain favor with both voters by access to the media and public funds. In 1st. 42rd. law on public financial matters is authorized by advisers to provide occasional grants and contributions to projects that are relevant to the classes of matters to which they are responsible. During the ensuing election by the General election, ministers have made themselves known to the making of special appointments, so much so that the public is howling, until the day of election to draw attention to themselves and to their contributions. Count it incorrigibly that public funds and practices are abused in this way. For this reason, the need to set limits on distribution restrictions is considered to be effective in the implementation of elections so that advisers are forbidden to provide such funds from public funds later than eight weeks before the election day. Is this to mean that there should be no doubt about the purpose of the budgets, that they should be equal to those who receive public funds from the minister's hand, and at last to limit the differing circumstances of the candidates to the General Assembly. Madam President. During the last election, ministers in the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter began riding through the districts with a marvelous promise to build helicopters, to provide funds for student parks, to open psychiatric centers, and so forth. All the things I've mentioned here are e.g. Such monuments and such projects remain undeniably that such funds have to be decided here, within the walls of the Generals, but not in the Minister's office at any time. This is not a minister's drawer money, hundreds of millions of dollars support, and even billions of expenses. It is not an option for ministers to ride in the provinces with empty promises because they do not have the legal authority, they do not have it. It's the General Assembly that has financial authority. With this, ministers resorted to deception, and they even became so grossly known and said that they were personally involved in some kind of money. It was very prominent in the last government, and unfortunately, it is beginning again at the beginning of this government's work that ministers set themselves up as if they are giving their own money. Of course not, Madam President, these are Iceland's taxpayers' funds. It is not democratic that a minister alone will make such a decision or even praise such an distribution that he has not been able to promise because the funds are here at the General Assembly. Madam President. We have to stop this wish from happening. Prior to the last election, changes in the election laws were made that the general members of the council here who may be running in enormous terms could not reimburse members of the Parliament in order to pay for such trips. It was taken for that. It seemed quite normal and was elected here in the chamber, but a greater part of it was careful not to allow such rules to apply for ministers. They continued to take advantage of their schemes to ride through the provinces to praise helicopters, parks, mental hospitals, and so forth, at the taxpayers'expense, as it was unacceptable for members of the council to do. It may be true that members of Parliament only pay their own pockets for such. But let us remember that the senators are working here for the common people and the common people at the demand that members of the council travel through the country and learn what the common people are doing, what needs to be done, what may be done, and how to listen to people's voices. It is not enough to pick up the phone, you need to meet people, you need to look into situations, and it is the duty of members of Congress to go to work hours and on their leisure time, but it is not an option for ministers to agree on the provinces with a promise they cannot deliver. It is incorrigibly to do this in the way that the election would show up here. To this end, I suggest that this bill be sent to the Economic and Business Committee, and I expect all members of the Parliament, both in greater and lesser parts, to see that this is a large democratic step that needs to fit in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u80	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006. Transporters with me are Áslldur Ásthildur Þórisdóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Sæland Happyand, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson, all members of Congress for the Gang of the people. In 1st. says the following, i.e. About fishing legislation: ▪ Adding to the law is a provision for provisional use, which is as follows: Despite other requirements of this law, if required by the size of a boat, all the Icelandic citizens who have the right to command and a motor control are allowed to fish on their own boat with four automatic hand rolls. The boat should be less than 10 meters in length. The boat must've recognized an instrument. Each boat has two men in a crew and has the maximum automatic number of rolls, four rolls on a boat. At the end of five years, the experience of these fishing should be considered to determine whether to impose additional limits that will only take place in the boat's fishing areas and on the number of hunting days. Fishing of these boats are not calculated to catch points and do not affect the total share of the resources to other fishing vessels. Two. it is decreed that the law should already come into effect. The bill was originally submitted by the Guðjón - given son of Arnar Kristjánsson, former president of the Freeman Party, at 132, 133., 135., and 136. Now that's a little changed. For years, Arnar's Guðjón fought that the common people would have the opportunity to engage in free hand fishing. That fight even contributed to the problem. the opening of a beach fishing system over a decade ago. Coastal fishing, however, has given rise to much coastal fishing. Only days of a month can be caught and only on certain days of the week. Then the pot is small and run out regularly before the shore fishing season is over, so that many do not fully use their fishing rights. This may also be the case. In fact, a recently cut pot - so - called pot - has been cut by modern - day beach fishermen about 1,500 tons of water, one of the first ministers in office on December 23. A group of people have always supported free hand hunting. It is important to rebuild the right inhabitants of the marine settlement to use the sea resources in a way that allows families to survive fishing. A powerful miniboat structure allows for new life in the sealands and becomes an even more diverse form of employment and human life. It keeps everything in place and is economically practical. Freedom of hand fishing is a step toward reconciliation with conflicts over sea - business issues, which for decades have affected the public's belief in government and politics. It's time we let this little bill become the law. This would be a good step to reconciliation for the International Parliament on a controversy that has lasted over decades. These include: pointed out that a movie was filmed 20 years ago, called the Sea, which started a big discussion about the saying system. In February of the month, great scenes of the state of State and the social debate of the injustice and the injustices of the eating system and the fishing regime have been demonstrated for decades, and what kind of warfare it is against the settlements and simply betrays the government against the general people of the country and particularly the inhabitants of the country. As a result, this set up the free hand fishing bill with the conditions set out there. In Iceland, hand fishing may have been used from land mines, and Iceland was a year - old, year - old, herding farmers. Iceland's law has that mark. The book of John, registered in 1282, states in another capitala, with the permission of a president: ◯ The entire human population owned fishing outside the Internet law in an unsatisfactory manner. This has been a principle in Icelandic rights for hundreds of years and is still, i.e. That all men and women have the right to hunt without bounds. The people of the United States sought in economist civilizations for prisoners without restrictions on the part of the government until laws were passed over the 19th century, allowing them to limit and ban the use of individual fishing instruments in certain areas. As a result, there was permission to appease a unique region for hunting. Later, there was a legal requirement that individual fishing be subject to the permission of a sea leader. As the fishing industry continued to increase, restrictions and declines increased. The evacuation of land immunity to 200 miles [200 km] in 1975 was then created as the basis for relatively complete control. That same year, a report published by the Oceanographic Institute stated that the cod population was overfished and that fishing would have to be severely restricted. With law No. 81/1976, on fishing in Iceland, a minister was authorized to set the limit of the catch of each species during a period of time, and in 1977, for the first time, it was based on the design of a marine research agency, the introduced general restrictions on cod fishing. This method of fishing was primarily based on the markets, called a scribal system, and remained unalterable until 1983. It was then found that the system did not achieve the objective to avoid overfishing. At that time, the fishing fleet had grown greatly, with its members overfishing from strains that would not tolerate any restrictions and that would lead to today's peddler system. The aims of the saying system, the grammatical logic of the cry system, are to reduce overfishing as this has been traced. This has been done by all legislation since the birth of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures in 128 C.E. to limit fishing in the event of overfishing. There is the only objective reason to limit access to the resource. There is no other evidence. Giving hand fishing free won't lead to threats of fish stocks in Iceland. The grammatical arguments I've traced here are out of the question. The fish stocks of Iceland can't be destroyed by hooks and hookfishing. It's just not possible. Although the people of the land would try as they could, they would never ever succeed, so hand fishing is to be given free. On the other side of Iceland, there is one of the most productive fishing grounds in the world. That resource has been used by Icelanders since land was built. The inhabitants of the coastal areas are entitled to the fishing grounds off the coasts of the country. Since then, land mines have been built on fishing and agriculture. New industry, fish farms, and tourism are seasonal homepages. The government's restrictions on the fishing of the inhabitants from the coastal areas are limited to their farm rights, and this is evidence for free hand fishing. Restrainment of employment freedom must be based on strong reasoning, and it should not go beyond what is necessary. The height of fishing limit is to reach only those who threaten fish stocks, not to catch fish that do not threaten them. Opportunities do not threaten fish stocks, as previously said. Business life is the basis for the entire population, and the country's home is a fishing and agriculture base for the community. Tourism is certainly an excellent addition, but it is seasonal, as previously said. This is also related to something that will match the country's dwelling conditions and that is the basic right of all the people of the country. The choice of living in the country should not be a selection for impaired service or poor housing conditions or quality of life. The reduction in rights to handle such impairment is a decline in quality of life. It is said that the road to hell is a protection for good intentions. The anxiety system, established for temporary use in 1984, has had such concerns for many sealands. A cod target was reduced to 220,000 tons to build the cod population, which is the same as today. There is no result. There's no result of the present quota system. The numbers prove it. In time, only a few developers reached most of the catch market and looked little around the sea. The fear system continues to decline, and the population in the sea continues to decline. This trend will continue to be unrecognized by the sea settlement rights. There's a recognition of professional freedom and the right to live in this country. It is important to rebuild the right inhabitants of the marine settlement to use the sea resources in a way that allows families to survive fishing. A powerful miniboat building will allow new life in the coastal regions and will become the basis for an even greater variety of employment and human life. It keeps everything in place and is economically practical. Hence, a group of people are fighting for the inhabitants of the sealands and for the people to enjoy their resources. We want a new policy on the fishing grounds, where the resource is the national share, not the private property of the few people. We use this bill to show that the inhabitants of the marine region enjoy this increased justice that is so self - determination and that is their foundation. This is certainly a step toward reconciliation, as previously indicated. Coastal fishing, which was introduced some ten years ago, has proved to be useful for the scattered seas, although small. Coastal fishing is the least noise in the ocean, the lowest level of carbon and the highest value of the catch. Submarine has prevented compression and has prevented a wide variety of water exports in the region. But with continued government policy, it will not be. It is quite clear that the current coastal fishing system - it is simply not enough translocation, not enough income from this, families in the country cannot survive such fishing on a yearly basis. We also see this in an investment in boats that are virtually none. They're small boats, and there's no renewal in the boat fleet. The bioavailability of these fishing is limited to 48 days per year, the 12 days of the month, and it is clear that there is no access for young people who want to go to Norway. For example, in the magazine Fish and Kyst in Norway, we find an example of a growing group of young people who are applying for this work. It's something other than Iceland. Norway is therefore welcomed. This is because further renewal has been contributed, that new generations can participate in fishing and build their livelihood in coastal fishing. That's what Iceland's supposed to do, and that's the goal of this bill. The fight for free coastal fishing is the fight for rights, the struggle for employment freedom, and the right to live in. The limitations of professional freedoms must not go beyond necessities and limit coastal fishing and do not have the freedom - I would like to say that it is an indiscriminate limitation of employment freedom that almost does not resist a constitution. Why is that? Yes, it is because fishing by hand does not threaten fish stocks around the country. They won't. If anyone wants to come up and say yes, he'll be fine. It would be fascinating to hear the person argue that fishing for hooks, fishing hooks, threatens fish stocks on one of the most productive fishing grounds in the world. I challenge them to the same one to try to do the fishing. This is hard work and requires much endurance, often in difficult weathers, it is not for just anyone, it is a fishing process based on individual abilities and nothing else. This battle for equal dwelling rights and the right of the inhabitants of the sea settlements in the country will continue. This bill here is just a little step in that direction. Building in the country - this is a question of whether we will build this whole country or only here in the capital area, that it will also be inhabited in scattered regions like the West, Eastern Europe, and all over the country. This is a question of not accepting any alms from the capital area or the area of Reykjavík, where individual jobs are being required, of public employment, and of trying to arrange something here and there. It's a matter of putting the power back to the people, back home in the province, and this court will only be guaranteed by an increase in coastal fishing. I'm referring this case to why. Work committee and expect them to receive good treatment and be adopted as a law from the Council later at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson Eve coat for the bill's transfer. There's a lot of questions that wake up and a lot more than I'm putting in here in the next two minutes. As mentioned here in the report, the bill was originally submitted by the Guðjón - given son of Arnar Kristjánsson. His struggle led to and contributed to the opening up of coastal fishing over a decade ago. First of all, I would like to ask: Have you considered the influence of the bill on the marvelous system that I really support, the beach fishing? A transporter speaks of this bill being a means to have an arrangement that a family can enjoy. We're going to get a boat that's not more than 10 meters. In the Environmental and Transport Committee, I'm the head of a bill for the crews of ships that deal a great deal with the safety of sailors. It would be fascinating to hear how that security is assured in this regard. Then I would like to ask, " Is the fishing system a threat? ' Also, I would like to ask myself, " How do I feel about running this system in parallel to the beach fishing system without being limited on the market? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u82	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've been studying the origin of the current coastal fishing system and trying to locate the documents behind it. In fact, I have read a legal opinion that followed it and showed respect for the United Nations Human Rights Committee. When Iceland was judged, the European Court of Human Rights stated that the present fishing system is a violation of the sovereignty of the United Nations Convention of Human Rights. Hv. A senator refers to 10 meters. We had 10 meters inside, not less than 10 meters. In the old bill, there were 30 doxor Most. We can't confuse it with 30 tons, that's another concept. This question is about 10 meters [10 m] or even 12 feet [12.10 m], it should be enough. Regarding safety, the law says that the boat is approved for ocean control. Today's little boats are usually under 10 meters. Of course, in the case of a marine and a security problem, it is guaranteed. This would have to be a ship with an approved wallet certificate, so the safety would be completely in the current system. With regard to the present system, 48 days of the system, I imagine that by giving coastal fishing entirely free, the current system would end in time. As a matter of fact, I think it would wear off the same thing. There's no need to have 48 days when we've given up free beach fishing. The beach fishing system today is based on freedom, on the fact that individuals themselves have a boat, and this should be so that they should have the boats themselves. We can't get 50 boats and start making men out. That's basic. This is not a threat to fish stocks, but it is a substitute for the present system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u83	Thank you very much for your respect. A senator for the answer. This should replace the current coastal fishing system. Last year, about 11,000 tons were caught, and we have a tip of 220,000 tons of advice, such as poultry. A senator came in and claimed that there was no success in the saying that they had been assigned 40 years ago. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: If the advice was still 220,000 tons, how would it have been handled now if it had been limited to 40 years ago? Wouldn't they have been put on 1983, how would the fish stock look now, if there was no improvement in the saying system, which we could discuss in another conversation? So there's two questions about this. Then I find it very strange that we are not watching that we are more likely to increase the coastal fishing system, which has produced great coastal areas and is of great importance to the regions. In the coastal fishing system, bigger boats are available, larger boats, safer boats, and if we start looking to smaller boats, we're beginning to threaten a little bit of security. We're talking about a 9 - foot [9 m] boat with two men that can do everything around us for a year. Then I feel like we're going to have a little bit of a look at what this means, because we have a present system, we have this counseling system, and we've got a code set, and I don't understand how this fishing can be excluded if we're going to let it go free all year round.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his later stand. How is success measured? The cod was 220,000 tons, 1984. Today I think it's 220,417 tons. That's 471 tons of success. If you stand there's no result, it's just not. Actually, we're talking about a system that's not the beach fishing system, so we're in the middle of it. In the beach fishing system, if there's a lot of fish, I'm guessing there's a lot of hunting. A fishing hook is just so that it is not always the case. If you throw a hook or hook into the Fax Gulf, you may not be doing hand fishing there. The fish may not bite. I could tell somewhere that it was 0.6% hunting ability, or whether it was 0.06%. It would take hundreds of fish to swim past the bite. Whoever hunts with a trolley sweeps it all up. He'd take all the 1,000 fish. The art of hunting is completely different with a hook. The fact that all fish bite at any hook that goes into the sea so that all fish die and we spread fish plants are just not about to happen. It's never gonna happen, never ever. In terms of the size, we have 10 meters because it's the size that's being used today. We were thinking about 40 feet. But you're not going on a 20-yard ship with four rolls. It just doesn't happen. It's not like that. There's four rolls on a boat, on these 10-yard ships, up to 10 meters. It can be totally open for having 40 yards or bigger boats, that's no problem, but you're not gonna put four rolls on a giant ship. It's not gonna happen. This bill is to provide an opportunity for the region, an opportunity for marine settlements. I'm sure that's a problem. A senator is opposed to free coastal fishing that she simply says so. [[The president calls.]] The same thing with the left green, same thing with a fishing minister. But for God's sake, for God's sake, you're not going into a campaign to tell you that there's supposed to be more to shore fishing, to promote land settlements, to promote coastal areas, and then to do everything else when you get into this hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u85	The president reminds the speakers to respect the time of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u86	A respectable president. This is where we're doing a very short case since I can remember. Have I met beaches? Yes, the first time I went fishing for water was on a river boat in Elffit, six, seven years old. Then we went out and caught a fish, which was then hung in a hammock and dried and made for fish. I still remember, and I will always remember when I had a catfish to eat on the beach in Eelfjordur. I was a teenager, 14, 15 years old, when I took a handboat that got out of Reykjavík in the summer, and we went to Snowfells, under ice cold, and we caught it. There weren't any electrical rolls, there were just regular hand rolls, and it was really catchable at all. That was a good summer money we got. After getting to know these matters, I can say that this bill, like a messenger, is the people's bill. paritaprevir A ÁrmannssonEyjólfur Ever, it was so nice of you to tell me, it was just great. We are doing nothing but giving everyone around the country an opportunity, an opportunity that has been systematically killed by financial powers that have conquered almost all the quatans, large corporations that have become extremely powerful financially because they have received an amazing amount of quotas that they can use to heal their toes and fingers. As we have seen, the result of this marvelous fishing system, all of which are kissing some 400 tons in 40 years, is 220,000 tons. If we take only 10% of that 220,000, it's 22,000 tons. I doubt that even if we were to give free hand fishing, that would be the conclusion, and although it would be completely acceptable because it would give such a life to them based on the land that has already lost its entire shell. He has been sold away, and the people leave behind without any chance of calming down and saving themselves. We're not talking about anything very much. It's a 10-m boat with four rolls and these two electric rolls per person. So we should be able to support the bill in a very simple way. If we take our present coastal fishing system, it is good in many ways, but in many respects, too, the defect. It is this 48 - day rule and the surprising rule that only on certain days can it go out. What's it all about in Iceland telling someone that he can't go out when it's broke and the best weather to go fishing: no, you can't, it's not the right day? I think the people who created this system are the same team that came up with the development of the social security system, which is a faulty system, absurdly built up, and created in total stupidity, as if someone had the idea of trying to fuck people up, trying to fool them. This system is thus built up in many ways, which is completely incomprehensible. That someone should try to defend it rather than quickly sit down and try to change it and establish the system to be content with it, especially with the nation, since the people are certainly not satisfied with the current fishing system. I don't think there's anybody comfortable with this system unless those who make money on a finger, of course, they're happy: just great, let's fight with our mouths, we'll use all our money to fight for keeping the system as unchanged as possible. To claim that a free hand hunt with four rolls is gonna ruin the system, who's gonna think of such an idiotic thing? Yes, the propaganda men who don't want to yield. At the same time, we have hand fishing, which is eco-friendly, environmentally friendly fishing. Why is the shrimp stock crash? Why the lobster stock has fallen? Yes, because we've already drawn and we've ruined the bottom with a troll. The roll is one of the worst fishing instruments we can be fucking with. We will destroy the bottoms systematically in large areas. But we're going to keep doing this. It's okay to have one. But an eco-friendly system that doesn't destroy anything, where the rest comes ashore, and goes to the market 90% - no. It is all too wise for the government and for those who support this old out - of - date system that much of the nation does not want to see. It is, as I say, only the few percent who own all of this and can profit on their finger and toe from this system that supports it. It's not complicated. We're supposed to make sure that for all time, we're taking a stand on the coast, take a stand for the small villages around the country, where there was flourishing fishing, where people could safely sail out, just for a few hundred yards, just to get to the productive fishing grounds, and bring fresh fish to land, and take the most adequate route straight home. Sadly, though, the government has shown itself that there is no common sense. They're gonna go under their heads. They will continue to defend an inheritance - oriented system that says that fishermen can only hunt certain days a week, no matter how we treat them, they must do so well and not catch fish. Looking at this will further contribute to the threat of exposure. That they should not be allowed to choose according to their own wisdom, though they have 48 days in the system. We must trust sailors. Their safety is their life, so we should be able to trust them completely. This just shows how insane the system is and how bad the system is defending here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u87	A respectable president. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, and I pointed out in my history, this is a highly environmental fishing business. It's a little carbon track, very little. Why is that? Yes, we're taking a small boat out onto the tickets, shut off the engines, and start the electric rolls. The hunting itself does not leave its own carbon tracks. It's electric rolls, and after you've been caught, you're back in the country. Since environmental fishing cannot be found, a government that wants to be the best in a climate when it comes to carbon tracks should free these fishing. Others simply fail to resist an opinion based on environmental issues. The building grounds are quite clear, and they are in the country's settlements, based on their ability to travel to the centres outside the grid. The 82 - year - old Jón book of 122 is very clear in this regard. I used to review the limitations of hunting back here. They all depend on the fact that there is a peaceful, unique area for hunting, and then I'm talking about tug fishing, they all depend on the cod population being overfished, and they need to limit the cod fishing and avoid overfishing. You can't overfish the cod population of Iceland, Iceland's fish farms with hookfish. That's not possible. The fact that individuals receive four automatic rolls, handle handles, and plan to go fishing with it free, in the power of their professional freedom, will not threaten fish stocks. The evidence for the coast is clear. However, the evidence that they are not grammatical; they are not based on the protection of fish stocks, so clearly. What's happened with the saying system is that there's a system that's come up with some kind of system that's about to defend the system. That's what this is all about. I participated in discussions about eating sandmocks and sea water, and if you read the report, it's not about peace or protection from sandwashes. No, no, it's about how things went a little bad at the executives' hunting. That's why they were to be called in. That was the point. It was the evidence put on paper. There was nothing written in the paper, and I challenged everyone to read that report, that sandwash would be compromised. We can also take the gray patch. There was a discussion about it during the last assembly, before I came to work at the General Assembly. There's been no problem with the gray patch now, but it's still need to be checked out. There may well be some problems about repairs and such. These include: in a network of individuals' property rights. But it's becoming a big deal to defend the current system. To give only 12 hunting days a month, 48 days a year to catch, often to run out, very quickly during the hunt season and before it's over, is simply not enough, by no means. There is far too little freedom, and today families cannot live on these fishing grounds on a yearly basis. That's not possible. Even the European Union does not consider this to be a real business. This has been shown in their review. If you look at the numbers, investments in this article, you're keeping this out as some piece of food to appease people. I'm saying it's just a delusion. I have a lot of respect for the beach hunters in the present system. It's just not enough freedom, it's not enough job freedom, it's not enough money. They're going to hunt all year round. I've got information from some men who are in beach fishing and they're renting dinners at 330 bucks. the kilogram, then sell it at 365. ... andhegetfive. There may be a little more to such things as exaggeration and other matter to land. But there are also tenants in the coast who are buying goodbyes to try to save themselves. The fact that there are tenants in the coastal fishing system at this hunt is a complete scandal. They're supposed to give it away free. That would be a tremendous benefit to the sealands. Those who support this bill support the oceans. Those who oppose this bill are against the seas. It's crystal clear. Well, that's what it's all about, and that's it. Some members of the council have objected to other claims, but this simply is not true. The hypocrisy of this cry system is completely indiscriminate, and no one must doubt the rightfulness of the criticism that has been made, the rightfulness of the coverage that came from the Book of Versailles, and the rightfulness of the criticism that came from the film of the ocean that came out 21 years ago. This picture was opened in 2001. This period of time is again being considered on the basis of some kind of history. The apartment is a great factor, and they show the whites what was going on. Those closest to the law-enforcement power, those who were next to the political bitch, next to the Allied Council, rejoiced, and this is what it is. The code system is about making valuables out of the quatans, selling themes, they can be mortgaged. The lawgiver, the legal authority, is creating valuables that are independent of the hunt. Here is a small bill designed to respect, of course, the human rights that all are entitled to fish outside the Internet with handhand rolls, free fishing. There are no limits to this, except for the size of the boat and the climate, which have great influence and limits on the fishing process. It's hard work, hard work, and she's not all good at it. Not everyone who has a hunting tendency and has the ability to do this fishing. Again, I point out that in Norway, there is a much better bioavailability for young people to hunt and a great increase in young people fishing. Young people in Iceland will go to Norway to hunt, and they also leave the country for other reasons. This is the only hope for the seas and the country's settlements, to give these fishing free so that we can get our rights back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u88	A respectable president. This bill suggests that there will be a change in consumer loans law, No. 33/2013, consumer property loans law, No. 118/2016 responsibilities, No. 32/2009, and consumer contracts law, No. 16/2016. On the one hand, they submit to an objective improvement due to violations of consumer rights law and, on the other hand, to ensure that consumers will not be bound by unjust contracts by stating that such terms are uncontaminated, but the agreed agreement should otherwise remain unchanged. My importers are Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The aim of this bill is to promote the legal protection of consumers at the Icelandic financial market and to conform it to the criteria established in the European Court of Justice, particularly on the basis of the laws given to the above law, the European Commission's Directive on non-conformable terms in consumer agreements, two advisers of the EFTA Court's opinion on this subject and the multiplicity of the European Court of Justice. The bill is aimed at strengthening support to the principle that consumers should not be bound by unjust terms. Since this principle has not yet been sufficiently effective in this country, it is necessary to consider these rights of consumers more clearly than they have so far. It is obvious that consumers have neither the same responsibilities nor the responsibilities nor the financial companies are involved in making contracts, and they cannot be expected to have knowledge of it, as well as that which consumers should be able to trust that financial institutions have the right to do so. So the responsibility is on all their sides. Here we will first discuss objective benefits. To explain objective benefits, which are being discussed in the bill, you need to consider only the basic rules of damage rights. In general, the rule is that the criminal way of harm must be demonstrated in order to improve damages. If you are not able to show this to you, the damage is even damaged and the damage that can be done on your own. There is a risk of loss of tolerance, e.g. in traffic accidents, it would be hard to accept this understanding if it were laid to the foundation there. On the other hand, minor responsibility includes the fact that while criminal activity has not been shown to be harmful, it is still improved by the one responsible for it. For example, the provision of objective responsibility sets the pattern in laws relating to damaging responsibilities and the law on health insurance. A law on objective responsibilities thus sets the pattern in many places and applies no better than in consumers'business dealings with sellers of goods and services, where the situation between parties is often vast. In fact, the present law's law on reform adds little to the rights that otherwise would result from the general rules of damage to the rights, but this bill is taking an even greater influence on them. In causing the damage, damage to any kind of damage to the brain is caused by damage to the mind. It is, therefore, of highest importance, that damage can be caused by damage simply because no criminal conduct can be proved, especially if there is a cause for harm or an obvious difference between parties. By stating objective responsibility for violations of the law, it is assumed that the terms of illegal behavior are already met without any other demonstration of criminal conduct and are aimed at clarifying the rightfulness of consumers so that they can improve their damages. Next will be the invalidation of illegal contract conditions. The terms of non-concerned agreements and contract conditions that violate the law are foreshadowed by competitive law, by contracts, by commissions, and by invalid legal instruments, which were responsible for the implementation of the EU Directive on non-conformable terms in consumer agreements. This requirement suggests that contracts and contracts against laws of consumer rights are invalid and that the consumer's requirement should continue without invalid terms. Motives, including the U.S. The model at 33 C.E. A competitive song and 36rd par. c in the Act on Protocol, Enforcement and Invalid legislation, but the latter directive was part of the implementation of the European Union Directive on non-conformable terms in consumer agreements. Similar regulations were found in the 14th chapter. Law on consumer loans, No. 121/1994, who also agreed on mortgages to consumers from January 11, 2001, stated that it was forbidden to collect loans that would not have been informed on borrowing in accordance with the legal requirements. There is no such law, however, in the current law on loans to consumers, but since experience is given, it is a reason to make an issue of invalid terms, especially in that law. It is also stated in the rules that a contract should otherwise be demanded by the consumer, without any change, that it should be given without invalid terms. This separation is the same as in negotiations, No. 7/1936 with No. 14/1995, which was part of the implementation of the European Union Directive on unjustifications in consumer contracts. With experience, there is good reason to contend that this also applies to consumer loan agreements. It also supports the decision of the EFTA Court, which says, on permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. mg Section 6. Directive 93/13/EECE must be interpreted in this way that in the case that the National Court finds out that the terms of a certain contract are not entitled to be unjust by the directive, the court shall have to ensure that such a legal obligation is an irresponsibilities for the consumer, provided that the contract can maintain its value otherwise without the unjust terms as far as national rights allow. Further, the European Court's decision can be referred to, e.g. in the case of C-618/10 and others in which the following conclusions were reached, by permission of the President: A 1 mg/or a 1st bitch should be mentioned. Section 6. Directive 93/13/ECE to exclude the legislation of a member of the Member State... that allows for a national court if he finds that an unreasonable terms in a contract between a seller or host and consumer are invalid, to change that contract by reevaluating the terms of the terms. A similar law is found in the 14th chapter. a law on consumer loans from 1994, also applicable to consumers' mortgages from January 11, 2001, showing that it was forbidden to collect loans that have not been informed by borrowing in accordance with the regulations of the law. Based on the opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Commission on bill for consumer loans legislation, No. 33/2013, who removed older law on consumer loans, No. 11/1994, says that the committee responsible for the bill's contract did not feel the need to take comparable provisions into the bill, where the rule was a part of the current right to appear in Article 3. I'm going to fix the interest and insurance. However, the fact has shown that there is good reason to explain this rights to consumers, for the examples show that they are simply not clear enough in current legislation. The previous law has generally brought no consequences to the guilty lender's responsibilities. This has led to the fact that in late times when legitimate terms have been tried under current law, creditors even felt that they do not contain any direct consequences of offenses against them, despite the fact that in the above terms of the Economic and Business Committees are expected to be valid. It follows that it is necessary to take away any doubt about the current rights in such cases by stating clearly about him in the law to ensure the consumers of this country better the right that results from the relevant EEA rules, for this would be in accordance with the lawgiver's will as shown in the opinion of the Economic and Business Committee at its time. The law on home loans to consumers taking effect on April 1, 2017, included loans generally known as mortgage loans, which are cut off from the value of consumer loans and are subject to the new penalty on property to consumers. So as with other loans to consumers, the bill suggests that comparable regulations will be passed on to them on the consequences of offenses. In addition, the bill suggests that similar changes in responsible law will be made to make it clear that there will be objective and responsible contracts that violate the laws of the law are invalid. In accordance with the above recommendations, it is also suggested in the bill that comparable regulations will be passed on to consumer agreements on improvements due to violations of the law, as well as invalidities of contracts and conditions against them. As mentioned earlier, the objective of the bill is to promote and harmonizing the rights of consumer consumers at the Icelandic financial market and to conform to the criteria developed in the European Court of Justice, particularly on the basis of legal explanations of the above laws and the European Court of Justice. The bill is aimed at strengthening support to the principle that consumers will not be bound by unjust terms and if damaged they will always be satisfied. Since this principle has not yet provided sufficient effective implementation in this country, it is necessary to consider these rights of consumers more clearly than they have so far. In times of trial, it has been found that there is a wide pot broken in consumer protection in Iceland. The evidence presented here is an attempt to further and coordinate the decisions in the European Court and in the countries to which we want to compare ourselves. I trust the members of Congress will conduct this important course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u89	A respectable president. Here we deal with the bill to legalize consumer loan laws, home-estate loan laws to consumers, responsibilities and the law on consumer contracts (unrecounting conditions in consumer agreements). This bill is very much needed. Transporter's down. paritaprevir This bill Ásthildur the Lóa Þórsdóttur and all of the people's members are behind them. As I say, it's a long time and a good time to clean up the consumer business in Iceland. Unfortunately, it has to be said as it is that we are kind of on the back of the business. Sadly, consumers have been so justified in terms of large financial companies who have had unlimited money and lawyers and have a much better position to justify and achieve their rights, whether they are legal or illegal. Justice is something we need to consider carefully on consumer issues. The responsibility is usually wondered by those who can live up to it, i.e. banks and financial companies, over to the consumer, who is absolutely unable to live up to this responsibility because he does not have the perspective that the creditors have. As a result, it tells us that there is not equal between them, which is basically Davíð fighting Golíatur. The most terrifying part of this is how financial companies have somehow been able to dress up, put on belts and bracelets, and do whatever they want, because it's all about their ability to achieve their rights, whether it's legal or illegal. If a consumer finds himself in a wrong, and he is faced with the need to seek justice, he usually gives up. He doesn't have the authority to fight this system. We know this especially from the bank crash, and I know it personally in the bank crash and face the fact that a person's loan is being collected illegally, and it has been accepted illegal but still has to fight to gain justice. It was far from easy. And the threats and coverts that were running and that they can be moved - you go to one institution and you take a certain loan there, and that's not right. Then, because the whole system collapses, you only have to pay and still pay, even if the whole system has already been borrowed, or if it is properly sold or passed over to another or third party. There you are going to start fighting the party about paying something that you cannot pay because the original mortgage for the borrower is long gone, and it is not even yours anymore. So we'll just see how amazing the rights of those responsible for this are different from those who don't have the knowledge to deal with big financial companies. That's why I say it's very good, and so is responsible men. We have this amazing system, a responsible system, which has been on the side of a nation, which is a complete failure to us because, unfortunately, this has led to an incredible failure to many families, far beyond the individual who originally borrowed and has even caused chain - carrying bankruptcy. So we're supposed to take this whole system over for a review, and this is a step. I support this matter with my whole mind, hoping that now the government will finally be boarded up, and the government will step up and stand for the consumer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u90	A respectable president. Remarks headed for the same goal as the bill have been submitted at least Eight times before, last of the 151st legislature. The bill is about to arise from the initiative of the household's Habitat Association, and it is based on the same argument given to the former embryos of the same material. This bill suggests a modest change that can have a great deal to do with the consumers'wages, resulting in loss of their home on an overdue sale. It's really called a key bill. My importers are Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. According to information provided by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, cases involving the posts of mortgages are followed by forced sale among the most common people that have been installed on the board, and even consumers are still being demanded of suspected posts, even though they have been fully paid for their forced sale. Since this is now required at 38th. Law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, for example, to offer alternative options before requiring an obligatory sale, it is likely that everything else will be fully developed before it is due to the fact that a creditor has no predictable means of living up to the commitments of his housing. In such cases, it is always safe to conclude that the terms of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of debt beyond the value of real estate. Is it, therefore, to promote a more efficient solution that the remaining bets due to mortgages fall behind forced sales of consumer property, as well as which would share the risk of borrowing fairly between loans and creditors? According to information provided by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, cases involving the posts of mortgages are followed by forced sale among the most common people that have been installed on the board, and even consumers are still being demanded of suspected posts, even though they have been fully paid for their forced sale. Although it is not legal to require consumers for postmortems to be marketed real estates enough for after forced sales, there are many examples. There consumers are badly at stake, both because they do not know their rights and therefore obviously do not seek it, but also because there is no equal between them and the demands. They simply cannot afford the strokes that would follow, ending the death of people who in general have lost their housing without money and are therefore easy victims. Since this is now required at 38th. Law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, to offer alternative options before requiring an obligatory sale, it is likely that everything else will be fully developed before it is due. As a result, the creditor's assessment must be that a consumer does not have the predictable means to live up to the commitments of his home. It should be obvious, then, that when the consumer is sold in his home, he has no chance to meet the increased demands. Thus, the nature of the problem is that there is a requirement for canceling debt beyond the value of real estate, which is exactly what this bill involves. Today, it might be possible to argue that such laws are not necessary, but the experience of thousands from the 2008 bank collapse shows that it is not absolutely necessary. Many cases in the past and are chasing people into the red death after selling their property at auction have entered the household's Economic Association. Official figures on a successful budget from the collapse of this case can also be cited to support the 152,117 people today. You see, these cases keep the banks awake, and they are people who have truly been peripheral in Icelandic society. There is no financial rights, no credit card, no contracts, no washing machine on the payments, or just doing some of it in life that requires some kind of financial commitment. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans by handing debts to mortgage loans, i.e. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and giving domestic loans that there is a one - sided risk on loans. It is also the objective of the bill to contribute to the effective implementation and implementation of the European Parliament Directive and the Council 2014/17/EU from February 4, 2014, for the loan agreements for consumers in the setting of housing and Member States. The directive's regulations have largely been legalized in this country by the law on property loans to consumers. In view of the indications that have been received regarding the implementation of the law, the aim is to sharpen them further in order to enhance and better explain the rights of consumers in this field. By means of a bill, it is suggested that a set of values be established. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Because of values, a demandsant recognizes a different payment as sufficient, so that the demanding relationship between demands and debt ends in a way that was not originally planned. In this way the bill assumes that the requirement for a reimbursement agreement on mortgages, where loans are guaranteed by mortgages in the purchased estate, will be agreed to to accept that the surrender of the owned property into its hands is considered to be a complete payment of half a debt equal to the fact that the commitment has been fulfilled. It is assumed that the test will be made only in need, e.g. When a credit card has been given to the creditors and the legal rights of demands to seek the full extent of its demands, it has been effective. A report by the International Advisor Society London Economics, 2012, on resources for consumers in financial difficulties is very much discussed on top of values such as those discussed in this issue. It shows that similar resources have long been available in many U.S. countries and have since crashed into Europe, particularly in Spain. The European Commission's guidelines also set out in the June 1, 2015, European Commission guidelines on underdevelopment and forced sales for more details on how to handle these matters. This suggests that the candidate should be sufficiently moderate in such measures to the consumer. That hasn't been the case here. There have been a number of cases where moderate honor has not been guarded and has overdone to consumers in behalf of demands. The need for legalizing measures, such as those recommended by the bill, was clearly seen following the 2008 financial collapse when the gang of the crowning labor fortunes caused the success of the loan agreements to become too much for the debtors. The grappling effects of the gang's success resulted in comparable consequences to the price of loans. The lack of intelligence faced by consumers caused an unprecedented riot in the community that followed. It is essential to learn from experience and to implement resources to prevent the recurrence of history. Getting that experience would be a great improvement in strengthening the status of the debt of real estate loans in the way the bill calls out. In addition to bringing about the necessary resources needed to cope with economic problems, the potential risk distribution would encourage loan institutions to pursue more successful loans. Thus, the bill is designed to make the interest of lenders and consumers put together beyond what is now defined by a consumer's being able to live up to the cities of his mortgage, and the value of real estate will not be much less than the value of the loan agreement. This would reduce the likelihood of the formation of real estate vaccines, such as those formed in the 2008 or 2019 to 2021 years before the collapse. In the long run, changing the environment in this respect would lead to poor loans, achieving the benefits of society. In the reply of the Minister of Justice to a petition for forced sales and bankruptcy in 2018 as well as to the response of the social and equal Affairs Minister to a request for forced sales and remuneration in the same year, it was found that in the past ten years, at least 9,195 individual property has been sold under compulsion or due to payment. No doubt more families have lost their homes by other means that there are no official numbers and since everyone does all they can to negotiate before an underdeveloped sale, it is reasonable to assume that those who lost their homes by other means, such as the one who lost their homes will not be able to do so. after failure or emergency contracts at the bank, at least Even so many. The domestic economist groups have discussed 15,000 families, which must be viewed as a careful estimate. However, the absence of accurate figures over these families is a major mistake, but there is another story that will not be discussed here. Despite this experience, small defenses have been built in behalf of the households. As evidence of this, a report by the Minister of Justice, on the implementation of the Commission on the terms and laws of forced sales from 149th legislation, shows that there is no particular attention to whether a lender has met the criteria of 38 gr. law on home loans to consumers in the implementation of forced sales. The bill aims to improve this, consumers to benefit. According to the 38th paragraph. legal on consumer mortgages is obliged to provide consumers with resources, such as reimbursement or return of loans, which could solve the problems of consumers before requiring forced sale. Thus, the lawgiver's will is to appoint a forced sale as a means of success in such cases and to make any way impossible, including the way to negotiate. When this is the case, the consumer's financial situation must always be limited in view of debt, so it is a serious matter to provide a solution to the consumer's situation under such burdens, as has been sought in late times, e.g. with a law on individual payment, changes in bankruptcy laws, and with financial support laws to pay insurance for bankruptcy costs. In such cases when all other things have been fully developed before forced sales are required, it can always be concluded that the conditions of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of mortgages beyond the value of real estate. Is it, therefore, that in such cases, there is a tendency to increase the effectiveness of a solution to the situation that, according to the bill, the principle that the remaining debt due to real estate loans will fall down in the wake of an forced sale on consumer's property. This production of the bill has taken into account comments that have appeared at earlier levels, including from the office of the agent's office of creditors with reference to the law on forced sales. According to 57th. 6 / 15 " You Are God's Ministers, " No. 90/1191, the bail holder who cannot meet the demands of forced sales may not require loans for the payment of his demand unless he can show that the market value at the time of the forced sale would not have enough to pay them. This can only be the case in cases where retail prices of an obligatory sale are under the market value, but if the price of gambling is higher than the market price of the prize, a debtor can pay off dues than the share of the market and have lost insurance on his property as a result of the forced sale. In fact, it should never be said that if one of the employees automatically exceeds the value of the mortgage, it would be advisable to ask for property on the market to avoid that position. If the price of gambling is also paid under the market value of the property, the provision will lead to the release of a debt. This is true regardless of type or type of requirement, whether legal or individual, of any debt. Here's the basic reason to put the requirements under market value, of course, the borrower should get the difference between what he owes and value the property in his pocket, but not so, and unfortunately, it is not taken in this bill but waits for a better time. Confirming accounts of property, usually obtained by the demanding owner of the bank, far under market prices, there are many who later sold back on market prices. To make matters worse, it is often not enough for the bank to chase down the debtor for what he says is missing. No wonder the banks made a lot of money from collapse. This bill's principle is that no matter whether a debt is needed or not, after the auction, there is a debt of cash. As noted earlier, there must be absolutely exceptions to the fact that a creditor does not live up to the demands of demands, so that there are requirements that were originally established by means of mortgage loans to consumers would result in the release of a debt. The bill is limited to those that have formed on the basis of land loans to consumers and not to other species, as it is not its objective. So if the bill is legal, it goes on again with regulations of 57th. Invested sales, when demands are based on contracts for consumer mortgages. On the other hand, the law holds its value against other demands to form requirements based on the legal agreement on mortgage. In the 5th. The bill is suggested to add a paragraph to the 57th paragraph. This is explained by an arrangement for forced sales. In order to contribute to more efficient implementation of 38th par. Furthermore, the law on home loans to consumers is proposed to provide specific changes in the laws on forced sales to make more sure that the conditions of the articles are met, cr. Twenty-two-six. par. The bill. The safety of consumers in financial markets is little or no. The difference between consumers and banks is so great that the illustration of David and Goliath cannot describe the situation as it is. It is the fact that banks are being monitored and that they are acting their way, no matter what it is that they may be doing. An intimacies experienced by an error are an opportunity to seek justice from the courts. It is called an equal foundation. One worker, perhaps in the middle, but the loss or loss of his home as well as his pockets, against a huge bank - it can never be the same. This, however, is what we call the United States of Iceland as an equal. In addition, when judges of Icelandic courts seem to view consumer rights as something on top of bread, an aggressors that they have a bit of a loathing, they are not looking for good. The consumer is no match for this power. That is why I have personal and heartless experience, which, unfortunately, is not unique. It is therefore ours, the Lawgiver, to make sure that consumer rights are clearly clear that there is never any way a judge can turn them out in any way. This bill is only one factor in this process. I was counting on the support of all of you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u91	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the law on consumer mortgages and forced sales. Transporter's down. paritaprevir The Australian Ásthildur Þórsdóttir and the entire group of Ganggs are all over the bill. Real estate loans and real estate transactions - it has to be said just as it is that it is incomprehensible that we should not be getting things fixed at all times since collapse. That it was not learned from the collapse of the bank, and right away the extraordinary injustice presented there is a disgrace to us, or rather, to governments who have been in power since then to extreme shame. It is also the government under which the collapse of the bank took place to shame in the way it went to the public, how thousands of possessions were taken possession of property. Their posts are terrible. Therefore, the group of people supports this bill that if people end up in the collapse of the bank crash, they can turn in the keys, as many civilized nations would permit, and thus owe the people of that property. It wasn't like that in the collapse. It used amazingly to impress those who had lost their home. People fell from their own home, perhaps paying a hundred thousand dollars. of mortgages a month and landed in a rented market, where they had to pay twice as much. Although the bank had already taken possession, it did not consider leaving the individual alone for one second but began to set standards and follow the person far beyond death and grave if necessary. That's what happened to you. A senator who sold these assets at auction as an auction selling them far below the market value of a senator named Hannah Þórsdóttir. But there were no comments on this, and as a result, the amount the bank or the person received may have been just their mortgage, there were more debts on that property, and this debt went after the person in court and bankrupted it. This was incomprehensible because, as noted, these assets were often sold under market prices that otherwise would have depended on all the debts of the individual's property. But no one was thinking of trying to see for all time that there would be an even separation so that the person would not have to be in prison for the rest of his life. But that was the fact, and the fact is that many of us who lost our possessions back then faced an incredible battle trying to save us. Many went to a credit agent who tried to save themselves that way. It had very strict rules, and then it had to deal with some incredibly evil lawyers who were just sociopaths, I would say. They didn't give a fuck whether things were legal or illegal, doing what they did. We've seen some ugly things in this context. One of the bad things we've seen in these cases is the small loans, which are a lousy part of the system, and people have been badly treated. It is the fact that the collapse of the bank is not completed and will not be finished that I count until this government is removed and the government is made up of power that really thinks about the people first and then all the rest. Not that money is taken first, and then people can just eat what they're hiding, as governments in the past few decades have done. I know there's little chance that this bill will pass through with this government, but I know the public will support it. I sincerely hope that there will not be much time for justice to be done in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u92	A respectable president. I'm putting in here a bill for reimbursement, No. 95/2008, in terms of permit collection companies. Transporters to my bill are Eyjólfur' son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. I'm going to start by asking two questions: Is the same thing the collect business and law firm? Do collect companies and law firms perform the same kind of work? The answer to these questions is clearly no. There is an entirely different field of activity, although it can overlap in certain cases, e.g. If law firms have to collect something for a customer, but that doesn't make them company companies. In this country, there are a lot of collect companies, and then we're not talking about the banks. Even if banks collect loans, they don't collect companies. This is essential, not the core, of their activities. In Iceland, however, there are a lot of companies who only or so only collect individuals and companies but, unfortunately, these companies do not sit at the same level. Significantly, their position at the table is determined by the manner of their ownership. Depending on whether their owner is an attorney or not, or whether the attorney chooses to go to the taxpayer's law or to take advantage of the gaps in the collections that this bill is intended to fill in. Companies involved in collecting laws need to apply for employment and to be monitored by the F.O.A. To prevent misunderstandings, some of these enterprises are owned by lawyers or in any way, but not all lawyers are as honest. Some lawyers, for their sole reasons, prefer to do so under the shelter of their legal rights and thus avoid fulfilling the government requirement to obtain permission to collect, as well as to get under the supervision of financiers. At least one of these unauthorized collection companies was heavily charged with the collection of illegal loans. It was so big that it was run as a branch office for a foreign loan company, which still served in the country under Icelandic brands and under the cover of a foreign social security number. The unauthorized collection company was hard at hand, but when they complained about the business, they were very expensive, as it turned out that the Fed had no jurisdiction over the company, for they had never applied for permission or met any conditions of the collection laws for a special company. The company was run as a law firm, although it solely collected small loans, and it was likely founded solely on the objective of collecting small loans of the Icelandic product products of this foreign company. In 2014, the World Health Organization (I.A.R.R.S.R.S.R.S.S.S.R.S.S.A. reported a complaint to the Generalist for these unauthorized collections, which I will follow. When the consumer organization began working on matters on a small loan, they tried to complain to the law firm who is the only partner responsible for this unauthorized collection company. First of all, the Neythal Society was not allowed to complain because they were not a party. This is something that both they and the household's Economic Organization have often come into play. There it is necessary to improve legislation, and I will deliver a bill on the rights of consumer organizations shortly here at the council to correct it. The following example illustrates the need for this. The organization found one of the victims of the company, but it pointed out that the complaint had to be directed to the lawyer who owned the company personally and not to his company. The legal ruling committee gave a decision that included a number of cases in a previously defined form of form, but it believed that the lawyer's behavior was critical. The owner of the unauthorized company responded by heading the person who was written for the charges. He may be entitled to defend himself, but his victims too. By not applying for the rights of the documents, the owner of this unauthorized body of retailees actually dissuades the possibility of seeking their rights by sending a complaint to the Fed that is to be handled on such matters. It was right in 2014 that the National Institutes of Economic Affairs sent a complaint to the Allied agent for this unauthorized collection company. Nevertheless, they still work today without permission and without financial supervision under cover of legal rights to their owners. The bill I'm measuring is based on the opinion given by the Alleglers' agent for the complaint of the Actors Association of the Homes on the lack of monitoring of collect activities as early as 2014. In the case of the matter, it was found that several firms engaged in such activities were under unsupervised, as it was unclear whether they were under the supervision of the Commission or Iceland's Legal Association, with the result that neither of them were actually monitored by the Rapporteur and were considered to be reformed. With law No. 55/2018, however, changes were made to collect documents that were intended to respond to the findings of the Allegorium agent in the former case, which actually went in the opposite direction. The inside law was changed so that, in addition to lawyers and law firms, lawyers, who are altogether owned by one or more lawyers or law firms, could collect without permission. You must ask yourself, " Why did the lawgiver decide to go that way? ' This change was actually contrary to the cause of the complaints involved. Instead of sharpening the permit, it was extended without reasonable support. There is still a goal to collect firms owned by lawyers who will not be under the supervision of the SEC or Iceland's Legal Association, where only lawyers are involved but no societies. At the same time, legal legislation is subject to legal restrictions. Since that change was made in 2018, it has been suggested that it was not as expected. It appears that the work of a collected company is still unsupervised or unclear, and the change has not taken away any doubt about it. This bill has been negotiated in such indications. The exchange of retailers into two collections, one and the other, those who are under the supervision of the SEC and the other, to certain persons who are not allowed to do so, such as. Officials, financial companies, lawyers, and law firms in themselves are not abnormal in view of the fact that financial companies, for example, are already under the supervision of the SEC, but Iceland's Police Association is in control of legal matters. In this way it is reasonable to assume that the special status of the lawyers according to the collection laws is due to collecting the demands of clients often involved in legal action which can be defined as a secondary job with the main activity, i.e. Law service. However, it has been noted that this is abnormal and can create uncertainty and failure in monitoring if companies who have collected that their main activities could avoid the duties of the Marketing Authorisation simply by signing their owners as lawyers. At the same time, it is a fall to disrupt the competitive position of retailers with a license that meets all the conditions that other companies in the same market can have a permit. Therefore, with the bill it is suggested that a clearer separating be made between enterprises through legal services as main activity and companies that have collected for others as primary activity and that any disproportionate analysis of the activities of the latter, regardless of ownership, will be made. In view of the indications given by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, it is also suggested to enhance the information related to the provision of consumer rights and to require the monitoring of the business sector by other sources according to the regulations on business control and marketing. According to a survey conducted for a group of White Books on a vision of the future for financial systems, 62.9% did not know which one would be looking outside a business bank because of a conflict with the bank or a complaint. This suggests that the general awareness of such measures is low among consumers and therefore a reason to improve it. Directives on the obligation to have information on decision-making and legal matters in case there are differences between employers and consumers. ... inthePresidents of finance, consumer loan law, mortgage laws to consumers, consumers' version and treatment laws and payment laws. Therefore, in view of the EEA agreement's objectives for effective consumer protection, the addition of Article 6. A well collected collection form will be included with two new paragraphs, as follows, by permission of the president: It is also considered against a good collection practice to insist on paying a debt higher than is permitted under local laws and regulations. The internal Court shall have access to information on decision-making and corrective measures in case there are differences between the tax collectors and the creditors. In this way it will be defined as part of a good body of collections to inform consumers of decision-making and rights if there is a disagreement with the body collected. Furthermore, it will be decided that it is generally forbidden to require loans to pay more than permissible costs, such as on consumer loans, to require a requirement. The principle must be that the competitiveness of an enterprise is equal. It is obvious, however, that there is no equal or equal competition between the enterprises that meet all laws and obligations and those who do not. The main evidence to agree with this bill is that we are all supposed to be equal in law, and no one is supposed to escape legal requirements for his activities by playing chess in the covert of deception. This is also a question of consumer protection, for if a body member does not have to submit to supervision or conditions until those involved are more likely to be broken by consumer protection laws, as well as where the consumer cannot consult any complaints. So the bill suggests that an expanded legal force belonging to lawyers and law firms, which are not really law firms, but that all such companies will be removed, and all such companies will be committed on an ongoing basis, regardless of their owners. Still, lawyers and law firms can do business without special authorization, as this would be a part of their legal profession. I encourage senators to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u93	A respectable president. Here's another bill for Fuckers. Transporter, boy. paritaprevir The Australian Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, and the whole group of Shockers are behind the bill, an essential bill that would have had to be passed long ago. It involves small loan companies, which have been incredibly carved, and the way they have horrified themselves here after the collapse and harassed poor people. It is amazing, and it tells itself that such a loan is only in need. Not only are poor people in need but I know that I took these loans to buy food and teenagers for some reason did not realize how dangerous those loans were but most of them were in terrible trouble. To our shame, the law can be passed and so devastating, as the loans are where interest is grown up to hundreds of percent or thousands. We don't have to go back very far when someone offered some of the things because of a tremendous profit, some 20-03-30%, and the person was prayed that he was doing the start of a yoking business by offering so much interest. Then everything was given free, and they were allowed to do anything. So when they were to be monitored, they seemed to be able to do everything they could and could not reach them. I hope this is one way of stopping this jungle from working hard that's going to get the worst of it. I support the bill with my mind. All that's done to bond this operation, this illegal and inhuman business of small loan companies, I support my mind. It is really incomprehensible that governments after government have kept doing so without handling it and stopping it once and for all. We are shamed that such a bill simply needs to be put forth to stop this operation and try to bond it. It is particularly shameful for those in the government, and shows exactly where their minds are; for those who are greedy for wealth to get in touch with those who should, for those who are trying to save themselves because they do not have enough initiative. It's a good bill, and hopefully it'll get through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u94	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in rural income law, No. 4/1994 in terms of the share of property taxes. Artists are Eyjólfur Ármannsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. The bill rests on the principle that taxes should never go up automatically but must always be discussed by the competent authorities, which, in turn, leads to a decision made by someone or someone who has political responsibility. That's not how real estate taxes are treated. Real estate tax has so far been determined as a share of real estate evaluation, but according to the law, it is always updated on a yearly basis by a treatable real estate that is expected to be available for its sale on a public market. Thus, if the market rises, property taxes will automatically rise, no matter what the cause of the rise. As real - estate prices increase, this does not automatically lead to increases in pay or the financial resources available to people or businesses. In fact, it does not really make sense that in conditions such as those of today's real estate markets, where property is overemphasis, it will automatically lead to greater pressures on companies or ordinary people who are not in any real estate concern. In recent losses, real - estate prices have increased rapidly, resulting in significant increases in taxes in figures, regardless of the percentage of taxes in individual rural areas. The increased tax burden has weighed heavily on vulnerable groups, e.g. those who have come up in debt of little or no debt, but because of old age, disability, or other circumstances, they need to rely on the minimal progress of the social security system and have limited or no chance of increasing their income. The increased tax burden has thus diminished the standard of living for these groups. It must never be forgotten that while prices of property are increasing because property in the same neighborhood was purchased by booming prices, the provision of the owner's property does not increase. This bill, therefore, is suggested to eliminate the pressures of real estate taxation on real estate evaluations and, instead, the tax will still be placed on as a certain amount on every square area of real estate fixed, objective and predictable size. Since reasonableness must also be exercised, the first decision of the sum must be made to make sure that the resulting application will not be more burdensome than otherwise would have been under the rules that have been valid so far and should be balanced in that decision. It is expected that rural society will have and can have access to all the necessary information available from the public databases to determine this amount so that it will least function as a rural society and its individual population. When necessary, it is permitted to raise the tax money, but it is suggested in the bill that such a decision be reasoned and published publicly. Furthermore, this increase is suggested to a maximum of 2.5% per year in accordance with the government's official inflation goals so that the tax does not promote further inflation. In Iceland, property taxes are estimated to be the highest in the North countries, calculated as the proportion of land production, or 2% compared to, for example. 1% in Sweden. This increase in tax burden may result in loss of employment, especially small companies and stores, where housing costs are relatively large expenses. Furthermore, it has come to the view that it is unusual for taxes to automatically increase without the rural society that actually imposes taxes on its inhabitants. Instead, the bill assumes that the amount of property tax will always be subject to the decision of the local government each year and need to be reasoned and published publicly, so that such decisions are in accordance with the best administrative laws and careful administrative practices. I believe the monarchy is that members of the United States, on the contrary, can unite that spontaneous tax increases should never be tolerated. The decision of taxes requires political responsibility, and politicians should never be able to back off and take responsibility for the taxes placed on their clients by hiding behind the market. This bill places the responsibility for real estate taxes on politicians who have volunteered to live up to that responsibility. This actually means just two things. First, to aim at the unit in terms of real estate costs, and second, that rural society may take a moderate measure of unity's decision so that it will be no more burdensome than the rules that have been valid so far. Transporters on this bill with me are AarhusmanÁrmannsson Eyjólfur, Guðmundur Inn Kristinsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. I expect a body of Congress to give the bill this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u95	A respectable president. Actually, this bill doesn't give much weight to itself, but it's a big deal, because if we look at business partners, it's three. It's, first of all, a real estate tax, second of all, the expansion of rural society, i.e. As an equation fund, and third, an answer. Here it is suggested that property taxes should be developed according to their area in square metres. Furthermore, the local government is permitted to set a variable amount of tax on every square meter of real estate in a number of subsidies here five. Then I'd like to ask if it is the meaning of this bill's carriers that each member of the community settles down and decides the currency it intends to place on its population or property tax, whether it is reasonable that each member of the community is involved in this and how one rural society could be moderate in this respect. According to the current law, annual property taxes should be placed on all the property evaluated in real estate, and institutions for the stress of property taxes on all real estates should be their real estate evaluations. It is, in fact, a firm society is getting the stress stock ready. The law says that a community has a tax rate that may be up to 0.5% of the real estate assessments on apartments, up to, so each community has the power to go up to that tax, but not beyond that with special stress. They can also choose to have 0.2 at the same time, for example. Here in Reykjavík. How on earth is this supposed to be normal within the communities of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u96	President. Regarding whether a community has to make a decision on its own, the stress of real estate costs and each percent should be or the cost of each square cent in its own community, or whether it's made up of any decision, I don't know in itself if it should be. There must be ways to do that. What this matter is about, however, is that there have become quite a number of benefits from keeping real estates high. These are spontaneous taxes, something that goes up automatically, and it just doesn't work out that there's no rules about it and that political elected agents, they have no political responsibility for how property taxes are in their rural communities only to a small extent. They can't go higher than any particular value to real estate prices, yet real estate pays. As we have lately, real estate prices rose in a very fine way. It doesn't change people's disposition. It doesn't matter if it's acquired and improved, as financial ministers always talk about, because it lives suddenly in what the market says is more expensive. They still have the same thing between their hands to stand under the house, to buy milk and bread, and so on. They got nothing more between their hands. There's a tax that goes up automatically and nobody's responsible. It's just being suggested that he be predictable, that people can see, if they buy property which is this many square feet, what they pay for property taxes, and that they can't raise more than 2.5% a year. That is a decision, one can be asked about it, and there is some responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Now, it's the responsibility of an elected representative to look after the financial situation of a rural society, so with this tool being proposed here, this will be very different in property, for example. Just 30 m2 houses on the Pacific and 30 m2 houses here in the East. The local community cannot change its location. Is there a local community in the West, now located in the Horn Coast, that has a total dollar in square meters, rather than a city of Reykjavík, which has more than millions of square feet? As I would like to ask about the B- force, i.e. that rural management is permitted to set a variable rate of tax per square meter in the category of rural and land-infestations, outdoors, and constructions on farms. Today, however, farms may be quite large, and this does not refer to any type of land. Let's just take the average sheepland in Skavegur, which is 4,000 acres, 40 million square feet [40 million square meters]. In such cases, what is the visualization of the price of real estate on a square meter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-03-46.u98	Madam President. This bill focuses primarily on an apartment building. I'll just admit that I don't quite have what the price of being on Earth is, but I'm assuming that rural society can make those decisions on the natural basis, based on the fact that they're here on land. Regarding the situation, society has to be moderate, and there is no need to be anywhere more square in Iceland than in Reykjavík, but I don't see a barrier, so it's the same thing. But all I feel is that the government needs to take responsibility for this and find out what they're going to make, and then voters get their opinion of it when it comes to elections.
