ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u1	The president would like to announce that at a meeting of the future committee held on Friday, January 28, we were elected president of Logi Einarsson and Deputy Director Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigesdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u2	A respectable president. Last week there was a review of a number of reports of children's fractures. The summary shows that reports have increased by less than 17% during the period of 2020 and 2021 - 17% during the Covid season. If it has ever been difficult to control one's emotions in this discourse, it is now. In 2021, almost 40% more reports of child abuse were received than in 2020. If you weigh 2019, the difference is even greater, or about 52%. That, a respectable president, is evolution in the opposite direction. It is an unacceptable situation without pleasure. Reports from schools and health systems have also been increasing. It can be assumed that professional notifications are based on probable suspicion and that this increase should be taken seriously. Behind anyone growing, many lives lie in ruins, wounds that never heal, life that will never be. While there is reason to be concerned about the progress of the children in learning, reports of child neglect due to study have increased particularly, and it may be likely that the limitations due to disease prevention have had a tremendous impact there. Questions need to be asked about the following: How to support these children so that neglect does not have a long - term impact on their learning careers. I'm going to ask the Minister of Child Affairs to file a response. I consider it one of our most urgent tasks here to avoid this trend that threatens the health and well - being of our children without regard for any decisive action and response. I encourage the Minister of Child Affairs and Congress to be with the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u3	A respectable president. On the other side of Iceland, there is one of the most productive fishing grounds in the world. This resource has been used by Icelanders since its construction. The inhabitants of the coastal areas are entitled to the fishing grounds off the coasts of the country. It has been built from land mines based on fishing and agriculture. The government's limitation of the fishing of inhabitants from the coastal waters is restricted to the marine habitats. Restrainment of employment freedom must be based on strong reasoning, and it should not go beyond what is necessary. It's moderate. The height of fishing limit is to reach only those who threaten fish stocks, not to catch fish that do not threaten them. Manual fishing is not a threat to fish stocks. It is said that the road to hell is a protection for good intentions. The anxiety system, established for temporary use in 1984, has had such concerns for many marine settlements. A cod target was then reduced to 200,000 tons in order to build up the cod population. It's the same fishing warrant today. There is no result. In time, only a few developers reached most of the catch market and looked little around the sea. The fear system remains unchanged, and the coastal areas continue to decline and the population declines. This trend will continue to be unrecognized by the sea settlement rights. It is a recognition of professional rights and housing rights. A violation of voluntary hand fishing is a violation of human rights, showing the opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, which appeared in 2007. Today, it is based on the current coastal fishing system, and there is nothing but a lack of evidence. Today, there is no difference between large - sighted trawlers and small boats, even though it is known to be a very low catch, but according to the SECs itself it is 0.6%, meaning that only six fish are caught by every 1,000 fish that are exposed to the hooks. It is important to rebuild the rights of the marine settlement in order to use the sea resources in a way that families can survive. A group of people will fight for free hand fishing during the election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u4	A respectable president. Filtering has attached purchases on the Earth of Fannar Valley in Norway and is planned to use it for forestry to bind carbon to carbon emissions caused by the company's activities. The policy is that the proposed forestry of the Fandar country will be carried out in cooperation with the State's forestry. The project is to satisfy all the demands of the European Commission on certification and to be implemented for registration in Iceland's Air Climate Index according to the company's web. It is a pleasure to have the company focus on environmental projects. A respectable president. Here is the opportunity to support agriculture in the country by concealing farmers from the forestry industry instead of the development of forestry agriculture. Is it not fitting that the fishing industry does what it best to do, catching fish, and farmers care for the agriculture and forestry they do better than what they do? It's also possible that small-involved teamwork might be useful to both partners. I see there the perfect opportunity for the breakthrough cooperation of development and farmers and for the use of old words to make new meanings; the scattered build up forests. A respectable president. Filtering and other companies have gone into electricalization of fish factorys and have installed electrical contact equipment for fishing vessels that are more efficient and reduce oil use. However, all these efforts to use electricity and to be responsible for climate change are stopped by the General Assembly, which prevents the transfer of electricity and power depletion only contribute to the use of oil. Today, all the benefits of the government's billions of donations are being made so that the electricity of the car fleet disappears these days into the atmosphere by the use of oil smoke. A respectable president. Isn't it time to declare an emergency in the inactivity of the electrical transport system and meet energy exchange with greater electricity production?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u5	V.E.G. President. Today, I want to talk about communication in rural areas. Now, a fiber - optic cable has been placed in rural areas throughout a great country, and during the last term, a great deal of work was put into Iceland's project light - related. That project was about better connected with rural areas, and it was a major project and strategy. V.E.G. Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, put a lot of work into this. This has now been replaced by a new Ministry of Justice, and it is important that new communications ministers, the highest. Secretary of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, special contact with rural communications. When the fiber - optic cable was fixed, copper wire was cut, and this has resulted in some lack of phone communication. A telephone relationship is an important safety factor that is very important in daily life. To emphasize my case, I will take the Valley Hill as an example. Today, members of the Northwestern district were e - mailed about the status of telecommunications in the community. I know quite well myself, since I have lived in the region of Dala, where many homes in the rural area have little or no telephone service. This means that parents or guardians cannot be contacted if something comes up with children in school. That means if anything happens, it's not possible for residents to call for help. A prospective parent must leave home many days before he is born because he cannot rely on getting to the receiver and the people do not have a chance to use e - mails at home because the login request has finally expired when she arrives on the phone. The people receive the message that telecommunications are too costly to improve cell phones in small areas. They're all over the country. It's important to go to the maping of this, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's important. Secretary of communications to improve the security of the scattered population.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u6	A respectable president. Price insurance is human work, not natural, though it seems to act that way. When she was settled in this country, an emergency was involved. It was to ensure the savings of the population, loans, and salary. The problem was not free, and the problem grew. But now we're in another place and at another time. The shoe is being made to make the inflation shot now the government is to blame. There is talk of mismanagement and indiscretion. While the United States is in the media, without looking at what is happening to us in the countries around us, they still call for an increase in government spending. A respectable president. No, insurance isn't an inaccessible mountain. You see, we can affect the course of things. Reevaluation and calculating of inflation and insurance are essential. It has been called upon repeatedly by the government to place the index price for insurance below to be calculated without housing. Real value is a factor in the consumption of consumers in this country, and as a result, fliers and scalps of prices have been higher than in neighboring countries using a consistent index of consumer prices. Sadly, the daring dance that has taken place at the national housing market has produced inflation and has grown. Our neighbors use a different basis for calculating inflation, and since housing markets are small and easily moved, we need to make a conscious examination of the time to overlook them. A respectable president. Now that we are ours, we must look to the sun. Governments have made progress in promoting economic counter measures to reduce the economic effects produced by the pandemic. We've reached a third-thirty operation. Now we need to look more closely to families in the country. Let's get the indexing staff off the grid.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u7	A respectable president. Once again, I use my situation here to remind young people of the pandemic. After last week's lifts were reported, the high school students heard loud noises of dissatisfaction. The president of the Ministry of the Future told students that they were shocked by the new rules on 50 people's meeting restrictions. Clearly, the important interests of a proper social life have not been in the minds of governments. And I'm here to join them. Thank you for sticking with the material. Decisions on entertainment have certainly not been taken with young people in mind unless it is necessary to prevent them from doing so. However, a number of ways have been used to prevent some cultural events from occurring: the entertainment of older generations. Is two years of college beds just a small sacrifice to make? Two years of wearing masks in class and having limited contact and association with students? I don't think so. And those who claim otherwise do well to wonder whether their existence might be based on the fact that their ancestors could at one time have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u8	Madam President. I wondered, " How does the government provide for the better talks that will happen in the fall? ' In fact, each household is an economy where pay is needed for food, clothing, and shelter. The cost of living has already increased by tens of thousands, especially to those renting. In many homes, even most people, there is no room for such elevations. So, like a company, they need to raise their fee. Already there are many examples of some 30,000 K. increase in rent time over several months. To improve this, labor leaders have to negotiate at least 50,000 bucks. increase in pay. Is there any way for the government to sign such raises, or is it about to begin the old song on moderation and responsible demands? But what about moderation and the responsibilities of those in charge? Where is e.g. the increase in interest and payment of the banks? Where is the responsibility of governments that sacrifice households for economic growth? The biographer agreements negotiated the removal of the index team. Yes, that operation was postponed, but it was not decomposed. Without the index card, we would be watching, not 5.7% of inflation, but 3.7%. Taking him out of the picture would remember everything for homes the way the situation is today. Why is this not done? Homes, like companies, need to increase their income as their living expenses increase. This knows labor leaders, and it won't yield in the fall. It will not be possible to face the people who live by social demands of moderation or talk about the failure of the economy to meet these pay requirements. What the people will face is that their home does not depend on all the increases they may have experienced. It will therefore want, just as the companies usually enjoy understanding, raise their prices, and blame anyone who wants to. The government has this in its hand. What she does now will make a difference in the fall. What is she going to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u9	Madam President. Research suggests that last year's situation of immigrants has deteriorated significantly and is far worse than that of the natives. Yet, these are the people who have brought about economic growth in recent years and, of course, a growing society of other colors with their experience, knowledge, and culture. These people simply make our lives much better. The Economic Standards report that production is 13% higher in 2025 than it was 2021, but families have fewer children, and we increase more slowly than before. We cannot control this without all these good people. We're talking about over 55,000 people here now and if we add those who come here temporarily, it's about 70,000 people in this country. However, immigrants do not share our roots and can easily choose not to come here or to live elsewhere. Now that the inflation is on high ground and housing loan takes a leap and the food panorama becomes more expensive, we are in a very delicate position. You see, we need more hands, especially if our hopes are set down, for example. ... theexportationofthe sum of summer tourism. Therefore, I encourage the government to take special care of this group, to analyze his position accurately, and to meet him with appropriate measures. Of course, this is primarily a matter of morality, but it is also a matter of economic necessity for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u10	A respectable president. Reykjavík's district acquiesced health insurance and the State's demand for a woman who demanded 1,200 of you. K. with torso growth, as well as expenses for performing surgery only at the clinical level of the millennium. She can have three more expensive operations abroad but could not be achieved by Covid-19. Her attorney says this is a violation of the Constitution's rights law. This morning's paper also shows that health insurance agrees that the woman could seek treatment within the EEA and not from the European Union of the Year's Council because of the non-contraction agreement on their therapy. It will be noted that the inhabitants of other countries of the European Economic Area seem to enjoy a better place in this country than citizens of the United States. They can come here and have an operation in the clinical district and get it paid for their public health insurance and not for Icelandic citizens. They're good enough to fix and help at the Country Hospital for Covid-19, and with the government's approval, but they are not welcome to bring an end to economic, mental, and physical torture in the afflicted and illly ill. No, the only thing available to the government is that these people break a strong painkiller, i.e. opioids that do so even for life. In order to suppress 15-520 tablets per day on the waiting list for surgery for months or years, with two to three tablets due to an adverse reaction of analgesics being the worst type of violence. I know of my own experience, which is an incredibly brutal punishment for only injury or illness, and much less when it has families and children. And people who have full-time jobs are falling off the job market. Human rights, equality, and equality are trampled on in this case, and the government must immediately stop this violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u11	A respectable president. It is difficult to live in an economy with a microchip in your wallet. The mood swings, growth changes, and the tightrope dance between them are neither rhythmic nor very entertaining, let alone friendly toward our people and our companies. Most of the inflation bites us, but in fact, it's a mistake. It bites people who have less than one hand between them. The majority of Icelanders are busy trying to survive every month and do not have much time to think about the events to the end. Thus, they rely on governments to make decisions and keep the ball steady, whether it is young people who are moving toward their destination and who decide whether to choose insure or securable loans, fast growth, or not, older people who are striving to make life savings, security. Thus, the responsibility of the government is great. The government hasn't exactly practiced responsible economic government when it comes to this, and it has not wanted to look to the future at all. Long before the pandemic, there were also signs of red warnings in the economic maps. In many respects, much of the inflation that now faces is at home. I'm not talking about the entire state fund long before Covid, all of this contributes to the inflation. Having a roof over his head is one of the biggest cashiers in the world. The burden of payment is different from that of a community. I'd like to shed some light on student status. A recent report on students in a housing market was published by the Board of Students. That's where we even came from. found that some 15% of the Icelandic students live in student parks and parks are long. Rest is on the market, but the education fund is borrowing that students are renting in student parks, a considerable from public market rent. So the criteria are crooked. Some 43% of students live under burdensome housing expenses. The inflation will bite this group hard, very hard. This stage, a respected president, is a way of reaching all of us the level of learning access, so it is important to respond to students'pleas about conversation with them on terms and circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u12	Madam President. The results of Socialism were published on January 25 of the National Association of Iceland, on behalf of Iceland's Flights Associations, on behalf of the Association of Tourists and Icelanders ehf. The jury was in favor of the stewardess society. In the defense of the Illeland Association for the sake of the economy, a re-election was justified by our proposal to appear in the United States on the law that the age line should be re-edited. By making the suggestion, the government sent a message to those companies who used their support to inform people that it would be acceptable to violate the rights of reimbursement. It's important to do what you want. The senators saw the consequences of this. They should demand, as I do, that the government shoulder responsibility and make sure the perpetrated staff gets damage. Icelanders were not the only company that was supported in breaking up the government's resources. There were others. The financial support that was paid from the state's budget included over 12 billion dollars. The options were intended to prevent bankruptcy, not to give companies the opportunity to break staff. I've requested the Minister to answer questions, including... how it was monitored by the government that enterprises that received this support will have conditions for support under the law and how to follow up with it and how the government will react if there is not a law-by-law. Socialization has fallen, and the stewardess Society has won. But what happens next? How will those who have been wronged become victims? Hv. Government officials need to examine themselves, and they also insist that the government shoulder responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u13	Madam President. It's become a masquerade. The government seems to be completely lost on the big business. Ministers often do not know what role they play, even what the Ministry is called. The day before, the government seems to swing from day to day depending on what was in the news, depending on where the pressure is greatest. No vision, no direction, no foreseement. Energy issues were suddenly discovered on the part of the government this week, apparently, that it would require energy after the news. This is the government that has been standing in the way of all the energy since its birth, not doing anything with a frame plan, and now we recently saw that a structured program is set up, or it stands to return it on the last day the government is allowed to bring in cases at this council. In other words, this case is to be put to sleep one more time. Talk about energy. This government was pleased when a temporary situation in Norwegian politics caused Norwegians to withdraw from oil and gas in Icelandic jurisdiction. The Norwegians have now reported 53 new licences in their own jurisdiction. The Icelandic government is going to ban so much as a search for these valuable and important resources. Ban investigation, ban investigation, Madam President. The inflation. What will the government do to cope with the predictable trend in terms of prices? Probably nothing unless it is forced to do so. The group continues to grow at the same time. Yes, it is now suddenly talking about taking the possibly housing team out of the price balance point, something that this same government has been resisting since its beginning when the members of the Central Party, the labor movement, and others have proposed it. [[The president calls.]] The city of Reykjavík seems to be in charge of transportation. And so on, Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I only have two minutes, but the main thing is, if the council doesn't intervene under these circumstances, then the Senate is responsible for the development. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u14	Hv. Congress officials are admonished to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u15	President. A new study of the status of pay workers in Iceland placed before partners in ASI and BSRB shows that about a quarter of the employees find it difficult to make ends meet. A quarter of women in a job market have poor mental health. A fifth of the payers cannot meet unexpected expenses. The economic situation of the unemployed is worse than the labor of wage people and the status of immigrants is worse than those of the natives on all scales. President. Now following a pandemic crown virus and its social limitations as a result of the epidemic, there is a period of intense expansion and inflation, both on land and on a global scale. Economic pressures indicate that the most advanced groups will gain greater weight and will squeeze into their living conditions. The rent price is rising, the food car is rising, the gas is turning up. Now we must take immediate action to prevent any growing problems into the future that will cost us dearly, not just in money, but in a human tragedy that echoes through the next generations. Now as never before, it is important that the government is very clear about its intentions. What will she do to protect the interests of homes and families? There is no need for any action on that town, and when a social and workforce minister is asked what action he will take, he is unable to perform it because the main problems of the labour market are not heard. President. What was the point of making a special labour service minister if he could do nothing for the hired people in the country? Was it perhaps, like so many things with this government, just up on the punt? I sincerely ask, President, because the situation is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u16	Madam President. I'm happy to hear that a press conference of planned tenders in Axar Road cooperation will be held on Friday. The challenges of rural and home management at the Mulla Council are remarkable. A second and worse matter is that during the long time that has taken place, and the long time that will take place in the process itself, winter services have not been carried out as they should. The Axe Road falls under a so-called G rule that, by permission of President, it is permitted to shovel two days a week in the fall and the spring during snow. The condition is defined as a low level of snow, and a condition with a condition is not considered to be impossible, heavy, or exercise at the time of the service procedure only in the cleaning of a raceway with a snowshaft. Farmers have repeatedly shown that many times and times it is hard to see that the way is not kept open. It is a route within a community where residents must attend a service and a store between an apartment core. The inhabitants of Deepvogur are made driving through another rural society and extending their trip by ten miles [10 km]. It's a safety issue. This is equal. This is unacceptable, Madam President, and it is clear to take immediate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u17	Madam President. Today, the newsletter reads an open letter to the highest level. Minister of Justice from 13 organizations fighting for the human rights and rights of women. There the minister is challenged to improve the place of sexually abused sex in the justice system by administering the members of judicial cases that are now being taken from the State on their behalf. You see, the people are evicted from court in their own trial. The letter says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Studies show that the spiritual consequences of sexual abuse are usually far more chronic than physical injuries, which usually heal quickly. In this regard, the deity and the subsidiary are weighed heavily, but in order to use sexual abuse, the person must be drawn down to satisfy his passions, instead of a person with rights and voice. It may be reasoned that by present laws the legal system continues to hold on to this dehumanity and subsidiary, where violations have neither right nor voice equal to the defendant in their own case. [...] Thus, the justice system can maintain the balance of power between the defendant and the violation of violence itself. For good reason, judicial cases alone may cause traumatic stress in the face of wrongdoing, or they may deepen their existing spiritual injuries. Madam President. I would like to use this opportunity to agree with each word in this letter and also use the opportunity to lower the highest. President to what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson has submitted a written petition to the Minister of Justice on the rights of those who may soon be answered. If the initiative is not to be taken from the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. President, the U.S. Congress must come together to remedy this arrangement, and I challenge the members of Congress to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u18	A respectable president. I'm here again to beg the President to assist the Council in protecting the respect of the council. I've been here repeatedly in the last few days, pointing out that the government is deliberately denying the Council the data necessary to handle its legal duties in the payment of citizens' rights directed to the General Assembly. All of the General and Education Committee of the Parliament sent a consistent claim to the government for a year's release of their data and processing. V.E.G. The prime minister has declared his will to help with this matter, as well as others. The situation is that since a request was sent from the council, on the basis of the General Assembly, nothing has happened. I don't think I've done anything. It has not won one single application for weeks after asking for these applications to be completed. She continues to offer suggestions on how the work should be done, depending on her head. [[The president calls.]] Nothing's happened. So I'm asking you one more trip, and I'm begging the President to help us in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u19	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to say the word, OK? paritaprevir Athosi Anna Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir. Of course, it is shameful that a minister of justice grants the failure of a government agency to provide the information and evidence that the Council is entitled to receive. It is quite remarkable that this is still going on after all the statements that have shown that this is not acceptable. After all the statements that have been made that there is something to do with this, the situation is still like this today. I also want to be paid by the head of the Economic and Business Committee to point out that people have been charged, the Foreign Institute has been paid by people for their winning applications that are so just not working. What the hell is that song? This, I believe, is an occasion to consult a financial and business committee. How can a government agency pay for an unsupervised service? This will be considered on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u20	Madam President. I agree with the two who spoke before me. This is more tragic because the committee has almost one mind on this subject. This requirement does not depend on some political lines, and it appears there is someone, a minister or the agency, trying to force the Council to change the law on this distribution. It may well be time to revise it all, but it's totally independent of what we're talking about here today. We're supposed to have these files, and we need them. That must be an issue of interest. The president would not let this program be subject to the requirement of day after day, week after week, without responding. I know it's not always the same president on the seat, but they must talk on the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u21	A respectable president. I have to come up here and agree with what's being said here. I haven't done much of it over the years to be reading law. I've tried to follow traffic laws and to behave decently. But I decided that after a discussion at the council Hall the other day, I looked up in the law on the granting of citizens' rights, and it says, by permission of the president, in 6. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A General Assembly is legally entitled to civil rights. Before an application for citizenship is submitted to the General Assembly, the U.S. National Institute shall have the authority to give it to the chief of police at the applicant's resting place. Furthermore, the Foreign Institute shall give a review of the application. It's very clear. Then comes the highest. Minister merely misinformed in a newspaper article on creating some privileged order here at the General Assembly. But the law is being violated, and I ask: What is done with lawbreakers? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u22	A respectable president. I must admit that I am very sorry that this discussion was repeated in a discussion about the President's conference board. Of course, this has nothing to do with the President's conference board. But it's perfectly clear that we're in the middle of a problem with the General and Education Committee because of the law of Civil Rights. There's something mixed up in the discussion, both here at the Senate Hall and perhaps even less in the community, these two separate issues on the part of which we have a change of mind and thought. Most of us agree on the need to change the arrangement and the Ministry and the Foreign Institutes in recent years have been taking decisive action with the Committee, without any decision made by the committee. This is so twofold that in December, the Committee booked a delay for the Foreign Institute of Iceland for January to hand out applications to the council received before October 1 and to review them. We remember and, of course, we're looking for a way around the Foreign Institute to get it out. The link phase is the time it takes the Agency to review these applications and that they have decided to change the procedure in order to cover applications in chronological order. [[The president calls.]] I realize that, a respectable president, and I'm sorry, it's a bit complicated to try to discuss this in some sort of rush in the President's conference board. [[The president calls.]] The Board of Staff and Education Committee has the case. They found today, they'll meet again tomorrow or the next few days, and I expect this case to be resolved completely in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u23	Madam President. In view of the word "woe." paritaprevir And if Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir, I thank you for the explanation. I'm gonna let her disagree on two basics. It's not complicated, it's just about that this is about doing the work of the Generals, and it's got a lot to do with the President's conference board because it's about the tools and tools we have in order to meet our legitimate demands that the law be carried out. There is an even greater demand on the executives of the Commission, especially in the case of a minister who is also a senator. There's nothing complicated about this, but I'm going to wish. The General and Education Committee is successful in solving the case on behalf of the Generals. But here is the discussion at home until the situation is resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u24	A respectable president. This is the fourth or fifth discussion at the Council. I'd like to point out an article after the highest. Last January, the Minister of Ministers of the Isthmus, the Court of Civil Citizens and the General Assembly, appeared in Science.is 26th. I haven't read in my life from the Republic's Minister. I have to say right now. Let me tell you why. The U.S. Minister of Justice does not understand the difference between politics and the case for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. He doesn't understand the difference. He does not understand the difference between preparing a case for a administrative decision at the National Institute of Iceland and preparing a case for legal action at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. People are legally granted citizenship at the Allied Congress of Iceland. They should be prepared by the National Institute of Foreign Affairs by providing information on applications sent to the Generals and by paying a considerable amount of money. This is the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister to coddle in an article in Science, which I encourage all to read, he even speaks. of VIP therapy for the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] And because it's going so badly, the speed at the Foreign Institute is not great enough, it's going to have to take a bite on this facility here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u25	A respectable president. I had to come back up for a word. The head of the General and Education Committee, who spoke of a riot here under the President's conference board and that this was not the right spot for it. I have to state to my point that I feel that members of Congress have been rather well-dressed here in the President's conference board in view of the seriousness of the case discussed here. We're talking about a minister in the government of Iceland who's applying instructions to his subcommittee on breaking the law. This is about the Minister's duty, a respectable president. This is a serious matter. The fact that we come up here repeatedly and desire to be made by a president is that the President disbarred a minister to follow the law and to stop violating his ministerial responsibility, I think I'm just a rather responsible way. There are other and more extreme ways of dealing with lawbreakers. But here we are, wishing that the senators and presidents will carry the government order of Iceland, hold a law to be a minister of responsibility and to respect the Council and its role in citizens' rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The head of the General and Education Committee for coming up here and sticking up with us and showing that this is a parapolitic case. It's about the respect of the Generals and their role. But I'm going to agree with others who have come up here and say, "It's not complicated, it's not complicated, there's no complications. There is nothing complicated with our discussion with the Foreign Institute or Minister. This is about their handing us the data we've already asked them to deliver. It's very simple. Then I'd like to correct what appears to be going on. I don't know what field it's going to be, at the Foreign Institute, that it's about their work load. It won't. This is stated in a very clear statement, the official declaration of the Supreme Court. Minister, the reasons for these things. That's because they're not going to deliver the data. It's not because they have so much to do. Then I just want to call attention to the fact that it's been weeks since we've been asking for these data, and the National Institute of Iceland said, "Okay, we're doing it. Nothing's happened. The U.S. Foreign Office is to request information about each of these applications by the police, or e-mails, sent. [[The president calls.]] He hasn't been sent, nothing's happened. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to do with the workload at the Foreign Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u27	President. I have to agree with the speech here. I am very sorry that two discussions are being brought together, on the one hand, that the situation is unacceptable in the Foreign Institute for Work, that the work organization is not working out. I think all members of the Committee understand, respect it, and are ready to start working to change the arrangement. However, we cannot do this to people who have been applying and who have paid for it on the basis of the Agency's website to change the course in the middle. We have to cancel these applications. It's just a simple matter. We are calling for data that should be given by law. As we have seen, there is no complication level. All you have to do is finish this thing. In the meantime, people are waiting for uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u28	A respectable president. I just want to point out that in the article I referred to before the accused. Council Minister of Justice to handle a false case. I would like a minister to know where we were wrong. Where was it? I'd like to take care of another matter here, which is that Ministers and Foreign Institutes are here in politics. They want to change the arrangement, as discussed earlier. It's not their job. It's Generalis's job to change the arrangement. The present system is a double system in which civil rights are granted at the International Assembly of Iceland by law and by the Foreign Institute of Government. This is the Minister's attempt to destroy the current system, i.e. The treatment for the General. That's what he's trying to do, and that's all he's trying to do. He's in politics. It's hard to believe that a minister in the Iceland government, supported by the Parliamentary sector, should act this way, completely indistinguishable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u29	President. I'd like to agree with the last speaker. I've been afraid it's just trying to destroy this double system that's so important because it's about the basic rights of people, the citizenship. We set a law on a number of things that must be fulfilled in order to obtain the most important rights. It's just impossible to enumerate every possible situation that prevents such. People can get traffic tickets, and then they can only fit in a box, and their application is rejected. Some of these details are difficult to predict. Therefore, this double way, to be sure, is to be done on reasonable grounds, i.e. that people who can't get through a needle's eye at the National Institute of Iceland can propose to the agency that makes the law and asks: Are you sure you meant it was something like this that would prevent me from getting a citizen's rights? We need to have such a double system, for this is on very sensitive terms - human rights, citizenship - and you can't buy all the possibilities from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u30	A respectable president. We came up here day after day to point out that a minister is breaking the law. A minister is breaking the law. There's no disrespect for the Generals. Either one needs the highest. Minister to comply with law or supremely with law. Minister has to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u31	Madam President. I'm just coming up here to correct what has been said about the needleeye of the Foreign Institute. It is clearly in the law what it takes to get a citizen's right to rule. It's not the eye of the needle, it's just clearly defined what it is. If we want to change it, we'll change it by law. It's the same thing here. If a minister wants to change the fact that the Council should legalize citizens, then the law needs to be adjusted. We just have to do the law. There may not be. We must obey the law, and we must give the Allied the opportunity to enforce the law. I reiterate what I've said before, "I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you before. The General and Education Committee to now post ads in the press and to describe the applications that have already been received and that the applicants who sent their applications submit them directly to the Generals, because this is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u32	Madam President. It is true that it appears that the Council is under no obligation to give civil rights. It's a warrant. There are no deadlines either. We can therefore decide to give it once a year or once a month. But I'm coming up here, Madam President, to see that the Subcommittee found today and will expect to meet tomorrow. I hope this case is working out, and we can start this job, so it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u33	President. This case will only be solved if the council gets all the evidence. It's the right of people to apply for this to the Generals. And from what the head of the Subcommittee was saying, should the Council simply ignore it? We get lots of reviews here, no, we're just not gonna do it. - Of course it doesn't work that way. People have the right to apply for citizenship to the Generals and then, at the General Assembly, to handle it, of course, in a financial way. And that's what these data need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u34	A respectable president. Here we are taking care of a case that is directly due to the fact that the council was placed in way too much time pressure. We're here, even. correcting a bill that had to be done in one day because of the government's delay, and we're also fixing mistakes that happened because the bandworm before Christmas and the budget had far too little time and space in the council. We support two of these corrections, of course, but we oppose one of them as regards the reduction of the cost of house transport disposal. But we will be embarrassed in the whole case because of these reactions, due to a delay in the government, protesting these tactics, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u35	Madam President. This is a preliminary directive to use an out - of - date method for measuring carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles. This law was set in by a financial and business committee at its time after a request from the tourism Association, not to be written down, and not to suggest whether the estimated increase in cars after the new method may have been due to the obvious reason, that they simply released too much carbon dioxide. It is now suggested to reinvent the predestination of an unsurpassed request from a stakeholder. Never has there been an impact on government funds or an impact on the environment. It is irresponsible to allow cars to be sold out from out - of - date emissions at the same time as climate crisis conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u36	President. The background behind this waiver lies in the cheating of a car manufacturer. So the pollution standards were the way they were, and the car manufacturer, Volkswagen, cheated on the test by putting a microchip in all cars who reported whether the car was doing carbon dioxide tests and made the machine walk differently if the test was running, leading to lower measurements. That's what we're paying votes to extend if people say yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u37	Madam President. We in the United States will vote with this bill, but I'm on the committee opinion in advance. The warning indicates that this bill was composed in a hurry, and when it is done, of course, it is very likely that there will be some mistake, even if we do not see it now. There's something important to gain, and that's why we're in agreement with the law, but that's what I did with the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u38	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of committees with a change of motion on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. The bill is a part of government action because of the economic consequences of a pandemic crown virus. The bill suggests that direct funding for restaurants, accommodations, and dance places must be paid. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of delegates from various sources. Drivers who have been in the conversation with the committee have all as one of them expressed a lot of concern about their business and a lot of uncertainty. The committee's review included a few things that the committee stopped to think would require correction or adjustment. One of the opinions turned to temporary licenses followed by some operators, which began prior to December 1, 2021. The Commission requested the Ministry's position on the above - mentioned applications, and it said that the Ministry considers that a person's driver's license is considered temporary. The majority agree with the government's opinion of the above mentioned persons and aims to lay the basis for the above interpretations. The review of the Committee concluded that it might provide a better picture of the need for less drivers with fewer standards to set maximum percentages of fixed costs. The committee requested that the Ministry give the Commission their position on the proposal of this material. The Ministry's memo shows that such approach would include a substantial change from the implementation of the income-and-questioning sector which could be involved and would probably delay the survival of the resource. In addition, the writer's review shows that there will be some time between the agreed bill and until the operators can apply for strength. As a result of the above, significant changes in the quality of the experience will likely delay its implementation. The majority consider the limited benefits resulting from such changes not justify the increased misunderstanding levels and possible delays in its success. More part of the Economic and Business Committee makes the following changes to the bill. At first, I'd like to mention the delimitation of the concept of ◯Environment, but the bill holds that funding applies to the operator who operates restaurants in Class II and III. In a discussion of history with the first man and woman. for the bill it was said that it would be appropriate to clear the standard range of the bill so that a definition of restaurants would be extended to restaurant drivers on the grounds of a rooming permit or, in particular, a particular class IV restaurant. This was also done in the bill on the continuation of public pay. The majority agree with the above change and make it a time. According to the bill on the driver's right to the state funds for each calendar month from December 2021 through March 2022. The reviews indicated that the first of November 2021 disease prevention measures were intensified and that they should be strengthened to reach that month. In this regard, the greater part points out that the restriction of Christian meetings went into effect in mid - November 2021. With the reference to the above, the majority of the items suggest a change to allow for strength to be applied on the basis of November 2021. The Committee reviewed the intake of restaurants that began after the start of a pandemic crown virus, which includes the general range of revenues in terms of a period when restaurants had limited incomes for preventing preventative measures. According to the Ministry's memo, the directive does not rule out the Ministry's assessment that a driver started a restaurant after the start of that month of the calendar in 2019 would aim for the payoff period from the period when he received a license in place of the whole season if he could argue that it would give a better picture of his earnings all the way. A reasonable argument may recommend making it a default instead of making a operator demonstrate that this period provides a better picture of his income than of his income from the start of the business. The majority agree with the view that in the case of the operators who have received a license for restaurants after the start of the same calendar month and a review in 2019, their takeover at the restaurant should take place as many days as it is in the Almanach month, which covers the period between September 1, 2021 and November 30, 2021 or on the day of his leave to November 30, 2021. At the contributions of the bill, extension of the application deadline was not expected to be based on financial support to the less operators. The Committee has discussed a bill to correct the change in financial support or maintenance laws, as well as a minister's declaration of maintenance of boxing. The majority of the data shows that the operator has not been expected to enjoy the full closing capacity, maintenance and support using the bill due to the same period as the same procedure, for example. suggest in the above bill to correct the change in financial support law to the less operator that if the operator has been determined strength according to the bill for the same period as the closing period, this strength will be reduced from the final concentration. It is therefore that applying for a final concentration above the strength given the bill would provide two different sources of strength. Thus, the majority suggest that if the operator was determined to be animated proprietary strength according to the penalty laws because of the calendar month for which application is relevant or closed by the law on financial support, he is withdrawn from the force under these laws. With the reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes listed above. At this committee stand Hafsteinsdóttir Haursteinsdóttir, Ágúst Garðarsson, Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdotir, Guðbrandur Einarsson, Shernín Hörnsteindótir, Jóhann Jóhannsson, and Orri Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u39	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir for the Commission opinion. Of course, it would be the wisest thing to do if the government stopped this limited operation on restaurants, but I guess that doesn't mean much to deal with it. A senator at the moment. In this hall, there is often criticism of the term. We've got a lot of things going together, and here's an opinion, with a bill for a bill on strength to the operator. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee whether this is really not a cover-up, since improvements and funding are each factor. Of course, this situation has come about by government action. In fact, a secretary of finance who puts forth this matter under discussion has expressed the firm view that the legal leaders of these actions are, if not, smile at breaking. I'd like to get a point of view. The head of the Economic and Business Commission and the head of the Commission on this issue, since everything currently under way is under way because of the decisions of the same government that now come and claim to be giving them the same countries strength. Isn't this just reform?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u40	I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason very much for this inquiry. I can totally share his opinion here. There may be differences of opinion, and there may also be big differences between compensations or strengths. I think all the members of the Economic and Business Committee have been in serious contact with the operators all over the country, and I don't think any of them want to be on any kind of charity from the state, not any man. I don't think people want to be strong too. But then I also ask, " Does anyone want to be a reformer? ' Of course, this bill is presented to improve the damage to the operators because of the decisions they have been made here in the name of the Center for Disease Control. I think it's a flight to other measures and to other primes that have been submitted here during the two years of this situation and that there's a word of strength here simply in line with previous action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u41	Madam President. Thank you. The president's answer. Of course, most people do not want to be reformers, but when companies are put in a position not to sell products to those who want to do their business, they don't get to use their assets and time to make money, they are now turning around. In addition to this particular point, I would like to ask you a question about a aspect of this business that concerns troubled companies, has been misdeserved by public fees, or has failed to live up to previous contracts made with the tax. Like what? Investigated by them, the members of the committee have probably heard from the executives, and so have I, and so have I. I have heard descriptions to communicate with the tax on the grounds that either previous plans have not fully completed or are referred to as a failure, and therefore enterprises are not considered to be falling under these automatic means. Were there some aspects of the committee that depend on these solutions that do not enjoy them, in any case not automatically, if so, on the basis of the abuse that has existed during the period of the epidemic? Of course, management and company are as diverse as there are many, and there may be a wide variety of explanations for the reason why companies get into temporary divorces. The question, though, is: Was this examined? How many companies have so far been falling on this automatic consent due to misapplied public fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u42	President. It is clear that those who have had to postpone pay pay are not taken lightly. It is essential for negotiations to be in the company, but those who have had to postpone their expenses and have agreed on them may apply for these measures. The committee did not specifically consider how many people have fallen among them, but I believe they are very few. At any rate, the resources have been considered to catch a large part of the applications. It is also very enjoyable that in all the conversations we've had, as much as I can use that word, in people, operators, with the resources that have been taken up to this point, and the vast majority said that if these sponsors had not been used, we would have seen here a mass failure of companies in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u43	Madam President. I can't resist after this discussion here. It may be noted that for individuals, I find no shame in accepting government benefits and no shame in a business to accept support or compensation or what we call it from the state. The private sector is and will be dependent on the State for a number of extremes, e.g. for the protection of the possession rights, for the construction of infrastructure, on good competitive and regulations, on the education of employees. It's all made up of a bit of the government, so maybe we're all one another's reformers, so to speak. Of course, this epidemic has made public decisions on the level of employment. Like what? A senator earlier said that if the State had not stepped very tightly into many parts of the Western world, we would have seen many financial failures and totally overexploited destruction. But because you're here in a pit, I'm gonna ask you something. Seven. the bill shows that the tax will cancel an application as soon as possible and no later than two months after it receives an adequate application. I just wanted to ask you what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee whether it agrees with me that now it is very, very, very important that the Ministry and the IRS do everything they can to handle and establish this application procedure as soon as possible and to provide this strength much faster than any mention in this provision, that, when it is spoken of as two months, it is just for some absolute exception. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does she not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the question. I wholeheartedly agree with him that these matters need to be rushed very fast. When we're talking there about two months, we're talking about a maximum of two months. I am convinced that the tax and the person involved will work hard to speed up the funding of these funding, as much as possible, because we know that the need is urgent to get these sponsors out to the operators. I'd so much like to add to the inquiry as Bergþór Ólason, 8th. Witchest. " It was directed to the chairman of the committee earlier that we had considered how many people have received a revelation. I'd like to inform you about the closing strength, which is actually a different option, but there have been over 2,000 applications, of which 97 persons who did not receive the desired strength. You may be able to take a little into account their numbers and apply them to these resources, so we can see that there is a huge number of companies that are strong and very small that are denied.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u45	A respectable president. I thank you for your clear answers and for the fact that we agree on this aspect. I think it's very important, especially in view of the lateness of this bill, that it will be shown, as it has just happened, a very clear message from the legislatator that the execution of the vacancy should be done all the ways to resolve applications rapidly and safely. Something similar about the project that I wanted to bring up. In Comb 4. The terms of granting of granting specifically show the period in which special circumstances may be used as a secondary reference period demonstrate to the operator that it provides a better picture of his income loss than the reference period according to the 1st and 2 paragraphs. I want to ask you why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee whether it agrees with me that this is a rather large paragraph that should be interpreted, that it is very important to consider the specific circumstances and the actions of these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u46	A respectable president. As noted then, the Commission made changes during this reference period because we also thought that it was necessary to deal with the problems of the operators who are new, with a new business, and that the loss of their company would show a fairly realistic picture. Hence, last year's fall months saw the potential for these operators to live under great limitations. Also, the loss of income has been dropped to 20%, which I believe is also of great importance. The range of vectors is no more than that of the law. I believe that the Committee has tried on every occasion to respond to the reports that were observed by the operators to be more flexible by moving to this reference period. I think that's a lot of the good stuff.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u47	Madam President. I believe this bill has made a very important change in the financial and business committees. I thank the committees for their good cooperation, and I'd also like to thank their managers, people, businesses and interests for their part in making the bill better than it was when it first came into the council. Of course, this matter of Congress includes only a large part of the business, which is a food trade. Then, a discussion of the wood - shop program, which is finally presented, will be followed. There you need to be very careful about playing with the bill we are discussing here today. I think it would be indiscriminate to make it fast, or to make it especially expected that this bill will be some kind of endpoint when it comes to supporting this sector. In itself, we do not know how the virus epidemic will develop, and we need to remain very alert to the situation of the enterprises that have been exposed to most of the virus and because of the cross-infection restrictions. It's a lot for the operators in private responsibility for their debts, these are companies in which all of them are generally put in employees and hold on to recruitment relationships, and I think we have to be honest with them that for many of these companies the maximum strength that the bill holds is high. The bill came into Congress on January 17, I believe it was, but 1st was taken up. of January 20. Then there were two main points that I called attention to and called for a response. First, I pointed out that November had been a very bad month for a number of companies in this article, which could give us reasons to expand even the duration of the restaurants. Second, I identified a certain imbalance in treatment between the enterprises that were formed before the pandemic and the restaurants that opened just before or just after we met the virus. According to the bill, as it was when it arrived at the council, the first group had the right to be strong if income in that month was 20% lower than income in the same Almanak month of 2019, than the second company group was expected to have a control period in which intense disease prevention measures were all equal to people. I pointed out that this was unfair, and I put a group of restaurants in a pitiless competitive position. To my delight, this aspect of the bill was met by a very broad agreement within the Economic and Business Committee. Hv. The head of the Committee naturally reviewed the procedure just earlier, on the one hand it was decided to enable the operators to apply for strength on November 2021, and it was decided to meet places established after 2019 with a new reference period in the evaluation of income losses. That's what I'm talking about. The manager was talking about a minute ago. This is very important and means that in the case of the operators who have been given a permit for restaurants after the start of the same calendar month as for the application in 2019, it should generally be in accordance with his average revenue of the restaurant during the period of September 1 through November 30, 2001, or from the date when he received a license to 30 November 2021 if he received a license after September 1. The bill also allows for any room for the operator to actually use a different period for reference but the same calendar month in 2019 if it gives a better picture of the income crisis. What I was in there. The chairman of the committee mentioned earlier was whether it would be necessary for this space to be interpreted a little wide. I think it's very important and that there's a clear message from the council on that. It may not even be necessary, but at least I have heard of it in the treatment of the case within the committee, that it is the will of the Committee. This is important. In view of the changes I've been through here and the committee was united, I decided to have a greater share in this case and we in the United States support the bill as a whole. Of course, this does not mean that the methodology used in support of an enterprise is necessarily above criticism. I still think it would have been necessary to reinvent some of the previous measures earlier, e.g. in December. Then I am, for example. thinking about the part-change process, letting it reach a limited part of the economy. I think we have to be very aware that a temporary loss of income is not always a good measure of whether a business is in a business problem or not. So here it is being said that the way that has also taken place in the government's first resorts, into the income and pennies, to strengthen their companies, and only to have suffered such a loss of income over the same month of 2019, before the start of the Covid incident. The bill provides a grant of 90% of the maximum operating costs for each company, and so on by the number of standards. Of course, there are certain unfortunate incentives that can arise with this methodology. Let's think of two companies, company A and company B, and both companies get into business management disorders because of the virus and because of the cross-cutting restrictions. Companies A do all they can to hold on to employees and engage in major efforts to make more money in order to cover pay expenses. Companies B take the other way, pulls out the sails, shortens the opening time, lays down employees, and just puts the income a little bit ahead of time, and does not have any major revenues. The bill we have here is actually a company B, but in a sense, it punishes company A. I think we have to be very aware of this unfortunate impulse but also just to face that there is no one right way to support an enterprise in such a state. At this point and in this particular case, I think that the possible damage to this impulse that I was describing is less than the social benefit of supporting the operators who have suffered a massive loss of income due to circumstances beyond their control, both due to the virus itself and the limitations that, for example, have been affected by the circumstances. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance, as mentioned earlier, says that it crossed the bounds of the legal one. Which means that in his view, there has been an illegal decline in employment freedom. This, inevitably includes it. Then it is a capitalist's fault whether or not it will be treated as well as the damage it must have caused. Since the beginning of December and even before, the increase in the number of infectious and hydrogened preventative measures would be severe for certain areas of the economy. A report appeared on RUV's Web on December 10, where the headline was: Specific action continued to be provided for the food field. The story said it was the highest. Secretary of finance that it is now necessary to have quick hands to support this sector. The minister said, with the permission of the president: We can obviously watch, for example, a operator in the food trade sector who may not be able to have an opening. We're taking it out especially now. [...] Yes, we need to act quickly. That was December 10. What happened next? Yes, the General went home on Christmas holiday without introducing or agreeing to any proposed actions for this sector. Now I don't know if Mr. Halldór Benjamín Þorbergsson and I agree on a lot of things, but we wholeheartedly agreed on this in an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on January 10, that it would have taken way too long to deal with this crisis. However, I don't think that either of us would have thought that after weeks of time, it would be time for direct support to the operators who suffered the greatest blow in November, December, and January. It's just a fact. The economic and business committee has made it clear that even if this bill is approved today or tomorrow or the other, it is quite clear that there will be no support on the basis of it until some weeks. It will take time to install the digital application system and support to the highest degree. A financial minister expected the operators in December 10th, until perhaps after February or at some point in the beginning of March. Of course, we need to hope that loan agencies will take into account that this is a support that will eventually come. The company is entitled to it and has legitimate expectations of receiving it. This delay I'm talking about here and we've been reported in the Economic and Business Committees, including Because, in February, the IRS is performing legal tasks that deal with data and preparation for the pressures of public pay, but the Agency also has a full responsibility to implement other measures that the head of the management body decided to attack. One is all the resources the Ministry of finance was compelled to warn against extending. As has been well considered here at the council, cautionary advice from the Ministry points out that it is not merely an overstimulated evil economy but a total of work by canceling all these applications for reimbursement and heavy writing in this case. I'm going to read here from the Ministry of Economics and Business Committee memorandum of December 16, with permission of presidents: Some 100,000 applications have been received for reimbursement since March 2020. For example, on September 8, 2000, the IRS had supplied a total of 23,900 applications for auto repairs. and paid back VK for a total of 391 million bucks. On average, the reimbursement rate was less than 16,400 k. Whether the tax reimbursement of the tax reimbursement may be better spent on an IRS bill that is thought to be well received, such as. reviews of the per capita tax deduction of the business Yeah, it's maybe this kind of sidewind I was tempted to draw attention to. But what we may need to consider seriously about the project is the question: Is the tax strong enough? If so, I just mean if she has enough status values, has enough money, and has strong infrastructure and software to deal quickly with situations as necessary. It has been very tangible in the work of the Committee in the past few weeks that ideas about changes in the administrative network are met with warning signs that they will become so much more complicated, and the project will become even more delay. In this context, it may be noted that in a state accountant's review report of 2020, the state account of the cumulative technical debt of the state is specifically covered, that the information systems of state institutions have come to their years, have been run in an old technical environment, written on some prehuman programming issues, and all caused by this delay and burden in the activities of the State. So this is still happening, despite Digital Iceland and all that, today in 2022. There may be good reason to review thoroughly whether or not the ability to react strongly to the institutions responsible for the implementation of support tools for people and businesses and to learn from experience in dealing with a pandemic situation. For the past two years, we have been reminded very carefully that valuable things are a cooperation project between the private sector and the public. Neither can be. This is what we need to remember now as we continue to implement support measures for the pandemic and for the general economic situation. We need strong and flexible government and institutions that can be quickly activated to support people and businesses. I support the bill, and I also look forward to a discussion on the shoppers bill that has finally entered the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's talk is a big deal. I'd like to state that unfortunately, we'll never catch everyone. As much as we would like to contribute to the committee, we want to first and last care for the equality, and we want general resources that most of us can use and look for. Sadly, though, there will always be some who fall in between. I sure hope so, huh? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll, that we are going to see the end of this catastrophe and that we do not have to pay much of this kind of capital in this council, for rightly, like a dog, well. A senator said, "We want professional life to flourish and, of course, to interact with the government. " I'd like to mention here, as I mentioned in the committee's opinion, that the committee expressed concern that these strengths were based on status rather than fixed cost. There was a lot of talk, and the Ministry made its decision about it. There, the weight of one thing is that if we become entangled with the extra resources, it would require a delay in the amount of payment we wish to prevent. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee in particular for the very well - working and fine unity of putting these matters forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u49	The President reminds me of why. The senator should mention the problem. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u50	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. This refers to general supportive measures, but not everyone can be caught. Yes, I think it's very important to follow a balance between the general and the specific one in all of this. This economic situation and this virus situation take place in a very different way in certain sectors, people and businesses, based on all kinds of factors. Some articles are too well, others are quite horrible, so I think in a sense it is very important that support is reasonably specific, that we especially focus on the sectors that are in great difficulty but that we do not take care to be scurrying too much money with open and general measures. This too is important economically. We'll see how inflation makes us sorry these days, and growth rates are looking. There's something that I think we need to worry about and react. What else? Yes, status and regular cost. I have found that in general, in most of these government economic measures, it was a good idea to look to standard values when support is given because the purpose of this action is to protect work. We're not just defending social security numbers, we're primarily defending jobs and recruitment relationships. But I think that we just need to have an open mind about how we should act all of this together. Or I'll agree with a lot of what just happened here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u51	Madam President. Thank you. The speaker's talk, and he can agree with the points presented there. Like what? A senator noted that a good change in the bill was made. But we are still, as the committee discussed, with this wide variety of corporate fleas that have had to take the edge in different ways, have been below the limits, have been made to shorten the time of opening, receive fewer guests, compartments, and all of that. Then we have a particular type of company that has just had to shut down, lock up. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk earlier, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson made it clear that we were doing this to cover jobs, and the committee discussed paying a fixed cost which could either be a judicial contract, fever, electricity, and other permit, pay that could be trusted in a reliable way. Hv. A senator mentioned that we were doing this to defend our jobs, but in some cases, as I mentioned here, the work has had to be shut down, it has just been no business and it has been difficult to defend. Is it not true that the senator agrees with me, not especially when we consider other options?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u52	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Places to close are provided with natural closing strength. In effect, 90% of the cost of operating is paying. However, it is a peak, which depends on the number of levels and on the individual enterprises. I might have thought, then, that it would be just as good to raise this peak as it would be to adopt some new set of criteria for fixed costs. This is where we naturally come into the misunderstanding, spoken of earlier, that every time we come up with ideas of doing this a little different, we are warned that it may not take three weeks to go through, but three months, so we need to weigh and weigh the cost of sacrifice, whether it is worth it. But no, as quickly as possible, I find it much wiser to increase these roofs because the bill as it is now assumes to pay 90% of the cost of operating.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u53	Madam President. As I came in here earlier, the changes that we made in the greater part added and were approved, the bill, to a great degree. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson here notes that the members of the group I mentioned in my first talk received a close - up strength. You may not, though, because the amount you raise is the standard value for this amount. In particular, I mention the companies who have been made complete shutting down their activities, have had to cut off all fat, and have entered into the bone, and have, unfortunately, had to - because I agree with the senator when he says we have to protect our jobs. But this has not been possible. Do we not have to look at these companies in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u54	A respectable president. I think it'll be a good idea to look at all of this now that we're taking the volume of wood for inspection. [[Up front.]] Yes, even the natural ones, it has to be extended. I would have thought it would be the device in nearly every instance at the site that is designed to close, and we need to make sure that the bill is made that way. But otherwise, as I mentioned in my speech, I would have liked to see some more interaction, perhaps with previous options, e.g. the part-change process. In fact, it is about pay and what it is. A senator is talking about a second cost. I think that methodology is good. I think it's funny to be in the role of a government spokesman, but it'll just be so. I feel that this method is suggested in some way more effective than being specifically reaching out for every company that may have no employees working for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u55	Madam President. Thank you for the pleasant discussion here. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of the delays to treat this strength. Just like what? A senator pointed out that even weeks can pass before this strength can be paid out. It is now with most of these operators that they are more than small, and their debt status is very bad, so that a minor word is said. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Where would we have needed to improve this? Is that when the Ministry proposed the bill? Was it too late? Didn't the General put it on fast enough? They didn't put it first enough? We're still taking over the accessories and close-up grants and all kinds of things. Shouldn't we be done long ago? That's my first question to ask. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u56	A respectable president. I think it's perfectly clear that the bill we're discussing here today came a month late. I quoted earlier in a news interview at the highest. Secretary of finance, from December 10, where he himself said that he needed very fast hands. Of course, I would have liked to see this bill come on before Christmas. Then perhaps it could have been taken care of quickly and safely as soon as a meeting came together after Christmas or even before. Maybe you could've put more blanks on that one. I know that many operators in this sector were a bit of a shock when the Allied went home for Christmas on holiday without having any access to sponsorship for these sectors. True, there was a $1 billion bill. That's not enough. It's not enough just to agree to the budget, it's gotta be started. The other, naturally, is what we went over earlier, that the IRS performs legal tasks in February that deal with data and preparation for the pressures of public pay, and, of course, other measures adopted by Christmas, as everyone works. The Ministry of Economics specifically warned that it could delay the work of the tax, so some of it was anticipated. This is what I think of most of all. Of course, after two years of this epidemic, we need to be ready to act quickly on the economic side when environmental restrictions are presented. There's something you would've wanted to see in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he thinks so. A senator has stopped representing the government, in answer to that, at least. But later I wanted to ask him why. A senator: I mentioned earlier that my appearance is very bad in all the sectors that have been deeply affected by the end of the Covid and so on. A recent survey made it clear that when the largest of the three people in each sector were taken out of the survey, the debt status and the rest of all companies were very poor. They said we couldn't catch everyone, but the big ones have access to shareholders. The big parties have access to bank payment. It doesn't have the little people on the same scale. What must we do to help our minor members?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u58	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator says it's the big, heavy business that has access to the financial resources. Hence, it is of utmost importance in all such government support measures to direct them specifically to smaller parties. In effect, one way is by subsidizing business costs and using some kind of peak, the maximum amount of money. That's a way the government didn't go when it was completely unprecedented, I think. I don't know that in any other part of the world it's been done that companies have been paid to give up employees in the name of defending recruitment relationships. I don't even remember what righteousness was, it was completely out of the cow. But I think it's very important to remember this now that we're taking on the money grant, that support is specifically directed to these small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the same amount of credit. and the big ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u59	Madam President. I'd like to go to the 2nd. with regard to the grant to the hosts of restaurants that have been limited to opening hours and may first try to look at the matter from a little distance. Of course, the situation being faced here does not come from anything. It is available for the actions of the government over the last two years. The last few weeks of government action may particularly come to a critical viewpoint, especially the limitations that are common to our present - day people. Those in charge of this matter, operators of restaurants, have regularly been in the position for the past two years not to sell it to those who want to buy it from them because of government decisions. That's what we're dealing with right now. I can explain to myself that it is absolutely a waste of me to understand that we, or the government, rather, are now in February, still wondering what kind of delinquency will be. Of course, risk the fastest. There is no basis or need for anything else. It's like I came in against what I said. Of course, the head of the Economic and Business Committee earlier and the head of the Committee opinion is of course no other than compensation to the members who are subject to the rules of this country. However, the benefits are not far from improving the damage being caused by these enterprises. This presented a conclusion on the development of private tourism services at the beginning of the year, the development of their own budget in 2020. The cost of tourism companies dropped by 35 billion in 2020 - 35 billion. This has not come to a conclusion about the development of the last year, 2021, but no doubt the situation will be comparable. If we assume that the same trend was that year, this is a 70 billion reduction in the financial resources of tourism companies. It's an amazing damage these actions have caused, and, of course, more remarkable is the fact that there is no attempt to go back as fast as anyone can when the position we are facing now is in regard to the virus, this ultrasound variant and the small damage it seems to cause. The last of us senators received a letter from a group of privateists and small companies in travel services. It is a group that has been particularly badly affected not only by the limits established by governments but also by the solutions offered. The situation is probably no more severe than in these small, fertile, Mexican family companies around the country where their feet have been completely pulled off, and the treatment of monocytes has, of course, been a capitalite for the two years of this situation. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson came earlier into the interaction between the public and the private sector in regard to values. Of course, it is an interaction that exists and is important, but at the top of the series, so to speak, in keeping the system going is that valuable things are allowed to happen. The worthy treasure of the operation of the public system and society of all and our well - being systems are taking place in the private sector. It's the foundation. That's why it's so awful to watch, e.g. the development of tourism companies and the development of personal funds, which, of course, provide a good measure of health, as it goes down to about 35 billion in 2020 and certainly not less in 2021. But if we get back to the caterers, I've said here in the past that I think it's kind of crazy more often as I think that restaurants are put in the position of carrying the cost of a land hospital's bad standing. What has this field done to deserve to reflect because it is the way it is, that experts think that the Landskeeper will not be able to handle the project he has had in the past few weeks and months, and therefore these limitations are necessary? What in the world makes it normal for the local caterers to have the cost of this with a wide limit on the number of guests and opening hours? I've thought this more and more strange as I think more about it and the strangest thing about everything is that it's driven forward under the strength of the Independence Party. As mentioned in previous talks, we will next discuss the level of resistance and closure, which are prime products that will probably come from the highest level. The secretary of finance in the next few days will become more of the same, as is the case. Keeping companies walking through business difficulties is about seeing land, with the hope of surviving. While that hope is being pulled back regularly, with increasing restrictions and violations of the individual's freedom to run their businesses, of course, you are getting very tired. That is what worries me now and has actually been seen in interviews with various traveling workers during the last days. Real concerns are expressed because they do not reach the country, that is too difficult and exhausting, that oxygen is too low and unpredictable, and then government decisions have fallen to break up the hope of humans in existence. A respectable president. I'm going to make this work in this discussion on this subject. I'm concerned, as I say, that we are now looking into a period where, primarily, there will be more of the same talk from the government, the period of shoplifting and shutting-up, where the main energy seems to go into having enough notice and precise enough so that no one will pass through. I think, as in the last two years, we should watch more general, more open rules and try to simplify the company's management situation as possible. If there's ever a reason for that, now that companies have to be able to put their money and energy and time into what they earn, which is important, not what they do with the system. I think we're supposed to use this timepoint right now to get us to the task of simplifying the business environment of these companies, and above all, there could be companies in the restaurant business and tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u60	Madam President. This is an important issue, because the government's actions to deal with the epidemic call for action, action, but it raises a very large and persistent question. For example, it provides a reminder of the extent of uncertainty in the way governments have approached this issue. It has sustained uncertainty, especially for the small enterprises, the people who fire them, and was now facing a lot of problems with the system long before the epidemic began because of an ever-growing taxation of regulations and an increase in cost but then completely uncertain with the prospects for future survival, and not just a management outlook, but the management costs of its enterprises. Even the highest. A financial minister has criticized his own government for not showing more vision of the future, more confidence in action, and this has become particularly prominent in these last days, even for the last few weeks. There seems to be a very small correlation between the rate of the outbreak, between the success of preventing the disease and the current policies or policies. This changes in fear and excitement and often seems to swing from conversation in society, depending on what people are doing in other countries, but also just by who they would like to maintain concerts at a certain time or by how many people allow themselves to criticize government policy. Criticism was not well discussed with this group of languages. We now see that it seems very fast which way the government wants to deal with the epidemic, and it seems to be following rather than leading, following after the discussion, they feel that they need to react rather than lead and have become withdrawn from neighboring countries, despite the fact that it is now the right thing to do to make a great deal of success in preventing the nation. But that was not because of the government's policy on the matter. This was because the Icelanders were united in doing what was needed to address this problem, this epidemic, but, of course, on the grounds that were laid down in the first place. The government's policy now seems to fluctuate most after the discussion. It's not a good place, and it's not a comfortable place for people who are trying to run a small business. True, it is possible for humans to see that trying to influence the discussion may have some effect on the subject, that it is the way of setting its mark on government policy, but action, however, is random and often frequent, or at times, let us say at least, paradox that it is very difficult to make the measures needed for the staff and even concerning the question of whether it will continue to continue the business. This is one thing, Madam President, the persistent uncertainty which is a very expensive thing. But then there's the other side. On the one hand, because of the uncertainty of the business and society, the other side is the loss that results from the need to act on the various procedures, and that is what I wanted to discuss here in the second part of the talk. I have felt completely lacking the two years we have been dealing with this epidemic that the answer is, How is this financed? In the long run, how will we live to see that the debt of the state has increased rapidly and dramatically and that it needs to be paid back? We were very well equipped, Icelandic society, in order to cope with this problem, better in place of economics than likely most other countries, but this is due to the large economic political initiatives being carried out in the position of the State Fund for the better. The present government has since its beginning, actually before the epidemic, used this position to promote capital capitalism. But there is absolutely no need for the government to show how to maintain the value of themselves, how to create more valuable creations to cover debt and remain out of the welfare system, especially the health system, which we see on the impact of the epidemic may not seem to be a major problem. Instead of promoting the needed valuable things in the past or in the future, this government has progressively expanded its ranks. It was recently observed that during the last terms, public work had increased by 9,000, while the private sector had declined by the same number. I will not belittle the fact that most public jobs are extremely important to society. But in order to be able to live up to them, in order to pay the pay for this work and, of course, to the best possible salary, the state must earn money from the private sector. There has been an enormous error during the reign of this government, with an incredible growth in the public sector of the state and rural society, while a reduction in the work in the private sector. It seems almost no matter what the economic situation is, how its rhythms are at any given time, this government just increases the booth. If it's down, it gets bigger. If it's fibbing, it'll get bigger. But it has also been implicated in the uniqueness of the private sector in a variety of ways, with an ongoing new order. We now see in the government's latest Constitution that what stands out there is more burdensome regulations, the implementation of more complex regulations for companies to deal with, obstacles to developing or operating businesses in Iceland and spending more costs. There are new institutions, but there are very little questions about how to make valuables to live up to. In this, the government will not respond, no more than in the disease control cases, unless it is pressured to do so. There's no initiative, there's no vision. The latest example is the debate on the energy issues directly related to this issue because energy is the basis for a nation's high value creation and we need a valuable resource to finance it. Suddenly, however, government ministers or pretend ministers have discovered that they are headed for a power shortage, and they need to produce more energy, and more power needs to be activated. It's like I'm telling you completely new discovery that it seems, because in this field the government hasn't shown any interest in anything since it began working and, in fact, rather, is getting in the way of an important source of energy. The latest example of this attitude is revealed in the earlier Constitution of this government in which a third - step frame program is announced, and when? On the last day the government can bring up a case without being given a release. Last day. In other words, there is not much emphasis on solving this major problem that the treatment of the frame plan has become, contrary to bringing it in here when it is clear and clear - these are not all political innovations - that it will be very difficult and very unlikely that the matter will get out here at the council. Great opportunities to value it in Iceland are neglected. I mentioned here earlier today at the council's work a matter that may be closely associated with this, the importance that Iceland and I make more valuable things in order to improve the quality of life in Iceland, that one of these possibilities is potential oil sources, but especially gas sources in Iceland's economic legal history. There had been some very positive evidence that oil and especially gas could be found in the Dragon area at work and that these projects had occurred in their time, it would have tolerated the economy in Iceland, but in particular the sector and construction of the North and Eastern countries. Because of a temporary situation in Norwegian politics, the then government of Norway disappeared from this project, and the government was just fine. But what is happening now in Norway? A few days ago, 53 new licenses for oil and gas were published in Norwegian jurisdiction. But at the same time, the Icelandic government presents its plans to ban research, not just processing, but research. It may tell you a story about the timing and approach of this government of right and wrong, of reason or of lack of reason, that it should be placed in order to ban research. They may be afraid that if research made a positive result, it would increase the desire to use this resource used by our neighbors to improve the marvelous standard of living in their countries. Then there is economic developments in general that cannot be cut off from the issues we discuss here, the firms. At last, the threat of growing inflation, continuing inflation, is entering the radar of this government. But there is no response. The answers aren't any. However, they continue to approach things in a way that has likely promoted inflation rather than the other. The group continues to grow. It is now pointed out by some minister that the mortgage may be a problem in the price balance. That was something they could know years ago. The members of the Central Party repeatedly pointed to this, members of other classes, large parts of the labor movement. But what was the response to this government in such indications? There is much to ridicule, or to question such matters here at the council. Suddenly, new ones are born, as in so many other fields, pretending to be worried about this and to take some initiative in that area. In fact, it is very similar to many other subjects, e.g. Transportation. All of a sudden, there is a presentation meeting on the plans to park the Sunway. In fact, people take a very good time at it and plan to complete that assignment sometime during the next decade. But this is not the first time that this government has spoken about the Sunway and the plan that there might be something to do about it. But what was the case? In fact, the government, the secretary of transportation, has repeatedly been convened by the city of Reykjavík in this large, well - improved language of transportation and many others. It was for a while and may still have been like that, as if the Department of Transport, now or so, was directed from the city council of Reykjavík. It even appeared. in the amazing phenomenon that came up with the name a transport problem, where the state originally paid 50 billion, the first payment, in a so - called city line without an idea, as it has been shown, including: from the highest. Secretary of finance, what the cost of operating would be, and how much of it would land on the land, or what the total cost of construction would be. But in such a project, this government puts tens of billions and tens of billions in very vague action on climates, which are hard to reason that it will have a significant effect, but very significant influence, obviously, in order to reduce the value in society and in quality of life. That's just how it is described, Madam President, in the government climate program. It'll take less consumption, it'll take more punishment taxes. In such things the government spends, not on what may be meant to increase its value in the land. The lack of resources is the dominant but to the extent that the government operates in action, there is a fall in the expansion of the stall, an attack of adverse activities. Let's just see, for example, the difference between the practicality of the Sunway and the city line. If there was to be a strong attack on the Daffway instead of the city line, the difference would be, if it were a question of either or, of course, hundreds of billions. Instead, all of this is based on some precariousness, such as this capital contract in which the city feels that it has no obligation to fulfill its promises, of course, that it is not certain that it will be carried out in transports in the capital area where the government was going to pay for it. However, even there have been forced, and there have been in the Dizziness Way through the city of Reykjavík, for more than one and more than two more city officials in Reykjavík expressed doubts about the fact that this work is to be done at the head. However, the government seems to be able to fool voters indefinitely, just as the city can fool the government indefinitely and bring new presentations on the fact that, yes, it stands to do all of this together, in the next term or next year or after ten years, etc. It's all in the same book, Madam President. When we discuss such issues as this here, an important matter to prevent other inevitable losses to Iceland's employment life, it should be a reminder to us of the importance of this job life and the importance of just looking beyond this case and the reciprocation of it, and aim to improve the sector of these companies, their potential to work here, and their potential for new enterprises to develop. This bill is, of course, a form of recognition. That's the only way to look at it. This includes recognition of the importance of personal resources and therefore the State needs to pay money to keep it going. But should that not also include some vision, some ideas about how we can maintain and increase this treasure creation in the long run?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u61	A respectable president. I come up here to declare the support of this case, not because I think it's so awesome, but because I think it's one stone on the way to stand by the agencies that have been affected and damaged by the state created by the crown virus. We're oversituating a case in a hurry. Payoffs have been delayed. They're talking about working with the food field. We've been watching a close - up strength and other sources of resistance, so there's a number of factors in the water and in a car that may have helped some extent to undo the serious damage that has been done. I thought, as a representative of the Economic and Business Committee, that he would listen to the restaurant sector's representatives describe the position they were in, and that they did in January when they were, in effect, saying they weren't having for the months and couldn't pay, were waiting to see us try to finish it in January. But there was no way to do that, and then we received a suggestion that from the time that this kind of operation is agreed and until you can apply for at least Three weeks. Then you will work further and take note of all the applications that are being received. Although we feel that we are responding in a hurry, and often complain that we are doing things in a bit of dog range, those who expect help to want things to happen more quickly than we have thought could. Of course, we are in the position that this situation has caused great damage to certain groups, while others are relatively good and even better than before. We need to show community responsibility all the way in this case, that society is on both companies and people who have had to take on a heavy load because of the epidemic. I haven't seen what might be started, but we know, like, some things that were there last year. Many of us made comments that the budget bill did not expect all these work responsibilities that were present in 2021. Right now, in January, we are changing the budget bill we agreed on two weeks or three weeks ago. So I found it very special that these provisions did not survive the years that they truly needed to make. In my rural society, where unemployment is 10%, it was certainly necessary that these provisions live. But all right, they didn't, and they're being reinvented in this way. I hope we have most of the people in need. However, it has also been pointed out that this does not cover everyone. There are always some who drop between ships and docks, and we need to have a manpower in us to look after them groups and to put their arms around them in some way. Here in a pita has been mentioned by sports companies who have lived by playing games, and I mention basketball and handball as an example. Those companions are having a hard time pushing themselves, and many have come forward. These groups need to be looked to. It was mentioned in a news interview that half a billion people are coming into cultural affairs. I haven't seen a move on it, and I think it's right to call for to see what to do for that group. Many artists are in serious trouble, and many techs are out in the market as monotonous. When you don't have a show, you can't pay for it. These are often subsidies of relatively low wages, and they do not necessarily depend on the resources being proposed. I encourage us to try to look at these groups in some way, so we all come out of the epidemic. We need to be humanitarian in this, not just giving some instruction, but looking at it with our heart and trying to hold one another in such a way that people are as bad as possible. I'd also like to mention unemployed people who are certainly part of the problem that has existed for two years. Many lost their jobs when WOW left for 2019, so many groups have been out of work all that time. We have a short unemployment period, the shortest in this century. It was extended in the crash, and then it was reduced again and far below what it had been before a crash. Thus, many have died because of unemployment records and have no alternative but to go to rural areas for alimony. Similarly, the income - related period of unemployment, or unemployment insurance - I view it as insurance. We're paying insurance on our salary, so it's supposed to guarantee people the damage they're going to do to their jobs. In fact, it is a guarantee that people have already paid, and they are to be improved in some way. Thus, there are many resources, not only to companies, but also to those who have worked within the companies that have been damaged. A respectable president. That's all I have to say about this for now. I'll support this case, and I hope we get it out of the way fast and fast. I'm not going to discuss the city line or the Sunway now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u62	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the grant to the operators of restaurants that have reached the limit of opening time. Here we are responding to the situation we have faced for far too long, to say, some of our companies have had to deal with the limitations of the worldwide epidemic. We, like others, received a new viral variant, ultrasound, at the beginning of November that significantly changed the situation just for the reason that humans did not know what was coming or how this variant affected people and therefore at our hospital. But I think the government's reaction now shows that the effects of the ultrasound phenomenon may not be as serious as those of our previous differences, and slowly, we're seeing lights at the end of the tunnel and opening up our society more. However, this does not change the fact that it is necessary to respond and support those who have been closed or have their work under burdensome restrictions. This case is part of it. I completely agree with them. The members of the council who have mentioned before me that the matter has been well discussed in the Committee, and they will be better after discussions and consultations with both those working in this business and other professionals. However, the individuals mentioned here have made it very clear that there is a certain group that has fallen between us and is falling between a ship and a dock in this matter. Of course, the fact is that not everyone can be caught. But I think it should be our job to take as many people as possible. As a result, I have no income but also have fixed cost of operating, as I have already gone over. There are contracts, heat, and electricity, and there are certain licenses that will not disappear despite the fact that no income will come in. I'm saying this because the criteria have all been towards standard values. I understand that it is important to have a flow in this with us to keep it efficient and simple and with the aim of making quick application delivery. But it doesn't change it at a fixed cost. It has come to pass in places and neighboring countries to meet them, and I read only a little, and I didn't have to look far because our friends in Denmark have made the way for people to choose between ways, through various resources, and including paying a certain amount of fixed cost along with an accountant's declaration. But okay. This is the best case we have in front of us, but there are other issues we need to consider at the Committee, and that is the closing grant. Then perhaps the most worried places, the little places that have had to close everything and have even had to, unfortunately, come to the places I've been worried about. It's a small family business that's responsible for all its business. I think we need, and we have a responsibility, in the review of the Committee, to examine closely whether there is any surface or any possibility of reacting to the situation that these companies are facing. The reason why I mention this small company is simply that although this has had a significant impact on the activities of restaurants and others, I think it still makes sense that these, with the permission of the President, were able to deliver several visitors despite limitations, and hence, they had more opportunities to be with employees in their profession. I believe this bill that we're on for consideration will be very successful, but not in all respects, the party. That's what I'm praying to us and my friends. Senators of the Economic and Business Committee... that we're looking at the other group on a close-down grant... and see if there's any more of us... in spite of the fact that we're all aware that we're never gonna catch everyone. In many ways today's discussion is very good, and we took into account a few comments and comments received by the committee, which made us here with a good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u63	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the union law, no. 80/1938. The bill is now submitted for the second time, but it was once proposed to a 151th legislation of legislatures without the completion of its material payment by the General Assembly. The bill was written in the Department of Social Affairs by a committee appointed by the current social and equality minister to respond to the comments of the European Council against corruption (GRECO) from March 28, 2013, to the arrangement adopted by a national judge in social law. The Committee appointed representatives from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Coalition of Colleges, the BSRB, the National Social Affairs and Economic Affairs Association. Despite the fact that the Committee was solely intended to make certain adjustments in regulations IV. See The Watchtower, No. 6 / 1 80/1938, as for the order of a social court judge, the committee considered it necessary to provide other adjustments in the chapter's terms, with small changes in the section from the law's sentence in 1938. A respectable president. The bill suggests an adjustment of the order of judges in social law according to the recommendations made by the aforementioned committee. Does the change seem important in order to ensure greater independence and fairness of social order while it is weighed against the special judgment against public courts. It is suggested that the minister ship five judges in the social court. Of these five judges, it is assumed that the Supreme Court names three, including the president and the vice president of the court, and that they are all appointed untimely. At that time two judges are still assumed to be designated by the European Union of industry and the European Union of Iceland for three years at a time, but it is assumed that a minister will take the formal order. Furthermore, the requirements of social justice are suggested to be increased, but according to the current law, a judge's requirements for social matters are considerably lower than those made in general courts. In this regard it is suggested that the judges appointed by the Supreme Court be appointed judges at the National Court, or district courts, while performing the office of judges in Social Affairs but are also suggested to increase the qualifications of the judges appointed by ASI and SA. There are also adjustments aimed at improving the effectiveness of the sentence and the clarity of the laws of society. A respectable president. Socialization plays an important role in judging the labour market court. It is vital that we have confidence in the judgment and in those who are in it. I reiterate that the bill is a success in the workforce between the labour market parties and I believe that the changes presented here have fallen to further increase this trust. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u64	Madam President. This bill is about the order of judges, but I'm asking the highest. Minister: What will happen when judgment has fallen? The judgment of Socialism is final, but what happens when it comes to results? Now I'm particularly concerned with the results that came in January - ASI on the behalf of Iceland's Flight Society for the Judgment Against the Professional Association, on behalf of Illellanda - they were Iceland's stewardship members. The company that had been supported by government funds should have hired people back into ages but did not. The judgment is clear and lies ahead. But what can the staff expect? There are about 70 people who have had the damage and cost of this company's conduct, and what can they expect? Who Is Responsible? Who grabs in? And who is guarding the interests of the employees in this case? The highest. The labour market minister reviews it with us here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The judgment of socialization is final, as is why. A senator came in. With that judgment as a course of action. A senator acknowledged that the terms of a collective agreement were not carried out. So this is a judgment based on a set of requirements in the Icelandic stewardry agreement and the National Association of Employment or Icelanda. In fact, the role of Social Affairs is to take for granted the debates that had to do with this bargaining arrangement. Those who believe that these collective agreements have been violated would have the opportunity to seek justice in one way or another against the courts, I would count. But maybe there's another way to solve a problem, I don't know. However, it is the party's decision to examine whether they can reach any conclusion, for the judgment is very clear regarding the violation of a bull's contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u66	Madam President. When the work community defended the Illelands, they quoted in their data in particular to the fact that my proposal had been made to reinvigorate the company's post, i.e. A company that would be supportive to resign. This proposal was made here at a council hall by the council members of the then state and government. The employment community is saying, by using this in its defense, that it was a clear message from the legislatator that the companies could manage it and that they could overlook their age at the time of re-election. I would have chosen, and we, in the United States, that it was completely clear in the law what the conditions were in this regard. This strategy was designed to prevent corporate bankruptcy. It was intended that companies would be placed in the hands of some means that they could get rid of employees who had either been uncomfortable, perhaps due to toughness in collective agreements, or too expensive because of their age and experience evaluated for remuneration in collective agreements. Does not the State have a certain responsibility because the proposed proposal made it clear to them that it was acceptable to violate the employees of the companies who received the government's grant to resign them? It would have been easier to give them the strength to maintain a recruitment relationship, which is now another story.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u67	V.E.G. President. As I came to this point, the result of Socialism is based only on a certain dresser contract that is in the collective agreement of Iceland's Flights Society and Icelands. It is certainly true that this series of years has to be addressed again, taking into account age in the case of group reports. In the court of Social Affairs, there is no mention of the laws on the support of the state's funds due to payment of part of the pay paid for notice, not to the court's conclusions. This age - related issue is not found in many other collective agreements, between other unions, so you can also ask: Would it have been normal to put it into the law on the source when it may have been primarily true of flying articles? At any rate, it is clear that this was a bull's contract violation, but there is no mention of the law on government funds because of payment on part of pay expenses. Thus, it cannot be seen that this has a general precedent when it comes to group reviews or resurgence following them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u68	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill. I'd like to ask him a little bit about the decision to move the case unchanged from the last council, not taking into account the reports that came from the Icelandic law firm and other legal agencies regarding the Supreme Court of Social Affairs. The reasons for this bill are, of course, GRECO's tips that are worthy of attention. The indications during the course of the procedure. The welfare committee at the last assembly suggested that although social judgment is final, decisions are held at the Supreme Court. It is unfortunate if the Supreme Court has earlier cared for the appointment of three of the five social decisions when the Supreme Court will later take up a lawsuit that may be due to the decision of Social Affairs. Second, it is considered unfortunate, especially if we are going to see the independence of Socialism - for the purpose of this game, that there is a certain independence - that the judges of Social Affairs designated by the Supreme Court are designated untimely, while the other two, designated by SA and ASI, are designated only for three years at the same time. There is a marked imbalance between the judges of Social Socialism, which in effect is said to be a failure to ensure the independence of the judges appointed for such a short period of time. It would be nice to hear the minister's attitude toward this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answer to this is that those comments that also came to the council, as I understand, into the confidentiality of the times, and the committee that had the responsibility to make a bill about the changes in the law, came to the conclusion that they were not to be taken into account. Even so, she was called back in September after the council had discussed the matter, since similar comments were likely made on the council. The conclusion was, once again, not making a change. There is no way to appeal to the material judgments of social law to the Supreme Court, but there are certain points that can be referred to, as I know. A senator knows well. It is believed that the Supreme Court of a ship there judges who are either regional or national courts are the means of increasing the weight of judgment, strengthening his position, and seeing him, if I may allow myself to say so, more judgment because there are judges here who are judge by the district or national courts. The Senator, however, comes on to see whether it is inconsistencies in the fact that the order for the people appointed by the Supreme Court is temporary, but it is temporary when it comes to the union of the labour market. I completely understand that question, and I've asked myself that question and I'll try to better address it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u70	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Now this committee is appointed by the bill to representatives of the National Social Association of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Teacher Union, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association of Professional Affairs, Social Affairs and Economic Affairs. I wondered, " Why wasn't there any reason to call an agent, e.g. The Community's attorneys or possibly the European Court of Justice to discuss these clear indications regarding the suitable judges, trimetrics, etc. The very purpose of this work is to prevent some kind of corruption involving senators, judges, prosecutors, and others, of course, the role of GRECO. You wonder: " Why is it beginning to create this imbalance, not to listen to the warnings of the best - known? ' Also, it might be wondered whether it would have been advisable to have a chance to appoint a legalized person who is an expert at work, since this is now all about the work rights that are being done there, instead of a government judge who may have more extensive experience in other fields, but may not be the workaholics. One wonder: If a certain individual, a particular expert, meets all conditions for becoming a judge, is that not enough? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u71	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. These include those in the Northern countries, when they were trying to evaluate them by temporary and temporary commands, and in Norway this is done for three years at the labour market. Regarding who were then members of the committee, there were members who were appointed as judges in Social Affairs today. ASI and SA. Here is a matter of opinion that this committee took into consideration and came to this conclusion. I've personally read the reviews that came from the law firm, including the law. and I completely understand what it says and think this may be a very good case for the Council Committee to bring in different experts. A professor of law was also consulted at the bill's contract, so more than just parties within the Committee. And that was the result. I think it's the best thing to do this right now, to invite visitors with different viewpoints, and then we'll discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u72	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in damage laws for the rape. The movers come from all groups to the General Assembly, which is the one here, Gísli Rafn the Ólafsson of Tómasson, Gísliun the son of Olaph, Hafíddi the Young Hafsteinsdóttir, Vilhjálmur the Árnason, Þorbjörg Sigríður, the daughter of Gunnlaugsdóttir, Bergþór Ólason, and Jódís, the Skúladóttir of Judol. I don't think there's much of a bill, it's like: - Uh-huh. - Me and III. a new article of the law, 27. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's a gift. A policy to pay damage or error due to fractures at XXII. No. 19/190, as well as 218.g. And the same law, it shall be for the province, for the land's rights, and for the Supreme Court. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ Madam President. This bill suggests that there will be a legal application in private matters that will address the charge of dysfunction and damage due to sexual abuse at the same time. XXII. No. 19/190, as well as acts of violence between close contacts, scr. the contents of 218. gr. b same song. With the bill it would be that the legislators thus place special emphasis on the tolerability of sexual crime and the tolerability of acts of crime in close relationships by applying acceptable legislation so that those who tolerate the wrongs of the injured can, despite the inquisitor's delinquency at the level of investigation or criminal rights, seek ways to bring benefits to those who did the deed. Transporters believe that the nature and severity of these offenses justify the application of legal discipline in these specific matters. Madam President. The weight of evidence in matters varies depending on whether it is a criminal or a personal matter. Evidence in criminal affairs requires that proof be legal and that any doubt is interpreted in favor of the defendant. There is a greater demand for proof in criminal affairs than in personal matters, but there is an end to sexual crime in court and even fewer in conviction. That's a fact. Since such proof requirements are not available in private matters, the operators of the bill feel that it is proper to encourage victims of violence to accept their right to pay damage or error and thus gain recognition of that part of the case. In spite of the fact that their right to plead, there is very little need for victims of violence to look for ways to verify the responsibility of non-violence in this way and thus make very little part of the fragile damage or failures due to the consequences of a long-term and broad-spread offense. Then it is not a realistic possibility for much of the violations to take their rights in private matters, as this can lead to great financial risks. In general, there is the possibility of a commitment to a very low income for an applicant. However, there are also legal cases of abduction that have been granted regardless of the economy of the applicant. Transporters believe domestic violence and sexual abuse should be without reservation within this category of legal cases. The economic status of people or family should, in the opinion of the movers, not determine whether it is possible to obtain exclusive rights in this category. Madam President. In 1st. Twenty-nine. In April 2018, the European Council's Convention on Prevention and Against Violence Against Women, validated in Iceland, guarantees that the State should take the necessary measures to ensure that adequate personal rights are available for those who are able to seek their rights against a person. In view of this, and even more, because of the number of matters that never occur in the eyes of a judge, tourists feel that it would be right to provide relief by granting a legal appeal to the application of damage or error due to sexual crime and crime in close contacts. After discussing this matter, I suggest that it be sent to the hospital. The General and Education Committee, and I hope that with the solidarity of all members of Congress here at the council, we will bring this matter of justice through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u73	Madam President. Thank you. A prominent historian for having made a good account of the case she presented here. I'm part of a group of importers, and I know what to do. paritaprevir Vala Vóg Vógva Helgadóttir was very grateful that she had taken the initiative in this matter. I maintain my mind on the objective of the matter, considering that this is one of several ways that those who are tolerated have. Of course, we're looking at the legal system in relation to criminal matters, but also in connection with personal matters, and then I think society is opening up because of the reality that there are many ways to settle these issues. I mention this with a reference to my personal professional experience. I have experienced so much, through experience in the treatment of criminal affairs, the rich need for those with whom there is a crime, especially sexual abuse, and the toleration of domestic violence, or in cases involving violence in close relationships, as well as recognition of what happened. And it must be said that when it is compared with other criminal issues, it is a very strong feature of sexual immorality that is rarely made for confession. In fact, in the cases that go through the system, even in the cases that lead to the charges, in those matters that lead to conviction, the recognition is usually from the system rather than from the doer. We know, as an authority entered, that the figures are as if they were about the proportion of cases leading to the charges. However, I feel that it is important to keep it in place that the proportion of cases leading to convictions after the release of charges is rather high, but it is important to open to other means. I'd also like to put this in context of the discussion that is taking place in the community right now and we've been in for a couple of years, the #methoo speech, but in order to get around these fractions--even though, of course, the main goal must always be to prevent them, not just to react to them--I think we need to look at this as I think the senior of the case must be doing. There are many steps that must be taken to better control this sect. Some are large, some become difficult, some are smaller, others are small, yet important. In this context, I'd like to mention the duration of the procedure that I'm not tired of mentioning. I think that this is a part of important legal rights now, and I think it is very important to approach this party, like any other member of the justice system, so that the court is alive, the court is stable, but is changing and growing to the rhythm of the times. I think there's a tool here for that. I wondered that under it all the bounds of the sexual offense fall, and then the 218th par. b in regard to violence in close relationships, for sometimes cases are applied below 217 grams, even if in close relationships, or 1 mg. 218. Okay, OK. A senator realizes where I'm going. I wondered if there's a possible point that needs to be considered that it doesn't matter if the connection is what it means to be punished. But I'm happy to see this case, and that's, of course, for the reason that I'm involved with it and thank you. A senator very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, and it is very good to experience her deep experience in this field. I just wanted to consult her fountain of experience on the incidence of judges deciding to separate matters from criminal charges. In my legal life, a private matter was separated from a criminal charge. This was not a legal case; it was not a sexual offense or a domestic abuse; it was another case in which the requirement was separated and sent elsewhere. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would have known if she had ever been there. The other is that I think it is important to judge to get a broader background of these matters in front of themselves, that there may also be an opportunity for a judge to see that these matters happen in all possible situations, that the response to violations is as many as the stars in the sky and the same with the response of bacteria. But I'm worried that the prosecution has a too narrow definition and doesn't allow enough cases to go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u75	Madam President. Regarding the question of recovery, a brief answer is: No, I don't have much experience with it. I recall, though, that this was the case in which the district was acquitted, and they went to the National Court that there was no necessarily a penalties, possibly I'm not mistaken. But no, I haven't had experience in the fact that the private part was being separated a lot. I couldn't agree more. A member of the council that it is just an important point that at the top of the system, there is a better insight into how different things are, especially when there is so much background, that judges see it, just like prosecutors, defenders, jurists, lawyers, health workers, and health - care professionals, are very broad in these matters. As for the prosecution's filter, it may well be. I'd like to think, though, that I think that the biggest poles in the justice system are just the same - no one is talking about reducing the burden of evidence but that there's a time when a violation is proved different. If we were to spend more time with them, we know that by 1990, the difference was still greater. In fact, in the studies that have been conducted, I've been working on one of these myself, it was a far more violent case that led to a charge some decades ago than it was today. But I've also experienced a remarkable change in the fact that there is also a different case that becomes a complaint to the police. This is positive because those who tolerate themselves and not merely come to the police with the obvious issue of every outside situation so that they can see what happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm just wondering what it's like. A senator came up on this definition, whether it would also be possible to refer to 217. gr. I welcome that discussion, and it may well be necessary to talk about it in close relationships. Of course, we are also confronted with the way judges or courts define close relationships. We have a new example in which a judge will make that decision or conclude that there is no close - knit violence because a young couple were not enrolled in it. But it is not specified in the law that there is a divorce for the definition of falling below 218 grams. b, on the contrary. There is no reference to either having to be in registered relations or marriage, so, of course, we are in that problem, and it may have to be taken out completely in a committee party, if the matter goes all the way, decided on any doubt in this matter. The law may also need to give particular consideration to this and make sure that this can happen again and suggest changes in the general law on this law to make sure that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u77	Madam President. I'm referring to the laws under which the very objective is to reach all the cases in which violence is involved in a close relationship, perhaps it's something that might be considered in the treatment of the case, just because it's happened to you, some standard on the part of the courts as to what would happen. I'm what? A member of the council heartly agreed on this and felt the same way when I was in my former job that it wasn't the lawgiver's intention, I don't think so. As you read the report, the Lawgiver's purpose is to frame in and make a special consideration of these fractions and in the report is to discuss what is being watched for. I don't think it was the intention of the legislature to define a pair relationship so narrow that it is necessary for registered cohesion because then we can also view a variety of social variables and circumstances; the house market today, young people living longer in parents' homes, e.g., not registered in living together, perhaps living in the basement at home of Mom and Dad or in a room where they've been in contact and communication for years, is clearly a family relationship. I think this is something that needs to be kept in mind as long as the situation is this. Although the bill is naturally in control of these issues, it may be something that might be noted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you to all of them. Congress officials are on this matter. It is my hope that the fact that they members of Congress come from all categories that we can demonstrate to those with whom we stand. In recent years, it has been seen increasingly that the tolerance of sexual offenders does not have complete confidence in police and courts to investigate and judge in a fair way. There is evidence that only a small proportion of individuals in such cases have to be punished for their wrongdoing. In all likelihood, then, the most actual picture of sexual abuse is the one that can be obtained by identifying the survival of the perjury of the legal system. Strategies, subversive botanical organizations that provide assistance to their victims, including those who have been exposed to sexual abuse. Extensive education and information services have provided clear information on the legal system from the perspective of the tolerability in their annual reports. These contain statistics based on information from their clients'clients every year. As we evaluated how many fractures are committed each year, we can see how many new insurgents will seek counseling at the Cantinas. Although in some cases it may be an older fracture, the frequency of new cases gives a clue as to how many crimes are exposed each year, as well as the evidence of evolution each year. Looking forward to the past few years, it is seen in 2017 that the total number of new cases was 484. That year was the largest number of new fracture resistant periods since 1992. In 2018, there were new violations of 418, and in 2018 there were 411. The number of new fracture resistances in 2020, likely due to social limitations associated with a pandemic crown virus, was substantially lower, but evidence suggests that the number of new fracture tolerance during 2020 is even greater than in 2019. It is also necessary to consider how effective the legal system is in ensuring that sexual offenders are punished for wrongdoing and can be considered to be the large proportion of individuals in sexual crime to be judged in court. Of the 489 individuals who had a new legal case at Strategies in 2019, 75 individuals reported violence to the police, or 12.2%. Of the 75 charges raised, 20 counts were reported. Of the 20 cases in which the charge was issued, three completed with a righteous standing. In three cases the case ended with a probationary judgment, but the outcome of three cases was uncertain. Thus, the conviction rate for local courts was about 3%. Clearly, no matter what the actual number of offenses is, only a small fraction of bacteria must be punished for their offenses. This low rate of convictions, seen from the perspective of the victims, must be unacceptable, requiring measures such as making it possible for victims to make personal decisions. Available data suggest that charges are published only for 1 in 10 suspected fractures. This is unacceptable. The bill presented here by members of all groups, including me, is suggested to provide a legal application in private matters relating to the abuse and damage caused by sexual acts, as well as acts of violence between close contacts. It is our will that the bill, in this way, put the law to special emphasis on supporting the tolerability of sexual offenders and the tolerance of acts of violence in close relationships by making it easier for them to get their right to damage and error despite the breakdown of investigation and criminal charges or to justify their criminal rights. We believe that the nature and severity of these offenses justify the application of legal discipline in these matters. The fact is, in spite of the right to a lawsuit, in fact, there is a very low rate of sexual abuse for those who tolerate sexual abuse to obtain confirmation of the responsibility of bacteria violence in this way. The truth is, then, that it is not a realistic possibility for much of the violations of personal rights, as this can lead to great financial risks. It is our assessment that the bill is making a major step toward seeking justice despite the disclosure of the police and the prosecution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u79	A respectable president. I welcome the contributions of this bill, and I believe that it is an important matter of rights. All too often, we see a breakdown or even acquiesce in domestic violence and sexual abuse. Although it is difficult for the toleration to ask and decide to charge such matters, it is hardly comparable when the situation is resolved because what has been presented was not even insufficient to be convicted, now or if it is acquitted on a case. Then the sufferers often feel that there is no real solution. They are invited to make personal pay on damages, but the experience is always that they are not religious and that what they were saying and experience has not happened. Personal activities are expensive and time - consuming. The cost can even run on millions, and not everyone is able to pay so much money or even have no energy to fight more for justice in such matters. It is so important that we give the right tools and the right help, for it is heavy enough to continue such a matter and while the victims are hurt, severe wounds with such traumas. This is a step in that direction, and we are relieved of those in the direction of a righteous trial and solution to such cases. I thank you for the opportunity to be a associate on this bill, and I hope we can get this case to work at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the transport. I just wanted to come in on it, that's all. A senator talked about the cost, that it is as much about feelings, i.e. that the system is not trying to do everything it can to fight you. And what are we doing here? We are dealing with a legal application in certain matters, and the Council has previously decided to give legal expediency in some cases in fair cases. When an individual makes benefits for the arrest or other necessary measures by police, arrest, search, search for a person or such, the application is legal. People are always entitled to it. In the case of child - welfare cases, there is a legal and legal divorce on the part of the people. It is also legal. The contemporaneous spirit of adoption shall have a legal appeal and a child in fatherhood, as well. We'll see exactly what this is all about. These are such deep conditions of righteousness that the lawgiver has decided to do his or her part to bring at least This threshold. I felt compelled to point out the issues involved, since I did not do so specifically in a talk or in a report. There's good reason, especially in our time, when we finally have the guts to open up on this discussion and open up these issues and admit that they happen everywhere, that the legislatator follows, and then shrinks at least thresholds of fragility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for this fine explanation of how we stand in the face of such deep - seated rights - as it were. A senator rightly pointed out. It's a fair matter. I agree with it. Thank you. A senator for coming up and explaining this rather.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u82	A respectable president. It is my great privilege and privilege to stand here measuring this vital bill for all those who need assistance for disability and illness. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the UN agreement on the rights of disabled people. I'm with you at the Senate, and I'm a member of the Gangs' party. It's nice to tell you that I used to say this before the last election, and it's usually the two of us, me and the other. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. Now we've made a huge addition. The six men are all on the bill: Sæland Gorand, Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas Andrés Thomas Tómasson. The bill says in 1 Corinthians. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending ▪ The United Nations Convention on rights of disabled people has legal value in Iceland. The Treaty on the rights of disabled persons is published as a document of these laws. And 2. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Faithful people have always had to fight for of course human rights. It is not only a battle against prejudice that we, who are disabled, have had to contend with but also a fight against violence and struggle for equality and the reasonable quality of life. In recent decades, much has been accomplished in this struggle, both in Iceland and in internationally. However, the battle is not nearly over. It is still a long way off, and now it is time to take the next step toward justice and equality for disabled people. One of the most important stages of that fight of rights is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distant People. The agreement aims to ensure the rights of disabled persons to the same extent possible. The contract discusses the rights in Member States to ensure disabled persons and in what way they should be ensured. Iceland signed the contract on its opening day, March 30, 2007. In general, the signing of international agreements is just a declaration of will, but validation involves a national commitment to meet the obligations and to ensure the rights of an international agreement. Immediately following the signing of the contract, there was a struggle to get the contract validated on the part of Iceland, and it's been going on ever since. Finally, in 2016, the Generals agreed to authorize the government to validate the agreement. It was then validated on December 6, 2016, and published in the Government Department on 29 June 2017. The dual-pity theory is in Iceland. This involves international contracts that Iceland does not have the direct right effect. In order for international agreements to have a direct right effect, they need to be established. The legalization of the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled persons would be a great and invaluable act of justice and would guarantee by law the rights of the contract. That is why it has been repeatedly called upon by Iceland's Environment Association, the Developmental Fund, the Iceland's Human Rights Office, and by the general public at the General Assembly to step forward and legalize the contract. In 2019 the General agreed to commit the government to prepare the contract and to present a bill about December 13, 2020. As a result, the contract was decided to be translated again. A new translation was finally submitted in March 2021 and adopted in May that same year at the General Assembly. Only now will it be formalized. Not much later is the kindness, for the delay of the resolution by Generalis has long passed. The bill is therefore suggested to provide legislation on the basis of the translation adopted at the May 11, 2021, Council. The General agreed to a unanimous synopsis proposal for the validation of the contract, on the legalisation of the contract, and on a new translation of the contract. Now it is time to validate the contract and secure the right protection that disabled people deserve. A respectable president. I'd like to talk here about the main rights the contract is up to. I'll say no discrimination against the 6th C. Could I as an invalid, law - blind woman ever have experienced discrimination in my growing up in Iceland? Could I have observed the discrimination that we, who have truly suffered in this way, feel completely obvious, and most disabled, if not all, have to go through at some point in our lives? We say: Is it not enough for a respectable president to be so unfortunate as to be disabled? Is it not enough to be so unhappy to have the limitations of disability that our society does not also discriminate against us and struggle to ensure the basic human rights that we should be assured of? Yeah, the difference was perfect. It didn't matter whether it was in the school system or in the bank where it was on cards where I was in line, it didn't matter. A man was driving on a wall everywhere. It was my eyesight that caused it, my disability. It was kind of forgotten that there were very poor people in the community, even blind people. I'd like to talk about 9. c..................... How would there be access to wheelchairs, even in the administration board itself, even at the Board of Directors, from Generals, anywhere? The bioavailability is the last sordid; in stores, at events, wherever we decompresse our feet in society, there is bioavailability to extreme shame. The right to life in 10. par.; equal recognition of law at 12. par.; person's freedom and security in 14th par.; freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment in 15. par.; liberty from profit abuse; from violence and abuse to 16. par.; protection of privacy in 17. par.; freedom of movement and state to 18. par.; to lead a independent life without separateness in the 19th chapter of the community. It makes me say what I was referring to yesterday at the council: To think of people who lose their health, strokes, such as the young man I talked about here yesterday, who is in a wheelchair, a family man who had a good job with a fine income - what his share is today? What does the rural society he lives today say when he wishes to receive agricultural resources that are convenient for him and his disability so that he can live his own life with dignity in view of the disability he has to deal with today? No, says the country club, you've only had a legal home here for three months. You have to have a legal home here for at least six months so we can look into your case. He doesn't really have any home. It points one to another, as he says himself, he always runs on a new wall. I'm not going to go through the articles any more than they are about health, education - 24. is about education. I wonder if there's a difference between people in the education system. In recent years, however, things have changed for the better. That's where I talk from experience. How many times my dream lay there, and I wanted to learn. How often did I cease to accept my inadequacy because I didn't see well enough because there was no solution for me? I just had to go home and wait. In terms of health care, how many microsurgents, how many disabled persons, are the right to seek and afford health care; be able to go to the dentist, afford to pay their medication, afford to live a decent life in the community? Thousands of Icelanders, thousands of disabled and desperate people, are in pain. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people ensures these people's access to society to as many people as possible with regard to their disability. Now the government has established that it really wants to look at the agreement, and we are in good faith that it will be taken care of because we do nothing without the government's approval. The majority of the Generals have to put their arms around the situation and pass it through the council. The will was clear. The declarations of will were clear. We have confirmed the agreement, and now it is due to be legalized. Yet, there is no evidence that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People is on the table of the government, not this year at least. The point is, you don't want to believe that this is to be drawn until five minutes to the next election. A respectable president. There's nothing to wait for. It's human rights. It is kindness that involves putting our little brothers and sisters around us and making life as acceptable as possible. And if it's in our power here, then why? Councilmen and the highest. Minister, legislature, we're definitely supposed to do that. That's what we're here for. We too are to face ourselves each morning in the mirror, proud of the work we have been doing, and proud that we have a big heart and that we want to work for everyone, not just some. A respectable president. I'm just saying, "Go on. On the road to fine works. I'll refer this good bill to what it's like. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u83	A respectable president. What a pleasure it is that we are measuring for this bill for all those who suffer from disability! At the same time, the failure of long ago to legalize this necessary agreement is tremendously disappointing. We know that violence against disabled people is an ugly spot in Icelandic society and the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people will prevent violence, especially the violence that disabled women and even children have experienced. International studies show that disabled women are far more likely to be violent than other women. In spite of this and the serious violation of human rights, violence against disabled women is still hidden and invisible and rarely responded by the authorities. With the legal agreement of the United Nations on the affairs of disabled people, this must be addressed. Studies have shown that there has been an increase in violence against women and children in the Covid-19 pandemic as well in Iceland. In this country, governments have responded by using new technologies and developments on the Internet. We must prevent violence and see to it that it is done by law. National research reveals that disabled people are at special risk as victims of violence. Studies also show that people who are disabled are more likely to suffer violence than are those who are considered to be disloyal. In particular, young women who suffer from disability are likely to experience sexual abuse. National studies show that children with developmental impairment are 4.6 times more likely to be sexually abused than children who are not sexually active. What does this tell us? One manifestation of violence against disabled persons is that the United Nations has not legally established a UN agreement on the affairs of disabled people. Accuracy is essentially part of human life, and no one knows who will be next to a temporary or permanent disability of his life. People in Iceland are entitled to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People, and they will immediately be legalized. Why has the government not already established the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments, as agreed at the General Assembly two years ago? In this vital issue of the disabled, it is violent on the part of disabled persons to draw them up constantly. But the big thing is legal. It's the case, let's finish the legal process so that laws can be applied to the administration, and especially to the courts, to defend the human rights of disabled persons. There's no objection to this deal, but there's some built-in in error in the government to finish the case. Why? Let us take the step to the full, and then we can be proud that the Allied Council has made a great deal of legalizing the contract. The government has had plenty of time to finish the matter, and although many things are going on with it now, it can be done earlier. All you need is a political will. Men have drawn their feet because the contract had to be translated. It's over now. We have seen that the number of disabled persons in a nursing home is to be stopped. Such a case could not be accomplished if the United Nations Convention had been established. Or it would be impossible to cremate a disabled person and a desperate prowess that are not acceptable to him. It must make sure that the facilities of those who are disabled become acceptable to them. It can be demanded when the United Nations agreement for disabled individuals is established. The contract also includes regulations that would mean equalizing the value of disabled people and against discrimination. Especially, as I have said and repeated, we need to put our arms around disabled children. We need to take good care of all children, but disabled children are in a special danger. There's now the bioavailability issues. The bioavailability of the disabled is indistinguishable. Fortunately, there is a fight and they are going in the right direction. Sadly, there seems to be a degree of inadequacy, especially in public, state, and rural areas, and this is tragic. That it needs e.g. ............................................................................................... "Gr., it's unacceptable." 16th degree. it is the law of freedom from profit abuse, violence, and abuse. It tells us how vital this contract needs to be agreed. To live an independent life without separateness in society, shouldn't that be self-centered? Respect for home and family, education, freedom of expression, access to information, health, suitability and rehabilitation, work and work? This tells us in black that we need to handle these matters, and we need to do it right now. Therefore, I welcome this agreement, and I sincerely hope that it will be established right now. This is a small requirement, but a huge step for those who have to rely on a contract that will be legalized so that it can defend themselves and therefore may require the privilege of living a decent life like all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u84	A respectable president. Hv. Senators and a dear nation watching us live. My name is Tómas, who is called Tommi, and I'm in the Gang of the People, and we are concerned about the terms of the disabled. It comes unsupervised. In most cases, there is nothing more to do than to accept the opportunity to learn to live again. In a paper with a bill to legalize the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons, the President's permission includes: March 30, 2007, the contract signed right on its opening day. In general, the signing of international agreements is just a declaration of will, but validation includes a national commitment to meet the obligations and to ensure the rights of an international agreement. Immediately following the signing of the contract, there was a struggle to get the contract validated on the part of Iceland, and it's been going on ever since. Finally, in 2016, the Generals agreed to authorize the government to validate the agreement. It was then validated on December 6, 2016, and published in the Government Department on 29 June 2017. Here's three years worth noticing. In 2007, the contract is signed, and then after a nine - year battle, in 2016, the General finally agreed to authorize the government to validate the agreement. It is announced on June 29, 2017, of the Constitution. Five years ago, he has not yet been legalized. The will appears to be greater in word than on table. In fact, at the Council of 2019, a proposal was adopted to commit the government to prepare the legalisation of the agreed agreement and to submit a bill about December 13, 2020. In fact, completeness is mainly a statement, but I have to say that there is little will in the government to grant the disabled rights she claims to give them. Then, in May 2021, a new translation of the agreement adopted by the General Assembly was made. I say, isn't it time to complete the terms of the contract as monotonous at about 15 years after it was signed, because will it be of little importance if action is not followed? I'd like to say as we're doing in the movie Purple line with Prince, where the main character, girl, says, 'Are you going to do it or are you going to talk about it?' It is time to ensure the right protection that the disabled deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u85	A respectable president. My dear boy. Senators. I'd like to thank the adverbs and the people here who have spoken on those beautiful lines that, of course, are imported. They have been recommended by the very United Nations organization itself, where we have served as regular agents since 1947, the first Thor Thor Jensen of Free Church Road 11, the very ones who had a meaningful share in the establishment of the kingdom of Israel, along with those then ruling and praising. Iceland was studied and built in a spirit of love and community responsibility. So it was that the spirit in this region helped those in need, even though they had the machetes in the mid - 13th century and took over property and lands that led us to lose our independence to King Norway. But the help we receive is in our blood. It's in our genes, and we've taken some steps in that regard and can be proud of many things in our welfare system. However, this is a matter that we should have recently legalized and acknowledged that it is not appropriate for us to run the train on these European countries. What may have stepped up the matter - which first came into the council hall shortly before the collapse of the great 2008 - may be the economic commitment that is to legalize it once and for all, perhaps bioavailability, access to public buildings and places that the disabled will have to readily reach. Now, one wheelchair member, Haraldur Þorleifsson, who was wealthy by the spirit's outward appearance and forwardlines, has started a project that began in the past year that was to kick up Reykjavík. One hundred ramps were proclaimed, and the project was successful. Everyone wanted to be with, the minister of social affairs, the prime minister of Iceland, the mayor of Reykjavík, and a number of companies put their hands full on plow, and the 100 ribs had arrived and completed long before they were born. Then a new good news of 1,000 ramps was preached, and that assignment has begun. Iceland's high Council and its somewhat stable government funds have come up here with an unexpected help from one pioneers who has gathered for the very purpose of pitching up Iceland. 1,000 ramps across the country over the next few months, so this aspect of the matter should not be confined to anyone. Other financial commitments that may be left on the stick are not of the degree that one should be postponed. Now I'm just speaking directly of the instinct that God gave me and the one, let's say, a feeling I have, that as soon as we wish the intense and heartfelt desire that this ultimate and legalization will take place, it will tell me so much that it will be left to walk during this ideal period with success and then in the first part of it rather than the second. May that wish come true and bring joy and honor to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u86	President. In 1st. the law on the control of fishing says: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. This bill makes largely material changes on 6. a and 24. The law. Section 6. a should be used as follows: In accordance with the requirements of this article, Iceland's instruments are being fished at home. These laws present such fishing as sea fishing. The product of coastal fishing is not calculated as a catch target or as a hook point for their ships as they hunt. It is only permitted to start coastal fishing after the first registration of a fishing vessel at Fishing Room. A fishing lab is only allowed to record seaships that meet the requirements of Article 5. And it is lawful only to record every work, owner, individual, or attorney, and one fishing vessel for the sea. The owner of a fishing vessel shall be registered on the ship. After headlining for coastal fishing, ships are forbidden to move from the source of the year beyond what has been transferred to the ship. Enrollment to coastal fishing according to this article is subject to the following conditions: 1st The fish ship's fishing application room should be made according to the rules established by the minister. 2. No one can get more than four hand rolls on a fishing ship. No fishing instruments other than hand rolls shall be on board. 3. In the end of every voyage, all fish are reported to be at the end of the country, and shall be weighed, and written for ever upon the land. The terms of weight loss, registration and treatment are otherwise covered by the rules of the law No. 57/1996, on the contacts of marine crops, and on the requirements of local regulations. The legal requirements for the patient's use are No. 37/1992 for a specific price due to a non-sanctionable marine level. Then, see paragraph 24. phrases like: The World Health Organization shall give reminders and eliminate ships for commercial fishing or permission for the amendment of marine vegetation, or any incident or ban the fishing of ships registered for coastal fishing, for violations of these or rules set according to the more detailed guidelines in the legislation on marine crops. If a hunting period is completed prior to the launch of the next fishing permit, or a fishing season ends before the loss of any waste time, the decision to allow detriment should apply to the publication of the next fishing license, or after an incident in the next fishing year. The Council of Fishing Office's decision for reminders and hunting authorization will be sent to the Ministry, as this is done within one month of the announcement of the party's decision. Dearest will not delay the right effects of a decision. This case is now reassigned. Its aim is to provide hand-fishing with Icelanders free to improve coastal conditions and to take into account economic views and environmental factors. The fishing and safety of sailors are also looked forward to. As in the current law, these fishing are called beach fishing. Coastal fishing is environmentally friendly and treats the bottom of the ocean. They provide individuals throughout the country with opportunities to do business and to strengthen their country's settlements. The present arrangement, however, is unduly burdensome and indiscriminate. This inhibits the growth of the article and prevents coastal fishing from prospering. Sadly, the coastal fishing has proved its value for employment in the regions of the country as a sustainable, eco-friendly fishing industry, which has embezzled the country's life and contributed to a positive community development. Especially since the beginning have there been dissatisfaction with the effects of coastal shifts and the lack of equalitarian order in the implementation of these fish. The current implementation of the coastal fishing system and the use of areas and markets creates pressure on coastal fishermen to fish at all levels and has been warned of the potential dangers. Coastal fishing has been changed over the years to meet these dissatisfaction efforts, but, in the opinion of a carrier, the goals for safe fishing have not yet been met. With free coastal fishing, a burdensome program is lifted from the article, everyone's equality is assured, the pressure to go fishing in grueling storms, and the basis for the permanent growth of flowering microbes. Six. a Current legislation is placed great limits on fishing ships and fishing projects. First, a permit from the Fish Room is needed for a beach hunt and only within the quantity decided by a minister. The tickets are then divided into four areas that share the quantity of fish and can stop fishing once the catch is reached. The ships, as well as their land, are also confined to one area of fish each year and are registered by ships to the area of the home of the fishing industry. Coastal fishing is under ban on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. Each fishing trip must be no longer than 14 hours, a voyage must be reported, and only four hand rolls on board. At the same time, each ship's fishing journey is tied to 650 pounds [650 kg] of commercial species. This bill is aimed at simplifying these rules substantially, without such factors affecting the safety of sailors or the negative effects on crops. First, coastal fishing is given free according to certain conditions. The process is simplified and lost from land division. A limited number of four hand rolls on each ship will limit the size of ships and the volume of fish every year. The approach is based on the limit of the volumes as well as on the date and time of the year of fishing. In view of the general power of coastal fishing in 2009, there have been typically 21.74% of total fleets within each year of fishing, free coastal fishing is not expected to have a significant impact on the stock size of fish species on Iceland's coasts. In addition to this, it may be noted that at present the news system has been overwritten with Edro's advice. The problem is there in the current macroeorth system, not in coastal fishing. They're cutting down that share now of some 1,500 tons. In recent years, 2017 and 2018, there were 15,000 tons, ten times as much as they are being cut down today to coastal fishing, 12,000 tons 2015/2016, 7,000, 12,000, 17,000, always around 10,000 tons or as recommended by the Cape. That's very interesting. Coastal fishing restrictions will be much less with this bill than with the current legislation. The report to Fish Room stays the same, and only four hand rolls will be allowed on board each ship. The rules for the maximum resources of each fishing trip and the length of a fishing trip are canceled, as well as the provision for coastal fishing to be allowed only from May 1 to August 31. If so, it would be preferable not to limit total resources over the year. The sailors, if the bill is approved, will not have to compete to achieve their share in all weathers. It is believed that the reduction of these limits will reduce the impulse to sail into the double weather and thus increase the safety of sailors. It is interesting to examine the trend on the coastal fishing system in recent years. By 2020, there were 10,000 tons, 10,753, and when the system was installed, it was then 5,000 tons. It has diminished and is now down to 8,500 tons at the recommendation of a minister, approximately The same as 2016. This is an enormous impairment, and the hope of a switcher's start is very strange, you might say. If your priorities were correct, there would have been the first priority, on the ground course, and it would actually be the first priority. The rest would then be possible if people would like to have what is found in coastal fishing within that section. This bill, however, does not expect to be expected, since, in the opinion of the carriers and those who are tested in these studies, self-sustained, they simply bite which are hungry, and there is then a particular gauze rather than a possibility of overfishing. A report by the National Institute of Oceanographic Research, published last year, explains that there are two kinds of codfish in Iceland, shallow codfish, and deep cryptic. It says, by permission of the president: It has not been discussed with the creation of species of cod and may be a key factor in environmental tensions and the tolerability of the strain in environmental change. Female areas are found all around the country, and some years can contribute to less spawning areas, which are likely to explain stability in the recent development of the cod population. In addition to separate spawning areas, the cod in Iceland has been divided into two groups; shallow cod and deep-dried, showing different behaviours and distributions during the feeding season. The genotypes Pan I AA have been shown to identify basic cods that stay on the ground for the year around the year to be caught - this is what the Coastal Fish are catching - the Pan I BB genotype - the symptoms of deep-water cods that look for deeper waters and heat to feed. However, about half of Icelandic spawning servers are heterozygous for the Pan gene (Pan I AB), showing this group a multi-channel diet (both deep and shallow) than homozygous fish. It has been suggested that the proportion of fish landers could thus be favourable in the fluffy environment of the cod. This is something that needs to be taken into account when considering, and we're here just talking about codskins, a catchmark, a quota for cod, which has different distributions. It's not the same stock being caught out of, but it's still in the same pot. In fact, you might even take the big-shot shell with, the tugs, and so on and say it's quite itself, it's in one of the stocks, pushing them out by 12 miles, at least If you're going to catch something that's in that dinner, you're going out 12 miles before you even begin. Also, some aspects of the environmental effects of the tug need to be considered, and perhaps just get rid of them altogether. It's not a complicated bill after all. The last thing I'd like to mention is the catch fee, one by one. It's always the big question, what we get for our resources and our resources. I did so during my last term that I simply asked: " What has been the cost of the State been to run the various institutions responsible for the oversight and oversight of our fishing resources? There is a Oceanographic Institute, Matis, Fish Room, Price Service, a global partnership, an office of fishing management, MAST, and the National Public Protection Agency. The total content of this total total volume is about 5 to 6 billion, even more than 6 billion, 6.5 billion in 2020. And in 2020, we receive 4.8 billion in hunting expenses. It is the loss of 1.2 billion that we are, in fact, all out here, all of us, 18 properly speaking, paying to these institutions that care for the marine resources for the breakthrough. Each one pays 5,000 bucks for this. It's a year. On average, it will swing to how much hunting costs are. On average, we've received approximately 500 million. K. year after year. Here's something important to realize that the price of hunting is calculated to allow it to take a catch value, which can be within the prices of the exchange room which is below the price of 75% of the total price, so it's a means of making a move at the cost that goes there, which is a firm cheating on the catch price. But after the entire cost of the project, pay, and all, the losses of ships, and I don't know what and what, there is a set calculus, part of the fishing fee. It's the rest of the money. One third, 33%, will be left behind. After all the cost, the design will keep two thirds of it. This is of undeveloped cod so that we can then process it, there will be an increase of value which is only in the normal company environment and it will be paid a normal tax of etc. But this is about the access to the resource. This is how the trade of access to the resource is divided: one third to the State, two third to the development. But - and this is huge but the state will pay all its expenses for this one third person it receives. It's for expenses, not at the expense. It would be more righteous to assume that the cost of the State would be calculated before the change is replaced, exactly as it is allowed to be done. But this is not done. That, according to the last complete information we have by 2020, is that we paid, every human child here at a working age, 5,000 bucks. ... withthesupply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u87	Honorable President, what. A world of Congress and the nation watching. I welcome this bill of Pirata. I was thinking while I was listening to a talk. The senator says the Boy Scouts once a Boy Scout, always a Boy Scout. We in the restaurant business say, "One time, a caterer, always a caterer." So say the sailors: Once a sailor, always a sailor. I lived in Grindavík, in 1974,1977, and met the building environment. When I was 17 years old, I was on top of the world's mountain Þormóður, Goði, and I went to the Viking room in both fur and cod fishing in 1980, if I remember correctly, so it's very dear to me for the seamen's environment. The figures that come out on the bill anyway. A senator is so unfair to the beach fishermen. If there's 2% of the total they're allowed to hunt, what's going on? Coastal fishing keeps many small settlements out of the country. It would be a shame to drive all the people into town. Those men who are in the ocean love the water, and it's not fair not to let them catch, I'm saying I'm just saying, unlimited because it's not that much they're fishing - whether it's 2% or 4%. This exchange of hunting costs - I agree that it would be most reasonable to calculate the cost first and then there would be one third for the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u88	President. This is so much basic because in all industry access to recruits must be ensured. In this business it definitely is that system. This may begin at a small expense, small output, and perhaps work out with some others in steps, but the other system, which may be working up into, is extremely closed, in fact, the wall of very few more than legal sources and so on, and we see how the integration has affected subsidies around the country. Moving goodbyes between townsmates has had a tremendous effect. It is simply a political decision to make it that way. There's nothing more complicated than that. This is the result of decisions made in this hall, and since this has not been changed, it must be the consequences of the government's will, I don't see any other chance in it, simply want it to happen. Do they go to various towns and say that they want to get out of there and that the people there just have to work out differently? No, they don't say that out loud. However, this does occur, and it does not respond to it. That would be at least gives people the opportunity to work independently in this business, regardless of the effect of this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-02-32.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for a detailed review of this fine bill. There has been the direction of the Stockholm people from the beginning, I think, of course, of free hand hunting in Iceland and of course. paritaprevir The Ármannsson man's coat has a bill that has a lot to do with what is involved here, so we share the key emphasis here. I personally believe that we should show the respect that has been used here since the beginning of the construction of Iceland, i.e. the commercial sector, the food production in agriculture, and the fishing industry. It is beautiful, and we can be proud of it. We're here to protect them. They are part of the attraction we believe to be a good year for millions of tourists who come here and choose to study land and nation. I think we should be able to agree that there is no danger of hand hunting. There is no danger to the living environment around Iceland from hand fishing. It is literally sad to see how many settlements have fallen victim to the 1984 economy and then developed toward what is described in some respects on Sunday TV, in the World Book, how hard - working and ideal biscuits were to climb the quatane and clean up here. At the same time, a variety of TVs were basically destroyed by what had been before. I mention Hafnarfjordur as one of the many victims of the course that has been followed. How does such a course come about? We know well in this house that there is a tremendous spot on stakeholders, those who have the potential, energy and capital, searching for PR companies, public stakes, and such. And if the procrastination persists and the situation is right, they can become laws, even faster and faster than anyone suspected. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is he in agreement with what I've said, that the organisms around Iceland and the institutions that are, of course, very hard to deal with, the big ones of the world can't be any danger from our tyrians and the handicrafts involved here? Is that not clear? I'm asking.
