ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u1	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party that Birgir Þórarinsson, 9th. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. A letter has also been received from Bjarni Jónsson, 4th. Northwestern district, saying he's not going to be able to attend a meeting in the near future. Today, therefore, at General 1 United States Council, a deputy of the Central Party, Erna Bjarnadóttir, and 1st, reserver of the left movement's list of green bids in the Northwestern district, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir. Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has once sat at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u2	Erna Bjarnadóttir letter has been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place before in the Council and is therefore under oath to the Constitution. Erna Bjarnadóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u3	The President has received a letter from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 488 on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Þóri Þórsdóttir, and on the icicle. 603 on the transfer to Ukraine, from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Minister of Justice, where request is made to provide a written answer to a U.S. Senate inquiry on 692 about legal expressions from Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir. There have been letters from the Ministry of Education and Children requesting every time to give a written answer to a U.S. Congress hearing of the State's Court's Court's Court of Ministers for the State's State's State's Office of Ministers, from Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, and a petition to the U.S. Congress on the 787 Governments, Committees, Committees and Councils, and the like, from Gísladóttir Jana. Finally, letters from the social and workforcer have been received on request every request to provide written answers to panel requests. 570 on the operation against labor sites, from the cold - Kolbrún Baldursdóttir Berry, to the threshing floor. 432 and 433 on the united hosting of refugees and the estimated increase in cost of refugees, from Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason, on deck. 337 on the recognition of cross-border diagnosis and involvement. 543 on the ministry's responsibility for violence and its consequences, both of Andrés Ingi Jónsson and of the suit. 675 on the ART period of observatory, from Ingibjörg Isaksen. Social and workforce editors have also requested deadlines to provide written answers to the following requests from Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir: Átsk. 583 on charges to the J.A. decision-making committee on the state's SEC, on deck. 680 on charges to the NTSB of Correctional Affairs due to the dean's decision of a credit agent, mayonnaise. 681 on the charges of the J.A. decision-making committee for the dean's decision of a debtor. 682 on charges relating to the decision to demonstrate financial support to pay insurance for bankruptcy costs, parley. 698 on charges to the health committee on the decision to pay the parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children. 699 on charges to the social ruling committee due to birth and parental revulsion, etc. Seven hundred on charges to the Health Commission on the decisions of Iceland's Medical Insurance, etc. 701 on charges to the J.A. decision-making committee for the Children's Protection Authority decision, sir. 702 of the charges to the health committee on housing matters, please. 703 on charges to the J.A. decision-making committee on the decisions of the labour oce and finally on the deck. 704 on charges to the J.A. decision-making committee for members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u4	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Congress puts on. Do they want a vote? The vote will then be given as soon as a vote for a report request here followed by unsubstantiated queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u5	A respectable president. For several weeks, society has been at one end because of the government's bank sales. Last week, the government's opposition requested that an assembly meet sooner from the Passover permit to discuss this than the highest. The prime minister considered no reason to shorten the license of the State or Congress. At noon on Wednesday last week, the request was made to the highest level. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of the business and the highest. Secretary of finance, would be here to have a word with a body of Congress on the bank sales, where these three Ministers are on the Minister's Committee on Economics and the future of financial companies. This has repeatedly been denied by the highest authority. President. He denys that a body of Congress can find a place to speak with these three ministers here under a different but unsupervised inquiry, which is, of course, extremely limited. The nature of the matter must be discussed with all three ministers. All of them have expressed themselves about what took place in the leading man. They share responsibility for this. [[The president calls.]] Prime Minister is prime minister, so it is reasonable that we can request a report from all three advisers or at least that they come here to discuss the report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u6	President. I'm sorry to come up here to talk about how far-reaching communication the government has had with the President has been for the weekend. It was the sincere wish of the government opposition that we would have a good conversation with the three Ministers on the Committee for Economic Affairs, all of whom have come to decisions and are expected to appear before the council and account for their views when it comes to these bank sales. It was denied. Now, a special discussion by Pirata, which was supposed to be today, has been canceled. In turn, a verbal report by a minister of finance, which is good and proper, has been made very necessary. I understand that Prime Minister is hoping to meet Pirata's request for a special discussion. I'm glad you're here. But, of course, all three of the Ministers should come here and report to the council orally, so we can have a serious discussion on this huge matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u7	The president would like to say that there have been some communication in preparation for Congress today. The president has drawn this out of the fact that there was a time to discuss the issues that were emphasized by the government of the anti - anti - anti - Christians, although he tried to keep it so that it was within the framework of the council. The conclusion is that this will be a verbal report in which the terms of engagement and the speaking time and the possibility of members of the council to express themselves in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u8	Mr. President. It is absolutely essential that the council be consulted with these three ministerial ministers. They have simply been too lost on these things. V.E.G. The minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir has criticized this and said he had warned. V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that all of this was in harmony with the book and the highest authority. In an interview, a prime minister says that she may have expected things to go differently. However, they can come to a common conclusion, the directors of the board of directors, that it was such a goal that there was reason to put the bank office down. But asked for the position of the highest. Secretary of the budget says it's the highest. Prime Minister that there must be an investigation waiting until some of these matters. They seem to be able to pass judgment on some things. We need those people in our homes, and we need to have a word with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u9	Mr. President. I just want to agree with the importance of being allowed to have a word with the Minister of Ministers on the Economic Affairs and the Reorganization of the financial system. On the board of directors' website it says about a committee, with permission of the president: Then it is also designed to be a groundwork of consultation and harmony with the restitution of the financial system, in line with the emphasis of the government's covenant that a wide deal of agreements on the restructuring of the financial system in Iceland. A series of ministers there are prime minister, financial and economic minister and educational and cultural minister, who are expected to be updated. But it says they have a permanent position on the committee. That is, of course, the requirement for members of Congress, and I beg the highest. In part, the president and I of Parliaments have a chance to have a direct word with the three members of the committee who sit outside the form we call unsupervised inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u10	Mr. President. I want to say first, I trust the highest. The president of this council was completely organized here at a council meeting, but he came up here primarily to reiterate that, apart from being in charge here today, the president of the Senate contacted me this morning and told me that I was expecting a request from which I was due. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen as to the factors under the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and District Discussion. I don't know exactly what the request will be like, but I have informed the senator that I will gladly take that discussion either tomorrow or the other depending on what is convenient because I have a clear understanding that the members of Congress would like to have a word with me on this matter and, of course, will be on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u11	A respectable president. Of course we do. We have to roll all the stones on this case, and of course, it's true that the three ministers who have been called. Somehow, I have this feeling as I watch this bank sale that the government brought the roulette: Buy those who will, sell those who sell will, me and the government without cause, as long as it's friends, family and former bankers. If there is no need for study, and if this is not to be done on the surface and to discuss it well and carefully this week, then there is something wrong. They're hiding something. I can't believe it, and I can hear it from the current prime minister that she's ready to take the discussion. As a result, I hope that we will have the needed discussion this week on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u12	A respectable president. I'm glad I'm at the top. The prime minister has given a positive answer to this special discussion tomorrow in order to discuss this unprecedented matter. This was requested on the afternoon of Friday, so we are in this position right now to be a little bit sharp about her absence. But I'm glad to hear that she's going to be here tomorrow. I'd also like to use this opportunity to remind other ministers in the Iceland government that they're also senators, so they can participate here in the discussion, and I challenge them to participate in the discussion. V.E.G. A food minister has also expressed himself about this bank sale and has said nothing of a mess. It would be nice to have her stand today. The word is free today. All members may participate, ten minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second round, answer allowed, so I'm expecting lively discussions here today, and encouraging all members of Congress, government and government, to let their light shine as well as those who are temporarily serving the minister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u13	A respectable president. I showed up on the East Field Saturday. People had a lot of heat and excellent speakers. I want to thank Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for his bold speech. I stand here as one of the many of the shifts 14 years ago in the East, and along with other good people, I faced civil meetings in the University and other schools. I feel that sales of Iceland banks blow up memories of the collapse, and people just feel bad. Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir gave an emotional talk in the East in memory of her father, who lost everything in the collapse. Many people feel that way. It simply feels that it is being betrayed. It is the same party that comes back to the meat pots and plays a part in the collapse, causing people to be troubled. According to polls, 80% of the people don't want to sell Iceland banks, and it's no wonder people are angry. We have to listen to the people of the country and take a look at these sales, appointing the Allied Research Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u14	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with this, of course, and I just want to explain why this is important. For one thing, the decision to take down the Bank Office is taken at Easter in some kind of shelter and where ministers could not be reached for long. Of course, we all know the aftereffects. This has been very critical. Those who behave in this way and those who speak at the same time are able to go to work to review this debt, of course, a group of more detailed information than can be given here for a brief period of inquiry or short - term interviews in the media. Intermediate communication with members of Congress is a minimum requirement. I hear the highest. The prime minister will be here tomorrow, and I would like to suggest that there will be a period of discussion that will be given as much space as the rules allow. Then there must be also the ultimate requirement. A similar report is given to the council by the secretary of business, or it will account for its stand, which indeed brought the Passover to its attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u15	President. I find it enjoyable, such as it's a verbal report by the secretary of finance today, given a good time for everyone to participate in the discussion, and I encourage people to take advantage of their rights and opportunities. I'm also happy to be the highest. The prime minister agrees to have a special discussion, which is now in short form, where members of Congress receive only two minutes for comment, the arrangement could be extended beyond that. It's just that there's something left, like what's wrong. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson said, the Minister of Culture and Business, who is the last Minister of the Ministerial Committee on Economics missing into the program of the week. How beneficial it would be if a dignified president would inform us whether he will exist this week, i.e. to be discussed also with the highest. The Minister of Culture and Business, which sees and sees on international employment investments and registration of real owners.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u16	The President can inform us that after the talk is followed by a verbal report by the secretary of finance here today, the president will have a meeting with members of the council to review the rest of the program this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u17	Mr. President. I'm gonna talk like that. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. It is the last minister of the Ministerial Committee that has been referred to here on economic issues and the restructuring of the financial system, the highest. Minister of Culture and Business, Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir. I'd like to direct it to the highest. It will be discussed, of course, at this meeting mentioned here to take place with members of the council at the end of the day. Minister of Culture and Business, Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, come here and speak with us members of Congress as third secretary of this committee. At the same time, I welcome the highest. The prime minister has informed us that a minister will arrange a conversation with members of the council tomorrow under the hat of a special discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u18	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen mentioned here that the government had a far cry of communication with the smaller parts. I just want to point out that the government has also had advanced communication between its members. It is clear that there is some disagreement on this issue in the government, and there are some things that need to be explained about the position of the government itself. I think it is clear what game to play to solve this case on the part of the government. It is the same game that is often played, which is that ministers take responsibility for anything that does not hear directly under their department. However, this is not the case with the highest degree. The prime minister can do this. V.E.G. Prime Minister is presiding over this government. That's even. that's why we've been calling after talk at the highest level. Prime Minister on the matter. V.E.G. The prime minister has come up here and said that he will, of course, be on request for participation, but we know that he will be on some very tight ground. It's not like this. It's not like this thing works. [[The president calls.]] We call it an opportunity to talk to the highest. Prime Minister as the prime minister of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u19	A respectable president. If there is something we should have learned, it is that we need to build trust in society. There is no trust in society for e.g. This bank sale now. There is also no confidence in the lack of proper research report by ordering the General Commission, and I'm just going to mention the SEC, which I'm going to mean that people have little or no confidence in. All they need to do is mention their many decisions before failure and how they approved their illegal loans, and I don't know what else. They have not shown anything to be learned from it after a crash and, in fact, they are in no way used except for them - they are like shell companies for financial companies. I ask the government to stop this middlehand game and go straight to a full research report so that trust can be developed in this society of absolute zeros.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u20	Mr. President. Perhaps just beginning with a happy summer to congratulate people, it's fun to be seen in a new season, though we may be a little singing the same song. But this is also because governments do not plan for a time of year. That's what the Supreme One said. Of course, the prime minister would not pray about coming to the Hall and representing her court. But that's no doubt, Mr. President. They asked for such a meeting on Wednesday last week. It was requested on Wednesday that these ministers show up here in the hall, and preferably take a new day under it, Friday, in order to discuss these matters with good nothing. It was not agreed. There was nothing for this day's schedule, let alone this week until 10:00 this morning. There's nothing for that, I'm sure. Since the last five days have been marked by means of means of avoidance, the prime minister attend the hall and answer for the sale of the State in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It is not until now, after five days, of the government's efforts to get ministers in the house, that is, of course, all of a sudden. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u21	A respectable president. If it's not our time to start talking to the Minister of Bank Selling, despite the fact that every senator after him is coming in here in a pita and declaring a big interest in it, I wanted to encourage him. Councilmen to respect the time limit for talks, especially those who preach to others, to respect the rules. Just like this in the day. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u22	A respectable president. I feel that I have to excuse myself, in case I call, after a word. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. But, of course, we are here in this conversation today because of what the government has shown us. She rejected the claim that the council would meet earlier because of a bank sale that is 83% incompatible with 83% of the nation. By then she had not answered the press inquiry for about a week. The bank board finds the tone the government's hits and doesn't come to a meeting with the Gaming Committee today. The government referred to the need to reflect on each stone, told them on an Easter holiday, but the matter here at the Senate Hall concluded that all proposals for an investigation of this matter should be rejected. We are in this hall today to discuss this, not because we have a time limit problem, but because we have problems with the way the government is ruling. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u23	A respectable president. It is all true and true to what was said to the above, that this was and is a rich will to roll with every stone, so to speak, once again. [[Up front.]] However, there is no denying that people want to answer things. Here was a request for a meeting this morning for the highest level. The prime minister would be present for a discussion, and this was done immediately. There is another specific request that can be offered because of the highest quality. If it is to be divided, the minister of culture and commerce, but it will only have to do those requests and bring them out. It's definitely a matter of course, as the prime minister says.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u24	President. I just have to come up here. The reason why the communication that has happened this weekend is farfetched is just because of words. paritaprevir Orri, son of Páll, the son of Jóhannsson, who came before me. We had prayed all weekend for prime minister to come, that was a very clear request. I'm sure we thought the leader of this government and the leader of the Minister's Committee on Economics would come here and file a verbal report, so did we. We did not necessarily ask for a verbal report of the minister of finance. Piras had special discussions with the secretary of finance, the Central Party on Friday too. We wanted a verbal report by the Prime Minister, that was the request of the opposition, not the verbal report of the minister of finance. It was rejected by absurd excuses and some vocabulary, and I don't know what, shapes and traditions, and things like things I've heard a million times since I entered the council. It couldn't be done. The prime minister was obviously under cover. But she has made a point of making a special discussion, which is much shorter discussions, using proben, which she has responded to, and I welcome it. [[The president calls.]] But please don't come up here and say that we haven't asked for this before, we just didn't get an answer till this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u25	Mr. President. I'm here for a word, too. paritaprevir Orri, son of Páll Jóhannsson. There's a phase difference between reporting talk and special discussion. Of course, it is a cause for rejoicing. The prime minister will attend this special discussion tomorrow. The discussion today, however, is quite different. There the senators are granted permission to speak for ten minutes and then five minutes. There will be allowed answers. This also applies to the highest. Prime Minister, so I laugh just to encourage the highest. Prime Minister to participate in the report afterward. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u26	A respectable president. There's never been a firm, gawked at the top. Secretary of the budget up ahead of you. paritaprevir The Sigmur Guðmundsson when he mentioned the demolition of the Bank County. Then the Minister jumped out of the council hall. I'm just going to read from an announcement published at Control's Sleeps last week: So the government has decided to propose to the Council that the State's Bank Office will be put down...-◯ By the time that this declaration appeared, a government meeting had not been held for 10, 11 days, so we have, for example, a government meeting. An demand to know when it was decided, what government meeting, and if - yes, it will. [[Up front.]] In fact, it says: "When there is a new law... -- as if they've already decided that this is the decision by the General. But all of this may well explain why we need to have a conversation here with all the government officials who have expressed themselves on this matter and with the stewards who are on the Committee on Economic Affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u27	A respectable president. I think it's very important that the entire government participates in these discussions. It is obvious that the present government, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, failed the country's trust with the sale of Iceland Bank in March. 83% of the people consider this to be so. There is no way to say that the sales in Iceland Bank in March have succeeded in part and that it is legal. I find it boring to be here as a senator and to have to insist that something is illegal when it comes to courts, but it is so obvious that the law established by the Allied Council of Iceland following the collapse in 2012 was violated, almost all the principles presented there. It is the government's responsibility, for which the secretary of finance is responsible, for which the Bank Office is responsible. The conduct of the Bank Office with the budget board where I'm sitting is quite different. This is about the respect of the council and the National Assembly of Iceland must be able to build a real banking system. [[The president calls.]] We have not been able to do that as an independent nation. Today, we face challenges to the consequences of this trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u28	President. V.E.G. A minister of finance insists that it is the General Assembly to determine whether the Bank Office is laid down or not, and there is certainly a vote at a Assembly Hall, which includes. Ministers are involved, whether or not. But there is now an arrangement here, so it's the government that sets the course. The government groups decide what to contribute to the council and try to convince the council what is a good idea and what is not. It's the government's decision to shut down the Banks. That's her idea. Then, whether it is going to work out is a completely different matter, but this is what the government has decided - or what? Was there a government meeting? We don't know, probably not, but it was those three leaders who made this decision. That's a decision. What the Parliament later does with his votes is another matter, after it is reviewed, over the matter, and so on. Still, we are talking about a decision made by government leaders. [[The president calls.]] If the highest. The secretary of finance would be happy to stop this phrase if it were welcome. [[The point is, it doesn't have a word code.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u29	Today, on Monday, April 25, a letter was received by the chairman of Pirata, Halldóra Mogensen, that Thorld Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "Be absent in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district district, Sjöfn Sjön Helgadóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u30	The president wants to guess about an unprepared question period that may last longer than the Senate allows for up to six inquiries. To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Food Ministers, Environment, Energy and Climate Ministers, Education and Children's Ministers, Social and Employment Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u31	Mr. President. In an explosion last night, the highest power said. Secretary of finance that nothing had happened in Iceland's sales career. It would have been totally predictable that some people would be selling back in profit right away. It's the highest. The prime minister agrees? Was this to be expected? Why, then, was the call so done on the basis of few long - term investors? There are other questions that arise. Has the highest. The Minister of Economic Affairs, in agreement with the Bank Commission, went over the bids and agreed to sell the assets of the government that some were close to him, others who will late be said to meet the requirements for the trust and qualities required of the bank owners, and still other buyers were employees who were themselves to sell but used the opportunity to profit themselves. Those handmade people who were allowed to buy a closed tender at a discount sold their share of money to many new ones. If the secretary of finance has not worked in accordance with the above laws, and nothing is monitoring this trade process, it is an neglect that is against the laws of Ministers responsible. That's the question, Mr. President, which I would like to direct to the highest. Prime Minister: If financial minister has actively participated in this process, he will have at least Condemned of violations of ethics and crassyness, which would be a complaint in all the countries around us. However, if financial secretary has not been active in this process, he is guilty of neglect of his duties. The question is, Is he guilty of corruption or neglect?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u32	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks this question in the interpretation of the law on the bank administration and on the other hand, about the handling of the government's holdings in financial companies where the Commission is legally committed to the implementation of the sale. It has been discussed whether it really means the highest level. Secretary of finance must cross every offer, that's what it is. A senator is here asking about, agreeing or turning down each offer. According to the information I have, I got the highest. Legal secretary of the law under short-term evaluation from the Bankisle at the end of the tender date of the tender tender date with information on the final tenders and distributions of the Agency's final tenders and contributions, including that the head of the Agency is authorized to sign on behalf of the state's appropriate addition to the sale agreement and to issue a post-office of business funds in order to complete the sales process. That very same night, the proposal was agreed on by the highest level. Secretary of reply. There's a 4th quote. track No. 155/2012, which says that the Bank Office is looking for a property share on behalf of the government in accordance with the Minister's decision. When an offer to property is established, the Department of Banks shall provide the minister with the logical assessment of them. So a minister will decide whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract. It has not been a State interpretation that this means that a minister must review individual parties' proposals to select and refuse and will likely work against the purpose of the process intended to have the process in an independent institution. We can look back at the first section when 24,000 people bought at the bank. Is it people's opinion that a minister should have agreed on each of the 24,000 offers? That question didn't arise. Then it's a question of whether this is really not a matter of the granting of this final sale to the Minister of Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u33	Mr. President. I wasn't necessarily talking about the highest. The secretary of finance should have dived into each unique social security number. V.E.G. The prime minister himself has said that the sales were not in harmony with the expectations of long - term investments. It was discovered that there were more than 200 offers that were approved and that the alarm bells should immediately have been turned on, not to mention, the absence of long - term investments. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has claimed that he did not consider the matter. Is it not, then, an neglect of the Minister to study at least not whether the basic route was followed before signing out the message?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u34	Mr. President. There were conditions set out in the data of the case that were presented both to the Council and to the Ministry on Economics, which required that qualified investors be the members of this campaign. These definitions are found in the law. One of the factors to consider today is whether these conditions have been met in all cases. Hv. A senator asks: Was a minister to review it and, in fact, to find out in each case whether these parties met the requirements? [[Up front.]] Probably it's Bank County's job -- No, okay. [[Up front.]] Likely it is the responsibility of the government's banking agency to ensure that and to the sales advisers hired by the Bank Board to do this, that the requirements of the law are met and the description being followed. And because of what? A senator quotes my comments that this has not come up with my expectations, and I just keep it perfectly. I had hoped that the increased transparency would be assured of this. I had hoped that this list of buyers would be revealed, and I was surprised when the Bank Office rejected it. [[The president calls.]] I felt that I could not measure up to the rules we put in 2012 that transparency is one of the main reasons in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u35	President. I'll be right back where I can go. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson quit. 14 years ago, there was an economic breakdown here, a economic breakdown resulting from a poisonous cocktail of Icelandic business and political life, which we thought we had left behind permanently. After the collapse, with the state's sudden possession of all the banks, we passed a law on selling financial assets to the State, while the purpose was to set fixed frames on how the government's holdings were to be handled. The law recommends the clear legal and political responsibility of a minister of the trade process, that a minister of finance is obliged to examine and accept all proposals for financial property. This law is not there without reason. The prime minister knows this, and she was in the government that composed and adopted these laws in 2012. There is no question that the interpretation is somehow different from the obvious spirit of the law. The report on the bill says that the Minister should not examine all the offers in general outlets. It's right there. There's nothing to do with it. But this does not apply to closed invitations. There, a minister must cross and evaluate the proposals. I don't understand the highest. Prime Minister is really taking the Polish one to the hill to justify this, I don't know what, some bullshit. The decision is to prevent financial ministers from selling banks to their father. That is exactly why this law, to prevent it, but it failed. An announcement from the Ministry of Economic Affairs of April 8 says that information on offer or offer has never been offered to a financial minister, which means that he did not consider the proposals that he had a legal obligation to consider. This is just over 200 dollars. We're not talking about thousands, as they're trying to confuse the discussion. My question to the highest. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u36	Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u37	- Well, it was supposed to be a inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u38	Now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u39	It's some kind of confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u40	I reported there was a question at the highest level. Secretary of the budget, according to local Parliamentary Office information. If you have the highest request. Prime Minister, we must try to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u41	Sure. I can repeat the inquiry if there's a beep for it. It's no big deal. - I had a question written down that I'm not going to ask. I'm just gonna ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is she okay with this? And that's a real reaction to the highest. The prime minister would hide behind the fact that it was not the spirit of the law that a minister of finance takes responsibility and would sign and examine the proposals before he did so?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u42	Mr. President. Hv. A senator wants to know if it's okay with me. I can only quote the data that I have under my control, and really lie down about this matter. After launching the report, a minister should assign the administration of the sale site to the bank administration agency in the manner required for the sale process. So the banking board is the sales manager for the government. It should be prepared for sale, looking for oers, evaluating oers, handling negotiations with external advisers and prospective buyers, and handling negotiations. Visitors are not expected to arrive after they have committed the administration of the government's bank office until it is time to agree to the sale and signing of agreements. That's when the government's banking department gives you this logical assessment. It is so that responsible action groups between the Ministry and the State's Bankislation under the law are not expected to interfere with the sale therapy after they have committed the sale of the property to the bank office of the State. Thus, there is a very clear distinction between Ministers at any given time and bank administration. Then we can have a view of whether the process met the viewpoints proposed in a report. Then I am here to witness when it comes to definition of qualified investors and such. This is for inspection and investigation. Because of what? A senator asks, I think it's okay. I think it's very important that all of these matters are on the table and that we examine them fully, that they are fully examined. That's why two members, State Reconnaissance and the Club, are taking this case into consideration because we all want it to be okay. But passing sentence on this from the law, that I will not do until these findings are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u43	The president would like to suggest that the conference office was in the belief after contact with Porta's council that the inquiry was directed to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u44	Madam President. That was certainly a very unprepared inquiry. I apologize if there was a confusion of it and thank the Minister for dealing with it this way. But I would like to begin with Barena, Bjarni of Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, into the commercial world that is so extensive and complex that he must have known who he would find on his list of offers. It just has to be. He must have known that he would find old acquaintances, even relatives, on the list and that if he had fully studied the proposals, he might have been unable to make a decision to accept or reject the offer. His only way out was to hold his nose, sign his cover, and hope for the best. At least that's how I see it. The independent group is, for example, the avatar of the poisonous cocktail. The independent party was the bartender who shook the whole thing. Left greens once agreed with this, I know. Then the whole thing blew up in our faces, and it looks like the dance's just starting again. [[The president calls.]] So I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What responsibility does it have to have brought this category to power and established this man in the Ministry of finance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u45	Mr. President. This is a decision made, a law on how to make that decision. It is an institution established by law to make recommendations to a minister and to make such a suggestion for this process. The law's purpose is to ensure a certain distance between the political authority and the executive responsible for the sale. That was the thought behind it. Similarly, it was decided in its own time that individual sales of individual items should not be carried under the General unless it was requested by members of the Parliament. I'm going to let myself say that I have doubts about how it turned out to be an impossible way. I believe the Council should have more access to this matter. I think that when we look at the experience and learn from it, it's not an abnormal idea, as I have said, that the General approval to form when deciding to sell some things and get them involved. [[The president calls.]] I would like to remind you, however, that this distance between political authority and the executive was to be maintained by the law. [[The president calls.]] That was the plan, and the cake will not be kept and eaten in these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u46	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has repeatedly expressed its satisfaction by how it has been successful in selling on the part of the state in Iceland. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: If he was so pleased with how he was doing, why did he decide to respond by suggesting that the Bank Office be removed? Why, then, was it determined to respond to criticism of the sale by settling down the bank office? Secondly, I ask the highest. Minister if this plan has been discussed in the government and introduced to the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. Third, I ask, " What will happen? ' What will happen when these plans go along with the banking department? Those ministers who made that decision might not have had any idea of what to do with them. Will a new banking organization be established to maintain these so - called long arms lengths? Will the project be moved on the board of the government? What's next? In view of this sudden but explicit statement from at least Three tops. Counsellors. The questions are, Mr. President: First, why did they fail? A minister who suggested that the Bank Office be canceled, has been so pleased with the construction? Second, was this presented in the government and the Ministry on Economic Affairs? And third: What will happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u47	President. I'm delighted that I'm a key figure in selling stocks in Iceland when we see what the law says, what we say we're going to do, to the price of the stockholder list. I think we've only achieved very well all our main goals in ensuring distribution of property, getting the public as shareholders, a diverse tenant group. It's just been very successful in everything. I think it would be hard to say that if someone had had that result in both the prices and the shareholder list a year ago, when we were discussing the bank's list in the market, he could have reasoned that this was a completely impossible conclusion. We're selling banks at 50% higher price than we did less than a year ago, but here we meet certain senators and hold talks and take positions with the people in the East, where the call is: We're giving the bank. Of course it doesn't make sense. Why, then, make a change for the future? Well, if you will. A senator was listening to members of Congress who have become very legal and teach us how the only correct interpretation of the law on the Bank County is supposed to be, I think he must have seen that there are very different opinions now, including some. how the role exchange should take place between Ministers, Governments, Ministers and Bank Commission for the implementation of the financial holdings of the State. The bank office was originally set up for temporary purposes, in order to remove the property of the state of finance, rapidly and safely. But then the times changed. What we're primarily saying here is that we're going to propose to the Council that we're going to move on as further steps will be made in the future by releasing the government's ownership at Iceland Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u48	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister did not have time to answer the questions, so I reiterate them now, because it sounds like three of the highest ones. Ministers have met at a meeting at Easter and said, "There's something we have to do. This is something, let's do it. There is no plan for what to take over. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister again, was this introduced to a government meeting? Was this discussed in the Minister's Committee on Economics? I also ask again: Is there a problem with what to do, or was it just a ridiculous reaction to criticism of the sale? And give it to the highest. A minister of time, which should be given because I repeated earlier questions, would be able to answer how he feels about the cost of sales, not the last stage, since the highest. A minister has criticized the cost of his last phase. Man of the highest. What was the first step taken, and is the minister willing to criticize it as well?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u49	A respectable president. With regard to the commercial sales of part of the state: Yes, we've been discussing it in the government, I've been discussing it in the government. I have even suggested to the Generals here at the previous council to make adjustments. And with the different options to rid the government of financial assets, it has been brought up at the Ministerial Committee. But just as we haven't suggested to the Council a proposed proposal, neither have we discussed it on the government or on the Minister's Committee. But the matter has been brought up. When we are asked exactly how we will do this - what we will do is that we will continue to ensure that politicians will not be sent into government banks or on the behalf of the State into a bank where the state will possess property. We will continue to ensure professionalism in the way that governments will be organized, just as the Bank Office has done well by law. Then, however, we will consider all the advantages other than those that are involved in the bank administration to free property and to respect ourselves and make a suggestion for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u50	A respectable president. Yeah, there's been a lot more recently discussed than selling government property in Iceland. I would like to review that since the initial discussion of these ideas, the International Hausthropism Association has been repeated, contrary to the ideas of the personalization of the banks owned by the State, and that has also been a party of the people. In December, a group of people proposed a legal arrangement for dismissing authority for the sale, which was cut off by the greater part and only by my fellow members of the Gang of the people. The 2008 bank display and the massive damage it has not done to the homes of the country, which is a major reason for the strong reaction now heard from the public at the recent sale. Among the buyers are known characters and players from the previous privatization and its resulting collapse. Instead of assaulting privateisation directly, first the collapse must be created, separate trade and investment banks, and seriously consider how to reorganize the financial system, such as changing one bank of the bank of the bank of the bank. The government has ignored these views, and instead only listened to market views and capital owners for the importance of personal development. So I want to ask the highest. Budget and economic minister, considering recent sales of the state in Iceland Bank, whether it is long time to listen to views other than financial resources on how to organise the future budget of the financial system. Don't you think it's time to listen to the views of the consumers who have real experience with this financial system? I don't talk about those who crashed in their whiskers after a crash? Is it not long ago time to listen to public views, or does the government's policy primarily focus on slavery to capitalism at the expense of the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u51	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out. A senator is going through the sale at Iceland Bank, but this is where he finds out that we need to change banks to the public. I've told you so many times here at the council that it's probably one of the safest ways to reduce the value of the banks in the hands of the state. Of course, it is possible to stop driving a profit - making bank and say that we are running here an unfavourable financial business. Of course, it is possible to do so. But it is certain that the value of the bank in the hands of the government will become small. I suppose that would, I'm going to allow myself to say so, to appear to the public in some other way, but this method has been tested in many places and is generally going very badly. What we're doing here is set up a European budget on laws and regulations for financial companies and it's been going well. We've been over the regulations for a financial company in Iceland in the past decade just as has been done in Europe. The risk to the public of the system is far from comparable to what was meant here before a crash. I also have to think that the choice of the public has never been better and actually, because of that. A senator here says that there will still be a collapse, then the situation of the homes has never been better since the collapse. She's become one of the best we've ever had. The debt of the households, the subsidies of the households, the gains, the numbers of those who are buying for the first time in property, interest, loan - all of these factors have been no better than today. That's why it's a little crooked when it's dark. A senator comes here and says: "What's happening is that we're going to clean up after the crash. I feel that this is some fundamental problem in what we have spent in the past decade by correcting the home's debt status, by various measures, and by adjusting the environment, the economic situation, the order, and then by restoring the competitive financial environment that relieves the state of this business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u52	A respectable president. It's got to be said to be the highest. The minister of finance here shows very few ignorance of what people went through after a collapse. It's not unusual that 14 years later there was progress in Iceland, but it doesn't change the fact that we were here at least. Fifteen thousand families lost their homes. It has never been properly recognized, let alone in order to improve in some way. It's really good to live in a cave of rocks. It's really good to just talk to those that are convenient for you and agree with you. I felt that way when I listened to all those experts who came. It was finance, Bank management, Wall Street. They came and talked as if they were part of some sect with just one mantra: Sell, sell, sell. I'm the head of an organization that's the only person in Iceland who could handle the financial market rights of consumers, and we're never called in and asked what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do to consumers, or how -- it's just looked at from the interests of capital owners. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Always.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u53	A respectable president. Yes, I am accused of many things today, and now I am accused of having no knowledge of what happened during the years that followed. Yet, I've been here for all that time, and I've been a minister of finance for a long time since 2013. [[Up front.]] One of the first things we did in my government and what we did. paritaprevir Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson was about to undergo a major economic operation in order to correct the household's debt due to what might be the case. A senator was telling us that home debt had become an economic problem. [[Up front.]] To that end, we took from the state funds of over 80 billion, to repair the home situation. In addition, we took tax measures that have turned over over 100 billion into debt. So home and home debt status for the financial administrations of the country have not been better at this time. Then, of course, it can be concluded well that I have no idea what the home's situation is or how it evolved during this period of time, but I'm going to have to disagree with it. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u54	Madam President. The government's banking system is not a big institution, but it can be handled with enormous value. It is not unusual to conclude that the value of the bank office, which is the share of the state's financial capital, is about 400 billion dollars. We must agree that when it comes to setting up an organization that is, in fact, responsible for 400 billion dollars, it is a decision. it must be a problem both with the council and with the government. Hence, it is surprising how the heads of the governments handled the matter between them during the Passover weekend. They issued a declaration and published on the Council of the Council's Web on April 19, where criticism of the recent sale is responded. It puts it this way: The government has therefore decided to propose to the Council that the State's Bank Management Board will be put down... That statement is wrong. The government did not decide anything, since the government held no meeting for two weeks, from 8,◯22. April. Why do the three heads in a declaration to the people in the country say that the government decided to recommend this at the council when the government obviously did not make any formal choice? Why Tell a Lie? There's no record that any major political issue is to be brought up at government meetings. To put down an institution that holds 400 billion government property must be a major political issue that deserves the sovereignty of the government. Thus a minister of business thus offered an opportunity to express his opinion and even to book opposition rather than do so afterward. It doesn't matter much, as we know. There is also the possibility that at government meetings, as can be read on the Board's website, important policy issues or focus changes should be discussed. To submit or propose to the council that the Bank Commission will be put down and decided to postpone further property sales, is considered to be upcoming policies and priorities compared with the Treaty. Why was this not discussed and settled in the government of the Passover, as should be done according to a constitution? And why was the nation falsely told in a declaration that the government had decided at a meeting to bring this before the council at a government meeting that was never held?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is not that any government meeting is quoted in this statement. It is suggested that the directors of the administrations agreed on certain points, and such plans are not considered to be a decision in the traditional sense of the matter when we discuss what will be considered at a government conference and what to address the committee meeting. Of course, the demolition of the state's banking business depends on more than a part of the Generals accepting legal adjustments there. Such adjustments need to be made to a government. But political declarations about specific plans that are about to revise this arrangement of government's handling and holding their place in financial companies - these are political statements, as we all know well and why. A senator knows them too. When such plans have become a prime event, they take the appropriate procedure, consultation procedures, the Minister's Committee, and the government. I want to draw attention to what. The senator is supposed to be the highest. Minister to treat this group, i.e. The matter of the Bank Office and Bank Case is one of the people involved in this declaration. I'd also like to say, because I think it's important that everything is on board, that there's been a considerable discussion in the realm's field. On April 8, which was the last meeting before Easter, the publication and sale of the State's Bankisol were discussed, the estimate of the State's Accounting. I can tell you how this arrangement has been conducted several times in the realm of government, so this statement does not fall out of the sky, as it were. A senator is suggesting here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u56	Madam President. I'm going to read from this declaration. So the government has decided to propose to the Council that the government's banking agency will be laid down. The first part of the declaration is a matter of opinion that came up during the implementation of the sale. It is also said that the State Department has begun an assessment, and the Federal Bureau of Justice, as well as the Commission, says: "The government has decided to propose... -- and the government puts it down, and it does it because the sale was very important. It is to refer closely to the criticism presented. So I'm gonna offer the highest. The prime minister comes up here in a chair and answers that question again because it will not be better to see when this statement is read than to be wrong. What was discussed before in the government is not important. This declaration points to a specific decision made by the government, it has been decided to propose to the General that the State Department of Banks will be laid down because there were busy sales. The time line at this has to be totally clear. [[The president calls.]] Forms are important, as we all well know when it comes to government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u57	Madam President. Government leaders are government leaders, speaking on behalf of the government, and I feel that a certain phrase is expressed here by the river. Senator. The statement we published is quite obvious, and clearly a declaration of certain political plans for the limitations of the sale, the limitations we discussed at a government meeting, the last before Easter. That doesn't mean why. A senator suggesting that the law here was broken, as I saw it. This morning, the United States Parliamentary Class, in an article in which it was said that the prime minister should be responsible and to take charge of national justice. It is a great responsibility to speak in this way, for this statement is made, which can be understood when it is read in its entirety, based on the prefects of the administrations who speak on behalf of the government and have done so many times, has agreed on certain of the following points and including. ... toimportit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u58	A respectable president. Then there will be something else in this hall today because we are living in a truly awesome time, a world-historic time. You see, there is a war in Europe, a war that has lasted for the third month. The invasion of Pútín, Ukraine, will affect security and defence in our part of the world for a long time. Russia has violated international law and has committed terrible atrocities, including the U.S. to civilians. The safety and values we have built up with great success over the past few decades are in danger. Despite and perhaps because of the threat of Pútín, Finnar and Sweden, who have long been a close associate states of the Atlantic Community, have already increased their cooperation with the Union. Finland and Sweden may submit their application to become a member of NATO in the near future, and there is considerable support for membership in both countries. The Finnish Parliament has discussed a detailed report on the change in the national security environment and saw that the decision of Finland to attend will be made within a few weeks. Similarly, in Sweden an analysis of the safety environment of Sweden is carried out. V.E.G. Secretary of state and supreme. Prime Minister has expressed himself in the media on the possible attendances of our neighbors and friends. So I wanted to pray to the highest. The prime minister to inform the Council of what the government's stand is about the possible application of Finland and Sweden in NATO and how we will support them in the process in case of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As mentioned in the case of the highest. In this case the Icelandic government will support the applications of Finland and Sweden if they decide to apply for involvement in the Atlantic alliance and, like, the driving force. In both of these lands, a member of the body of elders mentioned them a lot of discussions. Of course, these countries are already very close to the Union of the Atlantic Union. Their leaders have recently attended a summit. They've participated in both Norwegian and North European security and protective cooperation, so they've so far been part of our closest partners in this area. If the conclusion of these countries, the councils and the governments, is to be applied for them, Iceland will support that decision. I had an informal meeting with the Prime Minister of Finland these days, where I insisted that we pay them a street on the scene of the council, for this is the case where it comes to such matters that they need to agree with Congress proposal for confirmation of an additional North Atlantic Convention on membership of individual states so that they must pass through the Congress. Of course, it matters that they're settled, and I know that the State Department is ready to take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. It is good to hear here at the council confirmation that the Icelandic government will support the network of Find and Sweden, these closest members of our alliances, will come for them to be involved in NATO. Now is the time for our full support and solidarity. This reversal of these friends of our nations is also completely understandable in view of Russia's invasion of a sovereign European state. This no doubt helped many to realize that they are not in the refuge they would like to be. Pútín has already been threatened in every direction, and it can be expected that Find's Member States will not be exposed to Sweden. So I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister of the United States has considered and prepared to face a severe reaction and punishment from Pútín just for supporting the defenses of our friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u61	Madam President. We have passed through this time, after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, met several times at the National Security Council, and tried to accept the situation as this invasion and this horrible war have taken an effort to assess the impact of Iceland. It's workin' to update our assessment of the state and to watch security and defenses and to hope that such updated assessments will be available in the spring months. Of course, it has to do with what happened. A senator asks what kind of reaction we can expect. Since then, we have made the decision to make a special contribution to the Internet security, since we see tremendous pressures on the infrastructure we have, we see additional pressures related to this invasion. This is a huge matter, and it is a real pleasure if we could increase our contribution to it. There, we could contribute something realistic to security and protection. So these issues have been discussed and examined in the area of the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u62	Madam President. I don't think we can really leave this discussion that was here a different than frame it in -- and that's fine for the highest. To bear in mind - that I can't see better than to the highest. Just a few minutes ago, the prime minister was simply wrong in the public speaker's program. This is so that while the heads of the government groups are government spokesmen, they cannot claim to speak on behalf of the entire government on the basis of a formal decision unless this decision has been made formally at a government meeting. This doesn't happen in a text message between people at Easter weekend. This does not happen on Teams or after any other informal communication routes. If the government decides something, if the government decides to propose it with the Council to lay down the bank administration, the government must meet to make that decision. That's perfectly clear. The officials of the administrations cannot take that authority without speaking to other ministers and formally deciding that something is done in the name of the entire government. [[The president calls.]] This is important, and when we are discussing the bank sales, I don't think it's a good thing to think that there's a significant difference from the General speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u63	President. Yeah, I'll agree with what. paritaprevir Sigmur Guðmundsson, this decision to shut down the Bank County, which was to do so anyway, but to do that now all of a sudden that some reaction to this bank sale smells a lot of crap mix, excuse the language, Mr. President. It is always talking about some length of arm, but the length of the arm is not enough for the government to somehow get in the way of a self - righteous investigation, which should be on the basis of the council, but is simply to try to respond and offer some solution that would ease people's worries but is not going to. In her reply to me, Prime Minister earlier said that it was important for her to study the bank sales fully, and that is why the government accountant and the National Accounting Bank had been asked to investigate the matter. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry about that. But we know from history that the government accountant does not have the necessary tools. [[The president calls.]] And the late bank, or SEC, has no obligation to inform the public. The NTSB is also about providing political responsibility and connecting all strings needed to get the bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why this requirement remains for us to need a research committee to investigate fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u64	President wants less of it. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u65	Madam President. I was a little disturbed by the way things were going on. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson at the highest. Prime Minister. In his first reply, prime minister uses terms and speaks of no mention of a government meeting. Right away. A senator then reads it up and shows that it clearly states that the government decided to lay down the bank office on a specific matter, and no meetings were held to decide it then answered the highest. The prime minister, since they were the points of the government and spoke on behalf of them. I didn't expect to do so, and in the 17th century, I thought again to Loðvík 14., when I listened to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister speaking. But he said. The kingdom, that's me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u66	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and call attention to a very serious situation. A legal committee could not hold a meeting this morning with the State Department, despite the fact that we are discussing serious matters, about selling a part of the state in Iceland. Governments and bank officials have discussed that everything should be on board, nothing is to be hidden. The person with the Agency's representatives has had three weeks to prepare a memo with questions from the end of the question. It's a legal committee. They have known about this meeting for three weeks, and the night before, they call the chairman of the legal committee and tell her that they are not going to be there because the memo is not ready. They are the same people who have been able to communicate freely and in a rather unorthodox way so far as to see how marvelous this invitation has worked, but now they do not trust to attend because the memo is not ready. I just ask, who is working on this memo and is waiting for some lecture on that magazine?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u67	A respectable president. I have to get involved in this discussion because what is said here, under the President's conference board, about the lawlessness that the government has published a statement here last week about its plans on the grounds that it did not first find out specifically about the matter. However, it had been discussed in the Ministry Committee and in the government, as presented here, that we wanted to reevaluate this arrangement. And what does the declaration say? Yes, it is a planned plan to suggest to the Council later, who has the ultimate authority in the case as everybody knows and sees that in the future we will take other steps to free the property of the state of finance. Here people allow themselves to come up and write articles, some of them, linking it to the postwar years and national judgment and mentioning that Geir Haarde could now have helped the government to understand the seriousness of the matter. Those who speak like this here in a speech chair, those who say it is in their words and in their writings that the government has so gravely violated a law that it should be brought before the court of the land, they should offer a suggestion here, or this will stop. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u68	Madam President. I come up here to testify. V.E.G. The prime minister said, with the permission of the president: I saw what. Group members of the United States indicate that there was a violation of the law, where it was said that the prime minister should be responsible and before national justice. I just didn't say that at all. I said, with President's permission: A prime minister wants us to be careful, to avoid procrastination, and to draw conclusions beyond the data we have, but he will insist that the gas description is out of the question for those who criticize this sale. Surely, then, we must insist that the prime minister complys with the clear command of Article 17. Constitutions for having a government meeting on important administrative matters, but the Court sentenced the then prime minister Geir H. Haardeur for violating this very requirement in the 2008 bank crash. This obligation cannot be avoided by claiming to have held a meeting if it was not held. Government is not three Ministers, it's all the government. We must agree on that. Madam President. They're claiming that it was a government meeting, that it was the whole government that discussed it. The report on decomposition came April 19th. [[The president calls.]] A government meeting where this matter is on the program is held April 22, a few days later. [[The president calls.]] [ Word transliteration at the Assembly Hall.] Looks like the highest. Ministers do not have any sense of dignity or concern that this is a legal offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u69	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect speech class and [Centennial Hall] A conversation in a council hall is not over. If people need to meet here, they'll come out. There's one meeting in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u70	Madam President. Yes, transparency. V.E.G. The prime minister discussed the transparency here, and I wondered about it, if the government wants to increase the public trust and get all aspects of the case, why not order an investigation committee? I don't quite understand the evidence for that. Don't we want to see every side of the story? Do we not want different people who come and have different priorities and why decisions were made? I find it odd to talk about transparency and not ensure that there are all ways to increase confidence in the Council and confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to bring something up. It's the term use that's taken place at this meeting here. V.E.G. Prime Minister spoke of qualified investors. This closed invitation required a professional investment. All that involves is that they should be able to weigh the risk to the market. There's nothing that says they're qualified to buy banks. One professional investor was sold for 1,100 levels. K. A million dollars was paid for by the public. It is being used here a slogan such as professional investors and qualified investors who had absolutely nothing to say about the matter and that the prime minister should come up here and say, "It was a proper investment - it's just wrong. It's simply wrong. Another thing I'd like to come to is disrespectful to a financial committee in which I am sitting and was the cause of this discussion right now. It's got the most amazing thing about the state's Bankiscation, the most amazing thing in the world. I thought last night I was coming to an open meeting with the state Bankiscation. But no, the chairman of the Bank Office refuses to attend. This is disrespectful of the General Assembly and disrespectful to the surveillance of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This lack of respect, it needs to be done, e.g. appoint a preaching authority so that the Council can preach to people and they obey that preaching work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u72	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials are to respect the rules of speaking class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u73	President. That's exactly what I'd like to complain that the State Bank Office has not been at a budget hearing this morning. It went on and on and on, there were three or four cancelers, it didn't mean to come, so, yes, you just come anyway, and then no and yes and back and back and back again and we didn't really know until late last night that there was no meeting. I'd like to interpret it as if by Congress law and by the regulations of regular committees, both those who are now working after it, but have not been approved and those who once were, that the government is obliged to appear before a committee and to explain the information it has been in seven days. That's a cut off of 51 st. Parliamentary law. It speaks of evidence and information that governs the government. It may also mean that they must appear before a committee and tell out loud what information they have. I'm going to go to the President to make that interpretation clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u74	Madam President. We must make significant comments on how the highest order is made. The minister of finance is approaching the truth here from the Trustee of the Algill, who has a long talk about some aspect of the government's opposition to national judgment and then tells us that he is merely carrying a bug. He makes a straw, argues with the strawer, and speaks his lies. This is not welcome. All that the government has to say is that the form of the government is important. Making legal decisions at meetings in the right way is important. True, judgment has fallen, but this does not mean that humans are calling for such an arrangement. The seriousness of not applying what is to be done when men are making huge decisions in the highest government. It's just very simple what we're pointing at. There is no point in arguing with the government of some national court. Nobody's talking on that line. We're just pointing out the government has to do with the law. [[The president calls.]] She has to go by the constitution. She has to do things right because otherwise the whole system will collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u75	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister has considered it here and answered questions about how the declaration from the government was being made. I think it is very serious how hard a word has fallen to her that has just sat here for answers and answers. Madam President. I don't really bother with your conference board to complain, but I think that would help, i.e. The case involved dealing with the government's ownership of Iceland Bank, taking a material discussion on the subject, which may include: will be made up of a report followed by a financial minister, which will be carried out in a special discussion of the next few days and that was also done in an unsubstantiated question period earlier today and will no doubt be reassigned in an unprepared question period later this week. I think we just got much further into real material discussion by talking about it, but not here on a discussion about the President's conference board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u76	A respectable president. Today's discussion has convinced me more than ever before that we need a research committee. We've got to get an NTSB. What was said here in this sermon not so long ago said about the collapse, that it had been arranged by some visible arrangement to provide the people, the 10◯15,000 people who lost their homes - these people are still in the rented, rent - rent market. There are people who have fled the country. Nothing has been done for it. We made up the bank crash with a research report on the banks, we also made a research report on the pension fund's investments, and we have a obligation to report the sale at Iceland Bank. We can't go against it. I'm always getting more convinced that it's the only right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u77	Madam President. I come here a second time to confirm that according to the Board of Directorates' Web site, there was no discussion at the government meetings from February 22 to April 8 that the bank administration should be dropped. The Council's Web reports that at a government meeting on April 22, three days after the announcement by a government secretary to bring down the bank office - at that meeting, three days later - a declaration was being made to shut down the Bank County. However, the proclamation is that the government has made this decision. This is where the highest will allow. The secretary of finance actually sees to it that this was being discussed in the government, but there is no evidence on the board of directors until after announcement. That's what matters. We know it matters, and I refer there to the national judgment I speak about in an article in the Morning Press today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u78	A respectable president. In the 17th. The constitution and III. a section on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland is presented with very important rules on including: o n t h e a n t h e t h e t h e t h e a t h e t h e t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t h e n t t t h e n t t h e n t i n t h e n t i n t h e n t h e n t h e n t i n t h e n t t h e n t t t h e n t t h e n t t t t t t h e n t h e n t t t h e n t h e n t t t t t h e n t t t t t t t t t t t e n t t t t t t t t t t t t t t h e n t h e n e n t t t t t h e n e n t t e n t e n t e n t t e n t t t t h e n t t t t t t h e n t t t t h e n t h e n t t t t t t t h e n t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t e n t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t These are the rules that are there for a reason that we should take these rules seriously, no matter what we think about national judgment, that arrangement, and whether it was right to bring a person into the land years ago, etc. I need to draw attention to what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Prime Minister earlier. I don't get to understand a speech at the highest. A minister may be somewhat different from the point of the governments to feel that he is fully qualified, without formally deciding in this government conference to announce that the government has made a decision about something. [[The president calls.]] I think that now we have to read everything that is stated on board sleeps and that the government's announcements are very different if the prime minister feels that he does not have to formally decide this at a government meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u79	The president of my staff still wants to drive. The members of Congress are supposed to complain about the President's conference board as a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u80	A respectable president. Bank Office leaders arrived at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee two days after the sale of Iceland Bank. And if I ever saw happy men, it was them. They were so happy, as it affects me, just iced them with pleasure. I don't know how to describe it, but happiness completely shone on them over a successful sale. It was two days after the sale. Did they at that point really not realize how much mess this was, or did they just rest in that they would never have to give up the buyers, they would always get away with it without having to give up on how it had really happened? They were at least ... absolutelyexcited. What was different from the fact that they had to give up who bought them, and how did this work out? Not attending a meeting when the Council is calling for someone must be serious, and I wonder if I would get away with it if, for example. The police would call me in for questioning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I doubt it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u81	A respectable president. I'm just going to continue to criticize how the government's work is referred to here as a multi-organized government where a man cannot make a decision without getting together. The situation is that the bank accounts are with the secretary of finance, and that is what makes the proposal for a government which is a consultation area on law changes or other matters relating to the bank administration. The government, whether it meets or not, cannot make any final decision in the affairs of the Bank County, but neither will it depend on the approval of the Generals. This proposal announces that the members of the classes agreed, after having discussed the matter in the background and for the leading of the invitation to a government meeting, not as a formal speech, but as a conversation in the government, and in the declaration it is announced that they will discuss the matter further and in the end they will ask the Council to make a change. It is ridiculous to mention a law on the privilege of being a minister in this context, absurd, and fundamental understanding of it, even if the case had been discussed at a government meeting, that it had changed some decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The General has the final word. [[The president calls.]] The government is not a multi-organized government. Period. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u82	Now it's the highest. The minister of finance has become out of tune, and he may feel that we are getting stuck in the form. But we know what happens or can happen if we are not careful to stay on it. One minister wrote about some informal discussions about this in the leading of the sale. But the declaration says: ▪ The figures identified for the preparation and implementation of sales of the financial part of the state have revealed the need for a review of the law and the establishment of a system. Therefore, the government has decided to propose to the Council that the State Department of Banks will be laid down.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u83	You know what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u84	That little word, 'cause. You see, the second leads to the first. V.E.G. The minister of finance cannot refer to any discussion that took place some weeks ago, some months or years ago, as it has been the highest. Secretary of finance, for example, said for many years about shutting down the Banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u85	Madam President. I wanted to first put it to rest, just to make it clear, that these cases have been discussed five times in the government. I was here quoting a discussion about this particular sale on April 8. That wasn't on the press program, just to be said, because of the point. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir witnessed to her. Sometimes the media program may not be all that matters, but this meeting has been made available to the Government Accounting Committee, which has requested meetings for the entire discussion. I think it's important for me to come out here so that I can't. A senator doesn't think I've been wrong about it. Then I want to reiterate that it is so that the resolution is made by the three of us government leaders, and someone may feel that it is less at Loðvík 14. I think they're just gonna have to deal with them. There we speak to the government, as we do in a government contract several times, where we make plans. But obviously, decisions are made in a formal way. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to remind you that the Minister responsible for this case and will eventually offer a bill and suggest it at the council is a party at this declaration. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I think it's important to explain as much as possible here because I hear that this discussion is out in many areas and that there is much to explain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u86	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said that if we set out for the discussion next at this meeting, we could go further in material discussion on this subject. I would like to ask, " How can we remain in our material discussion at the highest point? ' Ministers of the government continue to go back and forth with the support of the case. The senators of the greater part? V.E.G. Secretary of finance has appeared in the media, turned the claim that people bought and sold the next day by saying, "No, that wasn't the next day. Because it may have been a few days later. It's called outback of Icelandic. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said, "Can't my dad buy? No one says his father can't buy. This is what is called a good Icelandic exit. V.E.G. The secretary of finance comes up earlier and has a straw on some sort of national lawsuit and we're just supposed to start off with it. That's the government case. V.E.G. There's a minister of culture and business, and he says he's said he's got a little dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The prime minister comes to say that he was not charged with any dissatisfaction. V.E.G. Then a minister of finance came up earlier and confirmed what I have held for a long time, and a suspect that is at the height. The rulers of this government feel that the government has nothing to do with what individual ministers do. [[The president calls.]] There is nothing else in this situation than ordering a committee to understand all aspects of this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u87	President wants less of it. Congress officials say that the time for a comment at the president's conference board is one minute, not one minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u88	President. In the 17th. The Constitution says that a Ministerial Conference should be held regarding a new statement in the law and on important political issues. It's time to go to the top. The prime minister here tells us that this bank county was discussed on April 8, under other concerns. Was there someone who booked it? How do we know that it was clear and clear that such an important matter was discussed in other matters so that the government decided to bring down the bank business? It'd be interesting to see it. I look forward to it. There is nothing wrong, such as whether such an important matter should have been part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u89	Madam President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance reminded us that the government of Iceland was not a multi-organized government. It is a reminder that perhaps it is best to refer to the government itself because in its final term it was repeatedly presented as such. In order to cover over differences within the government's parties for disease prevention measures, it was always published in press reports that the government had agreed to a proposal made by a health minister for tribulations in the freedom of the people of the land. Thus, each of them had somehow become responsible, although, as the secretary of finance says, it was only a health minister who hired it. So, naturally, people in the board of directors are beginning to get confused only about whether or not they are multi-organized governmental powers. But listen to another word that came from the highest. Prime Minister, the media program. Government procedures state that the government program should be made public at the end of the meeting and sent and presented to the press. It is not the real program, which includes the media program. anything has been published that could refer to some conflict between the ruling parties. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This shit's bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u90	Madam President. I think we're all aware of what's in this room here today that it's supposed to lay down the Banks to save the lives of the government. The point should be to him, not to the other. I think the answer is the same as before. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, pointed out. We have a board to appoint. I would like to refer to the highest words. Prime Minister in 2017 when she said: In 2012, the only way to eliminate that suspicion is to do a careful work job, to counter research on the trade process, as agreed by the General of the Council in 2012, to learn from the process, to learn from other privatizing of the State's stakes in banks. V.E.G. Minister has announced the sale of state funds in the banks, but he has also said, Mrs. President, that it is important to take the time needed. Is it not reason to complete a study of this process so that we can get all the things out of this subject that have been like a bruise in the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u91	President. I agree with a long conference. Normally, it is until eight o'clock, but we were told that the prolongation of a meeting was all about being able to complete a verbal report for sale in Iceland Bank in case of over eight. So I'll give them a "yes" song on notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u92	A respectable president. A little over a year ago, we got together to release the shares of the government in Iceland Bank. The matter was important and timely, ending the U.S. government's holding of the most extensive and widely sought property in Europe. After careful preparation, the premiere of last summer and Iceland Bank was registered in the market. A good price was given for selling items, leaving a scattered owners group, and the bank became the largest public partner in the country. The second step was taken in March when 22.5% of the items were sold in less than 53 billion. The price was more than 50% higher than last year, but after a successful launch registration, the bank has increased by 100 billion dollars. With the right of the money for the state's profit. The number of stockholders and the owner's group are scattered, but the vast majority are pension funds and other long - term investors. The five largest stockholders after the state's budget are the LSR, the pension fund values, the Capital Group and the Pension Fund. The combination is similar when you go further down the list, with a total of 14 of the largest shareholders at the bank of 77%. The solidarity of the state's holding of a holding of 95% shares, a stability of Glitnis, nearly 300 billion when confronted with income, sale value, and the rest of a share. This is the big context of the parts, and it certainly takes less than that. A successful sale plays a key role in a recent financial program that is solidly based on recent years, continuing to build up and wind from the side of a pandemic. Such results are not achieved in voids. A respectable president. We're not just here to discuss this big movie. It is only natural for us to review the entire sales process and discuss the facts. The campaign began on January 20, 2000. When the Ministry of Economics and Economics received a proposal from the State to continue sales therapy. The matter was discussed in the Minister's Committee on Economics and Reorganization on February 4, where the Bank Board presented a proposed method of sales and other factors. Following the release of the Ministry Committee, the same procedure was taken from the 8th of February. Two days later, we requested the review of the Board of Economic and Economic Committees of the International Parliaments, as well as the Sentencing Bank, with its letters. The same day, the Ministry published a report on the increase in sales. The matter was thoroughly presented here at the council, for committees, including Meeting with the State Bank Office. The reviews of the committees were received during the first days of the month of March, where it was recommended to begin selling according to the proposal and methodology proposed by the bank office. On March 18, it was formally decided to start the sales process, but the government's banking agency attacked the tender auction four days later, on March 22. The opening of the invitation was presented by the bank office's press release after the closing market, and it was discussed in most of the media in the afternoon. The invitation included qualified investors as defined by the law, and it was possible for anyone who fell there to register for things. On the evening of March 22, I received a law on the logic of the Bankisol's assessment that covered the expected size, final prices, and distribution. This information was adopted by me in a letter that night. All of these data have been published publicly. On the morning of March 23, the government's Bank Management Board and its advisers finally published a news report on the outcome of the invitation, a total of 50 million items were sold at a price of 117 or a total of 52.7 billion dollars. An offer was received from 209 investors, of which 207 received distribution. With the price, 117 bucks. it is important to remember that just prior to this tender auction, fairly large interest had been paid from the Bank of Iceland, which should have had an impact in which the bank's property was lost on payment, with the reference date of March 18. So only a few days before the invitation, money had been paid. When compared with the older gangs, this needs to be taken into account, with a clear increase of 5.95 in gangs. We can say that compared with what was on the market for money, the bank was sold on what would amount to 122.95. What was the success of the bank when Bank County proposed to me? Then it was 124.6. What was it when the matter was discussed on the Minister's Committee? Then it was a Minister's Committee. Then it was 13.8. When the case was discussed in the government, 123 walked, just the exact same gang as the sentencing self. When we sent a letter to the council, they walked 126. When I received a review of the Federal Bank, 124 walked. When a financial committee returned, it was going to 33.8, about the same gang we sold on. When the Economic and Business Committee sent a review, the march was 121, lower than the bid. Thus it can be shown that the walk we sold on was very similar to that of the weeks and months, perhaps especially before the invitation. This is what I want to say in the interest of a discussion I've been aware that there was something particularly low going. When we looked at the amount of money being sold that day, this amounts to about 300 days' business with the bank and, of course, it was meant to affect comparison with the last registered market, which was minimal compared to what had been discussed in ways and what we know from another source. A respectable president. As you can see, the preparation of the case was in accordance with the prescription of the state's Bankiscation Act and the government's laws for the sale of financial resources, which, according to its own implementation in the hands of the Bank of the county. This law was given not only in the time of the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in its time after any preparation but also a high priority on the length between politicians and the Banks. It even appeared. in that the Bank Management Board takes full interest in the administrations of banks in which the State owns its property, and thus all the political ties to its property are cut off On the law bill on selling property items, that's what it is. paritaprevir With the permission of the president, Oddný G. Harðardóttir at his time, those as secretary of finance, concluded the following: By hiding a special government agency, the State's Bank Commission, the management of the holdings of financial funds, and the presentation of proposals for the sale of their property, the plan was to ensure objectiveness in the treatment of these matters. In fact, humility is one of the main points, especially when we are having an invitation. This is a clear mark of the law, which, in part, says: that the government's banking management board is to handle sales therapy, prepare sales, look for proposals, evaluate oers, oversee negotiations with external advisers, including magazines, which are very busy in these days, including the U.S.A. At the council, oversee negotiations with potential buyers and negotiations. A respectable president. After the invitation, there have been questions about a few things, three of which are the highest in my mind. First, I'd like to mention the possibility of participating in the staff of the Bankisle's sales advisors at the auction, sales consultants who had negotiated with the Bank Office to take on the role of securing a bid. To make it clear, I don't like such involvement very well, and I suppose the late bank would consider it a matter to the basement. I'm not going to say anything about how these matters were, I've just noticed the discussion, and I've heard that many people worry that there was a conflict of interests. If it was, then it's bad, and it's not according to any signature, either in the law, in the church treatment or according to the message I had given to the Bank Office nor by any means established by the Bank Office itself. Second, I mention a discussion about possible involvement by someone who was not considered qualified to be an investor of the law, and I might mention this because I notice that many people who are expressing themselves on these issues in these days say: 'to be depravity, a possible violation of the law, and then they continue to express themselves on these matters. It may be during the investigation to do so, but then you should also only hold back in your excitement and be careful not to talk about these matters as if someone had assured that the law was broken or that in many places there was a pot broken in these materials. What I would like to say for my part about this is: Of course it was a fundamental requirement, of the Bank Office, order of finance minister, that only those who met conditions could participate. It's obvious. No one needs to think that he can get into a fight with me on this point. Third, I'd like to mention transparency and information, but despite a full presentation to members of the Parliament and the publication of a paper report on the proposed sale and method, the process and the plans for sale would have been further presented to the public and the public. In fact, I wondered if the Senate committees should have taken longer time because I have been surprised to learn that members of the council who were even here on the committee's opinion of the matter say that it was a big surprise to them. [[Up front.]] Here the senators call out and say, "We didn't get the time. " It is now that members of Congress long called for the delay I requested that the Senate be respected, and I made no comments about it. I spoke to the chairman of the committee and said: " Don't worry, take the time you need. That's exactly what happened. I made no comments. There was no response on the part of any less than that, saying, "Take the time. " Also, I have to say that there were possible access and publications of information that followed the invitation, so questions were raised during the period of information, and I felt that some questions were missing for too long. Thus, I formally requested a summary of the buyers by letter to the bank office of March 30th and also referred. To Article 3. law on the sale of the financial holdings of the State, with high emphasis on transparency and equality. The chart was received a week later, on April 6, with signs that it would not be safe to make it accessible to the public on the basis of bank secrets. The Agency had also presented, or convened, the previous days and had a legal opinion in place. According to the Bank Office's letter, Iceland's Bank declared that he would comment on the release of information on buyers of the bank's clients except on their consent. Foreign counselors made a similar effort to indicate that such information was not traditionally published. The Ministry did not accept that view. I had had this checked in a special house at the Ministry of Economic Affairs while awaiting the response of the Bank Office and finally decided to publish this overview on the same day in accordance with the results I had obtained in my house and after my own opinion of the case, and it was also consistent with our clear focus in the government on the sale of state property. A week ago, the government decided to suggest that further steps not be taken. We announced that we would not rather sell items in Iceland banks without going into the sales arrangements and announced that they will be submitted to the General Assembly that the State Department of Banks will be laid down. A new arrangement will be implemented to keep the government's ownership of financial assets and to sell them. I'd like to state that with this it is in no way said that the Bank Office has not followed laws or violated rules. Nor is it to claim that some major defects have been made in the implementation of the government's plans. I've considered the main thing I've thought to stand for, but it's to be considered, and I think it's better to wait with statements on it, how to handle it until we see to the bottom of that observation. Our objective is simply to meet the rich demands of the council, better than the present arrangement, for which it will be difficult to meet these extensive requirements, including the challenge of doing so. of transparency, where custody of the case is hidden to this great extent. A respectable president. Finally, I think that in many ways the discussion has been misinformed over the past few days. A significant amount of dirt has been caused by declarations that often involve little more than details in all of this, such as. whether there was a formal government meeting before a statement was made here the other day. I think it's killing the case a lot, I have to say it. It has also been a major factor in the fact that humans have taken unique examples of such background stories, and there is, in fact, no way can be dealt with such stories other than to hide a government thought simply to go down into these things. What else is to be done? People can come here and get excited that they've heard something and seen something written somewhere, but we have to live up to the role we're assigned to do it professionally. The government doesn't want to represent anything but getting all these things on the table and taking care of the whole process, discussing what may have gone wrong, as I've been here. But I feel that the key factors in this matter have been too far gone. And I think there's a lot of lack of logic to be behind big talk, and I don't talk about it when there's some kind of conspiracy, major corruption, and crime. It may be noted that in the first place, we had chosen the buyers, which have been mentioned in the discussion many times. When the problem was severed, the government authorities came and said that the minister of finance had - had, see - should have a list of the list, and so the buyers were to be picked by political analysis of who was buying. Do not trust an institution that was specifically set in an objective way to review the list of buyers but, rather, politically oversee it. Then I feel like men have come to a perfect circle, I have to say it. Is that what humans really want? Will individual buyers be handmade? I hear this afternoon at the Senate Hall, under the President's conference board, people found on the list some undesirables. And you can do nothing but add one plus one and get two out that the minister should have crossed the list and thrown them out. Or what are they saying? This statement needs to be made at the council today. At a recent tender auction, there were bids on the third hundred, and in the jungle it divided tens of thousands. Do the senators really believe that the purpose of the law was for a minister to cross every offer and choose only in and out? Of course, it is a preposterous legal interpretation, and it does not hold to any opinion when reading the laws and articles together, as it is quite clear that when an tender order is implemented, it can be entrusted to the Bank Office to follow objective guidelines on the bottom line of the case. There are still reports in many places before the Passover that the majority of the investors in the invitation had sold their letters with great profits. In fact, this was driven by the Bank Office and said that it was not the basis for all these claims. Reasons for statements were not available, and when this is presented, people come and say: "Well, there's still doubt about what it was like. But what is stated is that this is not the basis for the story because the information that was tried to interpret was being misunderstood. As we have seen, it is true that the majority of buyers have maintained or added their share, and the number of shareholders has increased since the tender date of tender marketing. If it were so much to escape from the bank that everyone planned to take in so much of this fast - moving profit because of having participated in the auction, how is it that the shareholders grow? And let us bear in mind this: Who has benefited the most from the growth of the message's gangs after the invitation? I have news for you: It's the Iceland State Fund that's holding a 42.5% share. It has profited greatly by having carried out the invitation in a way that did not create a market disorder, and the letters continued to rise to the 100 billion that they had previously increased over the past year. I can continue to refute things that have been in the discussion, but I have to stop. I'm happy to have an opportunity to discuss this matter here at the council. I encourage men to stick to the facts, to give to the institutions we have chosen by law to review factors like this time, and to respect them, but do not declare that they are unqualified to perform that task. I am not afraid of that opinion when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u93	Mr. President. Here's where the highest bid. Minister of Congress to avoid passing judgments on in advance whether or not something has gone wrong, etc. However, a statement published by the directors of the administrations on April 19 of the past states that the sale of the financial part of the State has been very important in preparing and implementing financial property. And with reference to the limitations that claim to be there, it is stated that the government will suggest that an entire government agency be laid down. V.E.G. The prime minister then followed this statement by interviews, where she hung these limitations in the Bank Office, that they were practical, said, and carried out in the bank office. That's why I want to ask the highest. The financial and economic ministers what exactly are the points referred to here. And since the subjects are at the Bank Office, I would also like to ask, "How and in what respects did the U.S. Department of Bank exactly withdraw from the prime minister, from the decision and suggestion of the Minister, from the sale of Iceland Bank? "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u94	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator would have been listening to my talk that I just finished for 20 minutes if I had given him an excellent perspective on the major problems I've been having. In particular, what is being referred to in the declaration of the governments is a subject of transparency and information.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u95	A respectable president. I listened carefully to a talk at the top. Minister. There he spoke specifically of e.g. the one with the sales advisers, whether or not they were selling themselves an object. It is likely that there is something that we cannot at this point determine whether or not it was abnormal. That's how at least spoke No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, when it comes to transparency and information, it would be interesting to hear more clearly what it is. We know that there was a lack of transparency after the sale, but in the government declaration, there is a limit to preparation and implementation. Then I'd like to hear what a minister believes that the Bank Office has kept information from the council or the public. In Comb 4. the legal management of the government's holdings on financial companies says: When an offer is made in part of the estate, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the prime minister with a reasoned assessment of it. The minister decides whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State for the sale of the holding object. As we know, it took the highest. Secretary of finance of this decision recommended in the law of March 22 of the past. I want to ask the highest. Minister here in the second round, how he took his position on this most reasoned assessment of the Bank Office, how much time he and his department took to make an informed decision about the evidence available, whether it would be offered, and what information would be considered at the highest level. A minister obtained a basis for making the decision. I'd like to hear about the highest law. A minister looked to him when he made his decision, which law and order he assumed to be bound by this decision in Article 4. legal action on the sales of the financial property of the State was taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u96	A respectable president. I don't have anything to add to the information supply and the transparency. In fact, it is surprising to feel that way when it comes to it. A candidate gives his speech that he seems to be very pleased with the arrangement as it is in the law. Yet, there is a senator who has the most critical of all. What we have proclaimed is two things: that no further sale of property is to be done until the arrangement is reviewed and that we will submit these suggestions to the Council when it comes to it. I think it's done quite well with the planning, the presentation and presentation of this case, both before and after the campaign, that we think it might have been better. Regarding the decision taken on the evening of the tender eviction day, there was a possibility that there would be a variation from the last recorded market for such a large outcast. It was discussed on the Board of Ministers, and it was discussed in the government, and I expect it was discussed at the Senate Committee. I think all fair men see that there wasn't anything else to expect. Then, when the bank agency proposes to me to agree to the march of 117 in this campaign, I can say that it was within the pain limit that you had imagined to be able to live with the implementation of the invitation. Similarly, the Bank Office presents us with a rough combination of investments, including the results. reports that foreign investors receive 15%, how many have sent in oers, etc., and that the Bank Commission will comply with the guidelines found in the law and financial recommendations of the Ministry, as well as with the traditional provision of stock markets for final intervention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that's what I agreed to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u97	Madam President. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget to the results of the auction. He's here in a lecture and he speaks of the sale as a success and, in fact, great success, along with what officials of the administrations have announced that in the direct subsequent part of this sales, no further sale of the state of Iceland banks will now be attacked. For those of us who were in favor of this sale, this is a very serious consequence of the project, the result is that the government does not trust to continue. Is that not a major answer to how the government has to cancel plans and further sales, while the government has since decided to propose to the Council that the State's Bank Board will be canceled? The main consequences of this proclamation on the part of the government are these two: No further sale, the Bank Office, canceled. How, then, can it be at the top? A minister standing here on a talk chair, a bit irritated, claiming that everything in this room has a measure of dignity?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u98	A respectable president. I can make you happy. A senator, I think, when I tell her that she doesn't have to be afraid because the government has proclaimed that a new arrangement will be adopted for further sale of the government's property. Then it can. A senator made a big part of having an opinion of the export and secure continued sales of what has become smaller in the bank, and we continue on the vital task of putting a private business in the hands of a government owner and in the state of state, because we have a second choice in this enormous debt of debt. And if we put our hands together, me and what. A senator, and let's do this well, there's nothing to be but a very long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u99	Madam President. I asked the highest. Minister of this question for the words presented in the press release, that no further sale of the state of Iceland banking will be undertaken at any time. This press release is sent forth directly and following the progress now. As I mentioned, the conclusion is very serious and says all that has to be said about how successful it was. The government does not trust itself to continue. I would be interested to hear whether it is a sole concern in the government to continue sales in the current circumstances, that the SEC and State accountant are covering this issue. And all of this is open, as government officials say a committee will consider the case, if necessary. But I would also be interested in hearing words of the highest degree. Secretary of finance to see what the discussion was on the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs for the dealing of the sale, whether it is at the highest level. A businessman has declared that she had a warning there. She has also declared in the media that there is nothing in the conclusion of this decree that surprised her, and it is obvious from her words that she feels that she has not successfully succeeded. There are these two questions; further sales in the current situation and the discussion between the Prosecutor of the Agency, Prime Minister and Minister of finance of the Ministry on the Economics and the alleged warnings of the League's vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u100	A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, it's a surprise to listen to such an overwhelming disappointment. A senator assumes that we want to go another way. I didn't expect that, in the years of the Crude, great supporters would be to continue with the Bank County and just move on, to do the same thing again. I didn't expect it to come from Upstate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u101	It's a twist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u102	Who's got a way out? When the government is being criticized for wanting to develop other means, you must walk... If I could get peace. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] These are the people who were saying I'm so frustrated, they're standing here waving and calling out all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u103	President wants less of it. Congress officials say that a speaker in a speaker's stand has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u104	When people express great disappointment in the fact that the government wants to reevaluate the sales arrangement, they must be indicating great satisfaction with the current arrangement. If not, I want to hear more about it. But it beats you a little strange. I just have to say exactly as I am, I think there's something I can do better. But I think there's a way of changing the arrangement and increasing transparency and information, which is the main thing we're talking about. A minister's debate is not public, but I can say that all ministers serving on the Ministers' Committee participated in it. I call attention to the fact that it is the Bank Office itself, which contains its documents for the council, or which are the basis for the data that came before the council and were on the Minister's Committee, the Bank Office itself that is calling attention to the benefits and shortcomings of the different paths we face as options. We discussed all these advantages and weaknesses, and among those that came out of work at the Minister's Committee, it was that when I then submit a report to the council on the continuation of the sale and then agree to the public proposal, I have decided to raise the section specifically in which further steps are being taken, we are going to learn a lesson from the sale being carried out here, and we will then stress general growth and participation in the public, a little different from what the bank office gave us, which was actually going off the table. And it all matters. That's what I'm talking about. A senator was picking up from our declaration because without any intervention and bringing this statement, the bank office remains open for sale, e.g. to deliver messages to the market, and we are declaring that we are going to keep it closed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u105	The President looks like the best. Minister of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u106	It was called so much up ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u107	It was given a space of time ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u108	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for his report. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget who he believes is responsible for Article 3. law on the sale of the government's holdings on financial companies. Who is responsible for applying principles in dealing with sales treatments, the importance of these principles? It's a financial minister, isn't it? Or is it Bank Manager? I believe it's the secretary of finance and the Bank Office as well. I can refer to Article 2. that a minister should prepare a plan for the planned sale treatment. In the 5th. to report that the Minister should submit a report on sales therapy to the General Assembly. The question is, Is it not true that a minister of finance is responsible for the application of principles in dealing with the financial property of the State? I have my opinion that these regulations have been broken. I am not a court of law, I am not a judge. That's my opinion, and I'm trying to give reasons for that opinion. I believe the principle is that an independent research committee is set up, and I can reason with that. I would also like to ask the minister about certain points, specific principles for the sale program, e.g. for the practicality. It says in the Law that, with practicality, the highest price or market price for property is applied. How can it be practical for discounts? Now the pensions didn't get to buy as much as they wanted. Another question states: "What conditions were offered to offer, as stated in Leviticus? " par.? I've got the list of 207 that got to buy. The lowest bid is 1,100 you will., 1,124 you've got. K. [[The president calls.]] A million dollars was paid for by the public. [[The president calls.]] And this is what professional investors bought, and they can only weigh the risk. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The question is, What conditions were the offers given?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u109	A respectable president. It is obvious that a minister is responsible for the execution of the law, and, of course, the Bank Office is also responsible for the professional activity there to be carried out and to uphold the law on its function. What I think is. A senator is wondering, not just this, but how a minister can fulfill this responsibility. I think it's the key question here if they want to talk about it in some way. I believe the Minister will do by giving clear instructions, by giving instructions that are in accordance with the law, by listening to the managers who are written out in the process of reporting, by careful preparation and management, e.g. by discussing the case on the Minister's Committee and by consultation in the government, and then saying to the Bank County: that's exactly the way we want it to be done. The bank office then needs to sustain her by ordering her administration, and the board is also responsible to hire the president and ensure that things are legal. This is how we care for our responsibilities in a certain way. But if you do. A senator is suggesting that if somewhere in this chain of responsibility someone breaks the law with open eyes, if it doesn't have to be a minister of responsibility, I feel like he's gone into a ditch. [[Up front.]] - No. But this is the point. Then, too, people can talk about political responsibility. The political responsibility in my mind here is primarily about the policy of releasing part of the state's holdings on finance. It's a policy I want to speak for and I want to keep fighting for and I'm just proud of it. I believe we've been doing a good job, and I believe in the Icelandic public, with a large standing in the state funds, we've already benefited greatly from what has happened since we took over this large property share in Iceland Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u110	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his opposition, but he answered only the first part of the questions I knew the answer to in the first place. It is very good to ask such questions. However, he did not answer the question about the principle of practicality, that he would not seek the highest price. It was sold in an overexplication by discount. It's not looking for the highest price. I reiterate my question about the conditions: What conditions were set? Was there really no minimum value set? A person's ability to buy 1,124,954 k.? It was a professional investment that paid for this amount. The public bought over six months ago, 1 million. There's an increase of 125,000, and it's a professional investment. He could have weighed the risk to the market. Aesthetize is no more important than that. Is there really no bottom line on the conditions? I've thought it was billions of dollars, that this offer would have to be hundreds of millions of dollars in such a big business. There is another question about the level of reasonableness that was to take place. Were there not any conditions that required reasonableness and equality? The public is asking themselves that question, that is, in our discussion right now, who called. Yes, the names listed on this list I'm holding and others don't. I'm sorry, I'm not a professional investor. If I were a professional investor, I'd be in recognition of the violation of this law against the secretary of finance. I'd have tried it for real. I'm sorry, I have no legal interest in that. The question is, What conditions were set? There were no conditions. It's like a hulk, really. There's been a reference here to qualified investors, professionals, god knows what, and there was no requirement for equality or fair, no requirement for a minimum amount of money that these blessed professional investors were supposed to be able to offer, but that was entirely in charge of the sales advisers themselves. They called their friends and acquaintances and no one else, calling the ones they wanted to do business with in the future. [[The president calls.]] It was all fair and balanced. But what were the conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u111	A respectable president. Indeed, when it comes to practicality, it is being referred to trying to optimise the value of the property share. But it is also legal for us to achieve many other goals, e.g. To ensure market competition, the market. I'd like to let myself draw attention to what. About a year ago, a member of the Contestant Commission's review of the general campaign, which was deeply concerned that the bank would ultimately find its way only to the pension fund. Much concern was expressed because the pension fund was already large stockholders in the financial system and was very large in all companies at a competitive market in Iceland, and it would not be good if the pensions alone were to own banks. That's what I'm saying because of what I'm saying. A senator here spoke of the pension fund not getting all the things they wanted. I think it was just nice that they didn't get everything they wanted. I think the main thing was that we were achieving these main objectives of distribution of ownership, of diversity in the owners group. This is in view of what the Bank Management Board eventually offers for the success of these different targets, including the practicality. But the cost and cost, I think, is good. Hv. A senator uses that as a discount. I'd say there's really no discount. The target is asked on this day: What do we get for this amount of letters? And the answer was over 50 billion. The market answered that day what this amount of letters would be sold to if you were going to reach these proposed goals. Could it have been sold for a higher price? [[Up front.]] I can honestly believe that this item could have been sold at a higher price. I can quite believe it, especially if we had delivered the whole thing to one person. But we decided not to. I didn't hear anybody suggest it, actually, ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u112	President. Here's a question of legal responsibility. The minister has repeatedly said that he was not to make an assessment of each one's offer, that he should not choose the buyers. This is one of the rights and other wrongs, as goes on and on the case of a minister, to hide false information among other self - righteous truths. Of course, a minister should not hand-lord the buyers on political grounds, but at the same time a minister should still evaluate the proposals placed on the table in front of him on a professional basis, as detailed in the law on the sale of financial assets in the state, by permission of the president: The ensuing or registration of messages at a stock exchange is a process that differs from the standard offer. - And we're at an offer. ▪ As an example, there is no assessment of extraordinary offers or sort of negotiations with individual buyers when general invitations or registrations are conducted. The report also states: It is essential that the proposal and decision of the film have been made by these participants - and that is, the Minister and Bank County - guided by the criteria and conditions proposed for dealing with sales therapy - So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he understands this part of the report. How can this text be interpreted in ways other than that it is the responsibility of a minister to evaluate the individual proposals of a traditional offer, not political judgment, but a professional assessment of the conditions that the minister himself placed in his paper? Or were the only grounds and conditions that may have been set just for sale and quantity or, as a minister said in answer to earlier, that it was decided not to give the pension fund all the things they asked of him? Yet, the Ministry's report says that larger items are being sold, and that's why the offer is chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u113	A respectable president. There's been a while since I picked up time in the legal language, but it's not quite grown up and blown over it all. I hear what you're saying. A senator seems to have taken a hard look at the law, but I have to say, just as it is, he understands in principle the text he reads here when he says: " We are at an offer in the law. It's just wrong. This is a misunderstanding. I'm not going to trace it to a long case here, but this week, the Bank County lawyer gave an opinion on this point, and it's a pretty sensible reason for my opinion. That is exactly when a person goes to general or conducts an invitation that resembles something that is not a reason to go on to each occasion and consider their requirements. Here it must be remembered that we are, in fact, in a legal sense, in the reverse sense of an offer - yes, why. A senator can laugh, the jurist - because the State has already been told what the requirements are. You must be capable of investing, this is the price and, as it is said somewhere in English, itet or leave it. On the other hand, if you meet the criteria, everyone will be allowed to participate. All it takes is objective. If you meet the objective requirements and are prepared to pay the price, we will sell you, and we will not listen to any offer. There is no need for an offer. All you have to do is meet the requirements. That's what this is all about. Other than that, there is a misapprehension. I'm sorry about the song text.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u114	President. I don't get it all wrong. It's such a simple text we're dealing with. In the second answer, I would like to ask you a question about political responsibility. It has been observed in the reviews of experts who met with a budget board and in the Commission's review that in the initial discharges, such as IPO, the general expectations of both buyers and sellers are of the prices of the stocks oered at the source markets of about 5%, both buyers and sellers, if this objective was achieved, a 5% increase in stock markets. We're dealing with a 60% increase in stocks. That's what I'm saying. Minister to be just great because the rest of the bank is now much more valuable. Yes, it is much more valuable because there was so much lack of appreciation for the price, so 35% of the bank was sold at a sub price that cost us 30 billion dollars. It is the political responsibility of a minister to have done so. Thirty billion losses. The remainder is, of course, on the market today. Nothing wrong with that. But there is no such thing as an increase in its lack of appreciation. How does a minister feel about this as an acceptable treatment of state property?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u115	A respectable president. A written letter is worth more than an unregistered letter, such as a principle. And this by saying that a letter should rise by 5%, that it is written in textbooks, of course, is nonsense, absolute nonsense. What we did at the time was to get qualified counselors to help the bank office. We searched for information from national markets and abroad, and the best thing to do was to say just a good deal better than you thought in advance, especially the foreign demand. We have always evaluated the value of the bank in comparison to that of a similar bank in other countries. This is where we're still talking about the first sale. Actually, I'm here today to talk about the second sale, but fine, well, well. A senator is very angry with the general invitation from last year on, claiming that we have only open eyes selling banks at very low prices. I don't think it's going to hold any conclusions. That's just my opinion. I would point out that since we recorded the bank until the year it had passed, it had basically increased as much from the first day of business to the end of the year as it was in the records submitted to the council. Didn't raise the Tilting by this 5%, as a boy. A senator has found that there is a correct rise after registration. What happened in the case of Corporate, as assessed by that date. A senator? Why didn't the filtering process just rise by 5%, which had been written somewhere, to raise the number of companies after having been recorded? Oh, you know, I don't think there's anything else to say about this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u116	A respectable president. Yeah, let's go over this business professionally. There's been a number of things going on here at a Senate Hall since the U.S. Banker was discussed by the secretary of finance, including the U.S. in this piece a month ago. When a financial committee met the Bank Office shortly after the sale, the representatives of the Agency did not find it difficult to express themselves on the subject. The director and director considered nothing wrong with sales, implementation, and information flow. In the morning of an invitation, the minister of finance spoke of how successful the sales had been. He believed that pension funds had been made into a greater part of a stock market, away from it as the highest. The minister was saying right about this, and he would have been glad they had been impaired. Now we are faced with the failure of the Bank Management Board to communicate with a financial committee before a memo designed to be ready for the weekend is ready. The same individuals who showed up, and in a very unorthodox way, explained how great the hall was in a TV interview with the Morning Press not long ago. During discussions about the sale at the council on March 30, the U.S.A. Secretary of finance to have walked, and I directly testify, by permission of the President, to the entire scale of 6.5. He added: ▪ Of all of this, it can be seen that there is undeniably good reason to commend the government's bank administration for good results. This is the same man, a respected president, who was suggested that the Bank Office be laid down. Of course, you wonder what is really going on. I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew. The secretary of finance nothing at this Did he have no idea how the process was carried out? Did he know that it wasn't working well, but wasn't it true, or is it now playing out the bank county just to pick up dust? That's not reassuring. We talked about a month later about the small investors who were allowed to buy. I asked the highest. To this party on March 20 last year, a minister received the following answer, by permission of a president: Therefore, it is possible to ask, " Why would it have been such a minimum to participate this time because we would have said to the general investors, domestics, or foreigns who wanted to invest for one of these types of money both: You are undesirable? ' I don't know if there was a reason to do that. The case, a respected president, is that there is quite a number of evidence to suggest that there was a motive, such as. The government's law on the sale of assets in financial companies that refer to the need for an open sales process only if there is good reason. The reasons given in a memo from Bank County to the highest. The minister of finance, January 20, 2022, and a budgetary committee, found that an offering process is the best way to achieve prices and prevent economic movements. Little investors who sell themselves out, a respectable president, and who owe themselves fully for such an investment are very quick. Where did all these ideas come from that of big long - term investors? Are we all mistaken? It's the highest. The only one who understands what's going on? The case, a respected president, is that both of the above-defined sources from the long-term investor's open operation are referred to as being in the bank office's memoir to the highest degree. Secretary of finance for the sale of wording in a way that involves large long - term investments. Let us take a look at this memo last January 20, covering the facts. Let's start with a section that speaks of closing the invitation to qualified investors, which says, with permission: the centre of pension funds and stock funds in such tenders will always ensure an indirect approach to the public. It is then suggested that few people become key points when it is said that the Agency does not believe that the principles of distribution are being set aside, ◯am. due to the limitations of the direct involvement of the public in the sales of an proposal, where holding of Iceland banking is already more widespread than in all other registered banks in Iceland. In addition, public investors have to be able to buy things already in the bank at the market, to - exactly, it is very easy to buy small items in the posts. This does not require a discount for closed invitations. You will find: If it's first taken into account that domestic investors, the Bank Office believes that surveillance agencies like pension funds, business funds and insurance companies have balls and interests. They believe that the Agency has the same value for qualified individuals, but they had to suffer a degree of impairment in the original text. due to the large extras and the emphasis on the spread of property on the bank... In fact, it doesn't stand an opinion from an equal. There was no special reason for letting them out of equality, but this is the only place in the memo that speaks of these individuals. Next up, with President's permission: The government Department feels that pension funds will show a real interest in the auction. Thus, it is not unlikely that the largest fund will want to add its share to the maximum share... And let's go on: The government Department feels that pension funds will show a real interest in the auction. Thus it is not unlikely that the largest fund will want to add its share to its maximum share [...] Then many of them, along with insurance companies, would like to reach the index value of parts of Iceland banking for further sales. And what about the foreign investors who had so much importance? If it is next brought to foreign investors, there are many factors that indicate that they will be interested in further sales. Thus, in June of June, there was a considerable participation in foreign investors in the original text. Despite the fact that some foreign funds have been reduced to their positions in letters in the bank from the source, the share of foreign long-term investors has remained quite stable. Yes, it could not be understood that the goal was to sell the same foreign investors and sell them last time, which proved true. Parts who took warp to their last tender tenders and are now sending a message to the universe that this is a normal procedure for selling state property in Iceland. In the concluding section of this memo, we will discuss an important discharge from an open output. What special situation does this special arrangement require? Why do you go to the basic rules of the law? What does it say about these reasons? By permission of the President: ▪ From the above, you can see that the Lawgiver's will was to make exceptions, including the possibility of exceptions. if the sale of the less part of the Kingdom or other special circumstances calls for this. It is evident that by an proposal, the stock market is usually sold less property share than we general invitations or direct sales, as well as that the risk of active and triggering markets in Iceland banks could be estimated as a separate situation. This risk cannot be understood as different from that of a major investor who holds the long - term letters. It is not good for young people to come in and twist the letters if they are later in debt for sale. This entry went out of the window when little investors were allowed for good reason. V.E.G. In particular, a minister spoke before about the importance of not creating a market disorder but then sees nothing wrong with the fact that a number of people were invited to make a debt for a small object in this campaign. Finally, the memo says, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is clear, though, that such an arrangement is not fully in force with a principle of law No. 155/2012 about the opening phase and transparency. In this way, certain investors enjoy better rights than others, as the common people cannot directly participate and thus do not ensure total equality. In contrast, it is a standard practice for international stock markets considered the preferred method... Yes, and what's the routine of international stock markets? What did the president of the Bank Office say in an interview with the Morning newspaper on this traditional practice? Few big people, long-term investors. A respectable president. I'm going to stick around with this fat investor who seems to be a sidebar for an assignment that went well because of the highest level. Secretary of finance got 50 billion for it. It is not a good idea to allow for short - term investors who sell themselves out if they are worried about these quick movements. Thirty persons have been reduced. Let's just review this statement from the Bank Office as the highest level. Secretary of finance is so much concerned about making sure that some have sold themselves out. That's not true. There are 60 people who are not found on the shareholder list, many of whom are funded - that is, in this statement - their purchase at the bank with a loan that is very expensive to creditors in banks. It's the highest. Secretary of finance to know. This is practically unsurpassed to take a spin. When a month ago a minister of finance told him that he could not see the problem, he could not see the reason to say to the small investors: You are undesirable, there seems to be some misunderstanding. You see, there was a reason. This is not in accordance with the accessation given from this open process. You see, there are many indications that these joints, in fact, do not observe laws. This trend is widespread, a respectable president, to form in terms of equality or equality. When the State sells its shares to individuals, it sells $1.1 billion. K. Must a minister ask himself, " Is the law being done? ' How can you make sure that all qualified investors have access to purchases like this? This is a case of neglect if the question did not come to the secretary's door. It would have been another case if we had seen large investors with a ball volume, knowledge, long - term ability to stand with the bank. It's the law's exception. It would have been easy to see all these offers if there had been a traditional offer, which is repeatedly quoted in a memo. Then you can accept each offer. The red flag should have been there when the bank office she made comes up with a list of 200 people buying at the auction. This isn't a minister's red flag. He does not wonder: " Why are we giving an exception to a law for 200 people? V.E.G. A minister speaks of clear instructions. What was the clear command that this was in harmony with the law? There's a broken pot. These are the conditions to be met. I'll have to correct what happened earlier, that the proposal is an order that's an offer, it's not like that. It's a closed invitation. Those people who are selling for such an emissary can decide if there's a good reason. What would have been the highest. A minister would have made it if 1,000 people had made it to this list? Would he have just accepted all the offers? It's just not right, and it must be corrected in this room and this at the highest. Secretary of the budget to know or at least Get advice on it. For the impairment and the events that have been discussed here, e.g. not known for the mechanism of these impairments, including Because the Bank Management Board has not provided any data on this subject. All we know is that even In spite of the fact that they were to receive first priority as long - term investors, the financial minister of March 18, a pension fund was affected more than personal investors. It says that it will be looked at, in the process of implementing, and in the case of sufficient extra demand, that investors with a long-term investment will be reduced to short-term investments. We do not really know if this was the case. We only know here that before, it was the highest. According to a minister, it was all right to think that long - term pensions would be affected more than others. However, this is not what was stated in the verb court from the highest level. Minister. Apparently, the highest. Ministers are also happy to make it possible that the State's Penitentiary Fund is now buying a higher gang of about 30 million shares after these scattered few employees were allowed. Of course, this does not hold forward, holding back the wages of pension funds that are investing in public savings just to let them go, so that a few days later, some dozens of people can come and spin. The government's sales legislation on financial assets was set up for a reason, a respectable president. The fact that a minister of finance is sliding away from the law because he received 50 billion dollars. in the box - it tells itself that he doesn't realize the problem. From this review it seems simply to be clear that the secretary of finance seems to have been the most important factor in what he received, 50 billion, not who acquired anything or who made a profit at the auction and found nothing wrong. To me, that's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u117	A respectable president. I don't think it's fair for me. A senator coming in here talking about the Bank Office not wanting to answer the council when it's finished. A senator knows very well that the Bank Board will give a long written answer tomorrow and be at a meeting of the budget committee on Wednesday, just as it has been shown. And, yes, I still believe that this invitation has been successful in all the major standards; prices, distribution, diversity in the owners group; but that's what I went over in my earlier case, which we need to understand. I'm gonna ask myself not to say that I didn't know anything about anything, etc. However, I ask why. Senator: Wants to drive. A senator holding at Bank County? Does it feel that this is an desirable arrangement for future sales? All right. A senator for a minimum price during the council treatment? Write it down. Don't you think it's a senator? Got some. Don't you think a senator's presentation of this? All right. Does not a senator exist somewhere in the process that these things that she feels are so fundamental would be followed? I'm going to state that I don't agree with what you're having. A senator says, it's against the law not to participate in minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u118	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u119	There is no other way to understand why. A Senator - Can I Find Peace to Deliver My Speech? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Can I have peace? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Hv. In the symposium just before, a candidate said that it was a requirement to go somewhere else but to make a general invitation that only larger investors could get access. [[The president calls.]] That's why. A senator to say that laws were not met in this way when smaller investors are allowed, and here specifically, they are undesirable because they are created, while the real danger of hosting investors in this campaign is created? I'm gonna pray. A senator will answer whether the danger has been severed. What was the danger? Was it not a danger that the letters would be lowered in case all the investors would jump off and sell themselves out? But what happened after the invitation was that the shareholders increased and the price increased. [[The president calls.]] Where, then, is the present great danger? A senator has made the key subject of his speech today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u120	A respectable president. A lot of questions. Carrying on to Bank County? All I would do is demand that orders to the Bank County be clear. There is nothing fundamentally wrong with the Bank County per se. It may be possible who is in charge there, who is in charge, who is director, and what kind of instructions were given, and who followed them. I don't know what road trip to. Minister is trying to drag me by making me say that I want or don't want to stay in the bank office. It's not about Bank County. The question of why I, as a single senator, didn't see it coming. A financial minister would make a trip that is so out of a traditional practice in an offer, and I think it's quite remarkable. Why don't you just give me the keys? I'm not sure it's the best. A minister who should observe the procedure? When you're talking about the fact that the price wasn't lowered, then it wasn't safe - I wasn't talking about any danger. I read a memo full of facts that had come to members of the council and that almost all of them were. Subjects sitting in this hall could understand this design so that long-term investors would be involved and talking about the market risk was thus being meant not to date fast-traveling agents. It's going back and forth in things. I can only say that I didn't think, I didn't have an idea in, to the highest. The Ministers and the Bank Office were so shocked by the traditional offer process that as a single senator, I would have to enter the highest office. Secretary of finance and tell him what business practices are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u121	A respectable president. Then we know why. A senator wants to stay in Bank County. Hv. A senator did not suggest that there would be minimal prices in the invitation, and then he asserts that it does not fit in with the stock market in order not to set minimum stock outputs. But it's a matter of growing up that I've asked about this specifically and got the answers from the bank's leading adviser, SOD, as they call, that it's not customary in the stock market to put minimal prices in tender discharges, it's not the norm, on the contrary. A senator claims. This was a requirement that lawyers and others who were going to be involved need to be general investors, be qualified, and have to pay the price. That was basic. Hv. One senator says that we shouldn't have had these little things because they're bad for the process, they're on fire, and this could cause some anxiety in the market. Then when I ask where this grave danger has gone down, there are no answers. There won't be any answers - if you don't. A senator might stop talking for a little while while while I'm talking, maybe I could finish my talk - there's no answers because the letters went up after the invitation, even if some people sold themselves out. Don't lay down. A senator would rather not sell his letters after the invitation. So the reference here is to some extreme danger. A senator claims to have foresaw ahead of time. The threat did not work out, the letters continued to rise, and the government funds were made each day during the rise and have gained many billions, perhaps 10 billion, since the tender eviction, 10 billion. So these in themselves are just thoughts about things that did not happen. It's amazing to listen to this. Hv. A senator with a lot of postambourage here, mentioned none of these in advance, and then asserts that this is the standard practice of stock markets when my information from the bank's chief adviser is not about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u122	A respectable president. I can't help but thank you for the confidence I'm showing that I should have seen the whole thing coming. I don't know any better than I'm not responsible for this process. I'm the highest. Secretary of finance. It's the bank business that's got information, the budget is on duty, and if there was something vague that wouldn't have been flaunted, it would have been the bank management that was supposed to fly it. For a minimum point, there is no doubt that if this principle is to be violated - we need to remember what is the spirit of the laws under which property is being sold. It's an open process, an equal. If you have a job cut by an open process, cut equality, then you must have a good reason, that it is the nature of the investors that really matters, to allow those who are going to stand by the bank and have knowledge. Why is that, as I was reading in this memo and the highest. Clearly, a minister was not paying attention, that it repeatedly suggests that there is another way to go? Almost everybody understood, I'd say maybe over 80% of Icelanders, that this was the point. Then we're turned out of here. No, I didn't see this in advance. I didn't think of the highest. The secretary of finance would do this way, but if I had sat in his chair, I would surely have done this differently, if I had got access to all the information as the highest. In addition to receiving single members of the Parliament's check-up committees, the minister of finance received more than one member of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u123	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for this fine discussion that is taking place here, as we try to figure out the things that were going on through the sale of the government in Iceland Bank. Sitting on a financial committee, we received a fine presentation on this assignment and came to a guest on the subject. I've got to tell you my way, and I'm gonna say it right here, and now I was pretty happy with the presentation we got. Things were handled well there. The day has since come when there are certain offenders in the process, and it has been discussed considerably today, which we did not foresee many members of the committee. I suppose that applies to more people who have been looking at things from outside the room. So it is important that we consider why we went on to reduce the share of the government in Iceland Bank. The process began, as most know, a year ago that sold about 35% of property. It is in the government's covenant that we continue to sell things, and now we deal with, and take over 22% of those who passed through this requested invitation, closed to my understanding, where qualified professional investors - men have been discussing whether they are talking about professional investors or qualified investors in this context - and have made a good account of it here in a very large number of speeches. The first and first goal of promoting economic competition was at hand. It must be that as we move on to reduce the share of the state of finance and contribute to the wide range of healthy and distributed holdings over time and to improve investment opportunities for domestic and professional investors, one of the goals is to reduce debt and increase the State's scope for social and profit - making investments that are extremely important in this context. After what has happened, it is quite clear that the government funds need to be paid up. I believe that it has been successful in a number of cases with regard to these goals. But it remains with this open and transparent process. As the days pass and more are examined, the way has been made clear by stewards, both Prime Ministers, Prime Ministers of the Organization, and Ministers of Economic Affairs and other executives, has been made known, is that they are going to review the matter, and the Economic Affairs is very important in this regard to rolling over with all stones. We cannot continue this trade process until we have rolled all the stones and see what happened. Why did this come about in the invitation? Why is the conclusion quite different from what we had discussed in committees? There must have been some shards. There's been a lot of discussions about the Bank Office and her access to the case. For example, she has kept our presentations, established a budget board twice after this sale, and I'm not going to list it any further, it's been observed by other speakers who have described their approach to how they felt they had been successful. I have to say that I was very disappointed that the Bank Office has taken the way they have gone this morning to avoid being able to represent a financial committee and has not been able to answer the questions we asked on April 7 of which, to remind me, and then, April 13, was added. It would have been very good for this discussion today to have had the answers to the questions asked by the legal committee. I think the discussion here today would have been a lot more informed and that we had some more answers on our hands. I think it's very important to have it in this, because we can always go looking for these things. It's, for example. one thing that has gone terribly hard on a number of people, including me, is the amount paid for sales fees, 700 million. It is only natural that the sales advisers or those who were responsible for selling letters to the bank county will accept a certain sale welcome, which is usually limited to some percentage. It's usually between 2% and 3%. In this case, the percentage is taken, if I've calculated this correctly, 1.4% and, yes, it's certainly a lower fee in percent, but it doesn't change that 700 million is a lot of money. Indeed, it was being handled there with a talent of 306 days in the market, in the annual market over 50 billion in question there, but 700 million are still, although the percentage is low, i.e. 1.4%, a lot of money. I understand that a lot of people are getting chested. If we were to think about it, which has been a lot of talk about, i.e. Who is responsible for everything, I'm not going to sit in some special court seat here in the Public Court and tell you who's responsible for it. But I view all of us who came to some part of the matter in the process and did not make comments about the process properly certainly have some responsibility for it. You can't take responsibility when you don't have - yes, you were at work, received a lot of information, but you didn't comment. I'm not going to take responsibility for it, and I hope that those who took part in this work and did not in themselves, as you say, take it to heart too. In this context, we have to look for the importance of the decision and review of the Council simply to avoid making the same mistakes again. I can also be there that if we feel that it is so important that we need more information from their investigation, then I am the first man to be measured to set up a council hearing that will continue with the investigation. We must also keep in mind that the latecomer, or the SEC, now in there, has a wide range of research clearances. Target, yes, I can say I'm fine with our price. That's just where I'm cool with it. There's a lot of people at the bank. Of course, there are large stockholders about 77% of the total share money, but there are a lot of stockholders in there and there's no problem with buying things and selling stock markets if that's the case. There's nothing unnatural about that. We also received excellent explanations on what I am saying is that when there are some restrictions on how people use property after it has been bought, it can have a negative impact on the success of the invitation, and many examples were mentioned in this context. This was the way we decided to go, and most of the pieces signed up because they believed that they were getting the highest price. I still believe that I am, but I reiterate once again that the conclusion was not based on the expectations put in my mind, so it is very important that this should be investigated. Then we can start to wonder how we will continue to reduce the government's ownership of Iceland, but it is said that once the process ends that the state has sold all its shares at the bank, I and the rest of the candidates believe that they will be stopped and the place of the Lands Bank for as long as possible. I hope he stays on state leave and I think it's very important that there be a private development in financial institutions at home. A respectable president. I'm not going to have this further than thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here today. Certainly, the discussion would have been much better if we had received answers from the Bank Office to questions asked by a financial committee three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u124	Madam President. Hv. A senator expresses deep frustration with this whole matter; confessing his own responsibility, saying that those involved and not making comments about the process have some responsibility, would not accept that responsibility. I want less of it. The senator is required that the majority of the budgetary committee do not sign off on final sales. It's the highest. A secretary of finance who does so. It has been shown to be at the highest level. The minister of culture and trade has expressed his doubts about this process before the sale, claims to have expressed his opinion on the Minister's Committee and the Government. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator would know if he had been at the highest level. A minister has expressed his doubts about this process at the Assembly of the Agency, or with some members of the Parliament on the road, on the tunnel, or elsewhere, in two people's mouths, whether he remembers that he had expressed some doubts about this matter together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. For one thing, I realize it's a financial minister who's signing up the process. But what I meant in my speech is that you didn't comment, and certainly you're responsible. However, that question, with the question raised to the vice president of the Future Party now suggests that I do not sit in these committees or in the government and what is being held at the council meetings, is not usually discussed in public. But whether the minister has personally discussed this with me - the answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u126	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the council before the previous answer and reiterates my question: Did a secretary of business express doubts about this process at a council meeting or at a council meeting in any way possible? Second, I want to return to responsibility, and of course, it is respectable to do so. A senator takes full responsibility for this, or some responsibility, so I now use the wording of the senator. It has now been found that in this closed and opaque tender outlet, the handler group was the father of financial ministers and minor members with negative financial resources. Counts 'em out. A senator at the highest. A minister of finance carries some responsibility under the law, for we must look at what he must do, what he should do, and what he must be absolutely clear about that? Now we're the lawgiver, so I want to ask you what. A senator if he thinks it's the highest. There's some responsibility for the secretary of finance here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First to the responsibility, and whether to the highest. The financial and economic secretary is responsible for all of this, so I can't understand that, so he's the sole responsibility. There's a process, like what happened. A senator is well aware of who has been present, so there are all those involved, and certainly it is the secretary who makes a note of the auction. Whether it has anything to do with his father or anyone else, these were the rules that men played there. And that's what I'm talking about, that this is one of the things we were supposed to anticipate when we discussed it, that it could happen, that this could be played out of the cards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u128	President. Hv. A senator says we should have anticipated something. But what do you think? A senator of the time the body board was able to resolve this matter? The Ministry set a time limit for the council: please understand this before this time. Period. As a result, the goal was to sell within this window, which comes after the year's development. It was ready, and that was the goal. Did the committee have plenty of time to meet and really understand the whole context? There's a lot of government laws, the Minister's Accounting Act, the Bankiscation Act, and the sale of the holdings of the state's holdings of finance, which is supposed to ensure great things so that we don't have to worry about it, but only if it's done right by them. I don't see that these shards that are about to come up are something we could've prevented and flaunted in some committee opinion because it's in the law. We just didn't have enough time to figure out enough stuff for like that. what are larger shareholders, what was meant by it. [[The president calls.]] There was no time to ask more about it. What do you think? A senator about the duration of the Senate committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. True, the time we received was limited, but we tried as we were able to do our work well and returned. True, once, we were given a measure of time, if I recall correctly, in order to get a better hold on the matter. Would it have been different if we had more time? I can't really answer that. True, we were prepared to give up a certain amount of time, but if that had changed the outcome, I do not know. You can't see what you see today when the results are made from the invitation. Then you can always be wise in the future. That's what I was saying back here. Whether time was there playing a big part, I can't answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u130	President. In this uncertain situation, time certainly helps. But because of the way this process was all set up, the way the council was set up for the Commission, the council to oversee, because it was the highest. A secretary of finance who has messed up other matters, such as some. at least I didn't sign the fact that I trusted the highest. Minister for selling the bank. The time that came to review the matter here at the council was inevitable. I wondered why others do not reach that conclusion too. I would not say that I had come to another conclusion with an extended period of time or at that point. A senator would have come to another conclusion with an extended period of time. But there are definitely things that we could have asked more and more accurately about that we simply did not have time to do. There is a possibility that the conclusion would have been different if we had had had more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u131	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is often the question of if and had. You never know what if. [[Up front.]] Yeah. I think I did okay in my speech that it was a fine job that took place, and surely we were under a certain amount of time pressure in this too. But it's impossible for a person to claim that we who supported this course had changed our mind or attitude. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson would have changed his mind. So neither of us can answer. It's only once like that. But surely it would have been more comfortable and better, after which we shall see that we have had more time. If it had changed our conclusion, I can't answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u132	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson for coming up here and keeping a sincere, honest and perfunctory speech where you found here in the Senate a certain despair or anguish, and a tiny piece of paper lying around, over the fact that this was a failure. It's exactly so that this case, this big and important case in my opinion, I'll go over it afterwards--that it's messed up. However, attention has been made to the highest level. The minister and vice president of the advance party have, with a measure of courage, made protests against such a course. The question has been asked whether he called attention to this and took the initiative within the Congress of progress. I hope and I know what to do. A senator is not breaking any confidence even if he simply tells us here to the highest degree. This is exactly what the minister and vice president of the forward party presented and expressed his opinions within the Congress of the forward movement. I'd appreciate it if you could make that clear: Just yes or no, you know. Minister of this? With this is, I think, never been breaking anyone's confidence. This is important in the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator doesn't quite know if I break my confidential beliefs against my companions, but I'd rather evaluate it myself. It's just the way it is for me and the senators, and I assume that it's that way in other councils too, that what's going on at the council meetings is off the record. But I'd also like to point out my answer to a question why. paritaprevir Helga Vala the daughter of Helgadóttir earlier when she asked if this case had been discussed personally with me by vice president, I said no. I hope so. A senator respects the fact that I believe in what is going on at council meetings. But when things are spoken to me personally, I let myself tell about them as they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u134	A respectable president. I respect this, because it's perfectly clear that when it's the highest. The minister will be here later this week, and she'll be asked about this. It's a big deal, and it matters - I talked about the big movie earlier - to realize how it was presented there. I see here the name of the prime minister, who, in fact, has, in fact, indirectly, been scrambling the flock's backup form. It's very remarkable, I think, maybe insignificant, too, how much. Since the vice president of the advance party has had this clear view of traveling a different route than the state's fund has since returned, the prime minister has been doing so. This is not some minister. This is not just the vice president of the advance party. This is a business minister. This is the minister of business, and he's been on the Secretary's Committee for Economic Affairs. For us, for the Senate's surveillance role, and to see the context, the time line, it should explain this so that we try to figure out why we're in this mess with the bank sale. [[The president calls.]] It is important that he has kept on the watch in this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's once, so I don't make it my habit to repeat what I've just answered before. But I'd like to introduce it here, just to be completely sincere in what they're saying here in talks, and to reiterate what I said before in my speech, that a certain part of you doesn't fit when we were going over this campaign and the conclusion leads to a certain disappointment. It's just that way. I think it is very important for us senators that when they think they can do better than they have done at their jobs, they should admit it too. And that's what I'm doing here, that we could have done better in winning the case to make a point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u136	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine speech. This weekend, the highest step. The minister of finance mocked and mocked members of the council. He said, so let me quote him right: many of those who attended this meeting - i.e. where the planned bank sale was introduced - now says, "I'm coming from the mountains. It didn't tell me, even people who's on the committee here at the Council. It looks like the highest. Minister at least not to refer to the government because we were not considered to recommend it. He must be referring to, for example. Þórarinn, the son of Pétursson, who regrets this, or is wondering about it afterward, even to the point. paritaprevir The comics of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who has spoken in this very way. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council is impressed with his opinion of this case of the minister of finance with members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u137	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his answer. About the question of how I feel about the ultimate comment. The financial and economic secretary in this context is the highest. Financial and economic ministers have their own opinion of that. If we'd had the same information as the highest. A minister in this context may not be in the position we are today. Neither would we be discussing the things right now that I was discussing, and we are exchangeing opinions, I and I. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. How do I feel about that? It is likely that when humans have access to further information and even more, it is likely that we would need to do our homework more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u138	A respectable president. It speaks of information, and in fact it suggests that information was kept from the Council in this process. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: If so, is that not exactly the responsibility of the minister of finance? It wasn't the Bank Management Board that set up the council with a report. That duty, that responsibility, lies on the secretary of finance itself. If this is the goal, which, in fact, is the best. A minister spoke of himself when I asked him what subjects the government was referring to - or, indeed, the political point of understanding, have revealed in her declaration - he mentioned information and transparency. Counts 'em out. A senator that these are critical factors that are specifically responsible for the bank office rather than for the Minister? If he is concerned only with the law and this responsibility that a minister has for the Council, when he brings in a report for both the Economic and Business Committee and the Fundal Committee, then there is a reputation. Not a bit of a heavy sentence for a senator over the highest court. Secretary of finance? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u139	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think that the above - mentioned words are highly opinionated. Secretary of finance and economics. It's got the highest self. Ministers, as presented earlier in the discussion, were being critical of the exact same thing that I was criticizing in my speech and facing information flows and transparency. And because of what? The senator referred to a comment made by a minister during the days that was likely in the context of giving a witness to other members of Congress rather than to what is said here because the man here has not expressed himself on these matters before. If I answer briefly in this regard, I don't think it is, and I also believe that there has been a fairly clear statement in the case of a minister earlier today that the matter must be taken down into the stitches of the case of his initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk is because I have not been able to get over my stand. Senator on sale at the bank. On the budget, we returned a report on the sale, and I know why. A senator later returned something, and unfortunately I couldn't find it when I was looking in my files. So I'm a little thirsty to know, first of all, " Count back." A senator that's supposed to be on state property for Iceland? Counts 'em out. A senator just found it wrong to sell an Iceland bank, so maybe it's only natural that the state has two of three business banks? Second, when and if the state has a bank, it counts. A senator normally stated that it is within the arrangement set up at the time when the banks came into the arms of the state through the Bank Office and then with this so - called Arms extension? Third, count back. A senator who, despite having the arrangement for the Bank Office, and hence the length of the arm, is that a minister should, however, cross each and every one of the proposals and agree? And if any. A senator believes that this is the way the law is, I just ask: "Do you feel it? That's right for a senator? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator wanted a politician, the highest. Secretary of finance, would each one of the buyers of this campaign have been examined and said that this one was qualified to buy and this one would not, despite the conditions set in the campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u141	Madam President. I appreciate the questions. First, have two banks. No, I think it's totally pointless for the state to have two banks. When there is only one bank in the state, people who want to do business with bank banks have to do business. I don't think it's really complicated. Bank Administration and Arms: I think the arrangement with the Bank Commission is fine, how it is determined that a member of the bank is following, is offering advice to a minister, a minister can search for history, set goals, professional goals on handling sales, sales being carried out, and then the Minister will consider whether the job has been conducted and then sign. I don't think there's anything wrong with this process, but you can screw it up. Sadly, because people are people, all these aspects of the process are becoming a failure. Although we throw it out and replace it with something else, it is still people who are involved in the process that can screw things up completely. I don't see much of the idea that the Bank Office is put up with. I can see exactly where the arm length is, etc. How the minister, who is the last question, should review some proposals - that is extremely important. I've been taking the case like that. when a minister's choice was passed on behalf of the U.S. National Court. It is clear that a minister could take the story to himself and make changes, had to do it only out of reason and on professional grounds, not political grounds. So no, a politician is definitely not supposed to enter this offer and say, according to my political opinion on these and the other, and go away, but is to be done on professional grounds. We have many examples of how to do so in government laws and other matters. [[The president calls.]] As soon as it becomes a political decision to throw one out, and so on. We're talking about the misuse of power, of course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. If we really agree, which I haven't experienced, that there is a reason to sell the banks - I sometimes feel that many in here speak in this way: No, we don't have to have them. Still, there is never the right time or the right way to sell banks. But given the answer, why? The senator seems to agree that it is not exactly a reason for the State to have two of the three companies and, as a result, it is normal to sell. The process on with the Bank Office was just to put on this length of arm. I understood why. A senator would agree with it and sense it. I can't see that at the same time we can speak about this arrangement, that this is the sensible thing, that I agree absolutely, and many reasons agree, but then tell the other side that the secretary should go over the list that had been entrusted to the Bank Office to sell and take out some party without us breaking against this armpantry principle that the Bank Department is all about. I have to admit, a respectable president, that I don't understand the structure at which it is. Senator. I feel like I'm turning the conversation upside down. If the highest. A minister should have examined each offer, on what grounds should he have taken someone out of the list when the Bank Office was committed to the invitation, and there were clear rules? We may disagree or disagree with the rules, and we may want to have acted differently from them, and there is no evidence to suggest that, at any given time, there has been some violations of those rules. But clearly, we're supposed to go over it, and if it's been broken, we have to step in and take action again. But the rules were clear. So I ask again why. Senator: Is it really possible to argue that a minister could have taken someone out of this list?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u143	President. Of course, it is a minister to offer a grammatical argument. V.E.G. a judicial minister tried and failed miserably, could still try and possibly have come up with some more reasoning if he had tried harder, I don't know. In this case and compared to the list, and here I'm just a falslera - I've taken a few examples and have done so in the community debate of parties who didn't seem to be a suitable professional investor. It is the condition that was set so that a minister could say: I'm sorry, I want to see if this person is definitely qualified for professional investment. He is not making a personal decision, he is having all of the conditions determined. [[Up front.]] That's the professional diagnosis of it. That's the basis and conditions that the Minister put into the trade process. He is taking it back to see if the result is accordingly or not. If someone does not seem to meet these requirements, he asks for a diagnosis or logical support. If you don't -- here's a guy who's buying for $1.1 million, and he can only buy in the market. The idea was to sell for a bigger object. Let's throw out all those people we have under 5 million or something. It's just bullshit. We're not selling these people on offer. We're selling bigger sources for weeks, anyway. That would be a perfunctory basis under the terms of a minister of his own. I understand very well that the Ministers or members of the Independence Party did not get this, because I have never seen a minister of the Independence Party get this. They always go into this on political terms, according to their own heart: I'm a lawyer, and I just feel like this. That's wrong, always wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u144	A respectable president. It's been a brilliant discussion here today, quite safe to say. There's been a lot of things here that I'm not going to repeat in particular. From the very beginning, it has been quite clear that councilmen and ministers of the left green have made clear because of these opinions that have come up with the sale of Iceland Bank. It is very important that the exact handling of this sales is being done, and, of course, it is very sad that we should not have the Bank County come to a meeting with a financial committee that would have been of some benefit to us in this discussion today. We've looked at this so that it's right to start an investigation with institutions we trust to do such a thing and are intended to do so, in this case Government Accounting, which is independent of their work. She has already begun her research on the matter as well as on the Marine Department, which examines what is involved in their monitoring factors. We have also said that these studies reveal further failures in this process of sales, we will, of course, evaluate whether or not we need to start a special research committee on the matter to further clarify it or after events, if so, will take place in some other process. It's important to keep it up, too in this relationship, because we've talked a lot about the direction this is going to take, of course, that we know this time that follows the NTSB and it's a lot longer and we need to get at least some basic findings in the first case. That's why I think it was the right thing to start an investigation by a government accountant. The legislation on research committees states that the establishment of an investigator, that prior to presenting it, a special assessment of the cause and basis of the investigation, the potential for its magnitude and limitability, and the availability of other measures, is to be made. I believe we're in this process, i.e. Following these laws and using the resources we already have. I really hope that we will achieve the answers of these parties before Congress ends this previous part of the summer. Regarding the future contributions of the bill of surrendering the government's bank administration, the debate has subsided to a large extent on political responsibility and that it is thrown into the ocean by this covert, that the Bank Commission will become a scapegoat for the mismanagement of the government and the greater part of the Council. I don't agree with this. I believe that this, including some, is a political responsibility. by publishing the list of buyers, which the Bank Management Board did not intend to publish, so I believe the line was quite clear. We set out to put the hall above any doubt and trust in it. It's obvious that it hasn't worked out. Of course, we can see this only on a social response. That is why it is of utmost importance that we get the Bank Office to review all this process and all the questions that the Committee certainly sent to the Agency. I'd like to now say that for my part this is the last play of this institution, perhaps the last thing you'd like to say is to reduce the decision to put it down. It's very sad to have had to postpone this meeting that was supposed to be this morning, it's stalling our whole patrol work. I believe the Bank Office had plenty of time to answer most of the questions that we members of the council sent her to bring Easter. In fact, I have said that, and I believe that the answers to most of the questions that went away from a financial committee should have been actually in the presence of the sale or the auction. So I don't deny that they take a lot of time to answer that question. Of course, all of us are deeply at odds with this situation, and it has been said here that more will not be sold until we have reached the bottom of this matter. We need to improve the legal environment in some way, and we need to ensure the better approach and coverage of the council, improve our systems by making adjustments, especially in order to try to make peace with the future government sales. We do not do this without necessary improvements, and they are already there. I mean, about what's been discussed here, too, and I'm gonna come in on, i.e. When the presentation was done for the most likely two committees, both financial and economic and business committees, I'm quite surprised that the order had been carried out in the way it eventually did. It is not possible to assume that all committees are experts in selling financial institutions, and it would certainly have been good to have a deeper and more detailed explanation for the budgetary committee on the part of the bank. I knew, for example. not and had not considered it specifically whether it would be wise to set floors on minimum investments, whether it should be 50 million or 100 million, or what money would be over a reasonable head, or would it be wise for those who bought to sell until after one year, two years, six months. This I think could have gone deeper into the discussion, and it would have been good for us to have received additional information from those handling it and going on this process because we are not all experts in selling financial institutions and not necessarily certain at once what questions would have been wise to ask. This teaches you that there are many things you can take care of, and you need to think a little more. I don't know what the future will be. But I just agree that all discussions were in the presence, as we've seen many times, that it was a big investment for a long time, and although it stood somewhere in one line that more people found that somehow it was never on tables because the presentation went out that we were looking for investors for a longer time, which were also investing big and could stand by the bank. So the nature of the case is the reason why we are surprised to learn how many little bought, as this has been traced. I accept criticism in this regard. It's not something you had imagined would be done. There is work ahead on a budget committee, and hopefully we'll be able to meet up with an answer tomorrow as we have been promised, since we committees can give us time to study the answers there that can help us understand this situation and whether something went wrong. We can criticize the process itself and have various opinions about it all together; the result, the price, and the god can know what, there may be differences of opinions about it, but underneath there are certainly things we have, I, most of us, or all critical. The fee, for example, was to be cheaper and better out for government funds to do this in this way and that some sales advisers had even purchased or purchased them or something like that. This is all something that hopefully is revealed in these answers so that we can make an informed decision, for it is very difficult to take an informed discussion about it compared with what we already have. It's never good to be faced with that afterwards, and I think it's justified, that the process somehow failed, or that those who directed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. The chairman of the budget committee for this speech and just want to say that it would be wishful to conduct at the highest level. The minister of finance would be similarly aware of this puzzle. Chairman; that this process is shown a measure of humility, speaking in the way of the council and the general public that the abuse of common sense is not being done. Because it's just a fact that if it talks like a duck and walks like a duck, it's probably a duck. I just want to say here that this story makes me feel reasonable in this regard so that, of course, there is a possibility that this financial hearing should have been seen by a financial committee is not normal. So I want to ask you why. Chairman of who she believes is responsible for this imbalance in production. Who is responsible for the fact that we are stuck with a group of buyers who look completely different from all the financial committees listed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As we have seen here, the Bank Department was given to take on this process, which, in fact, gives us very limited information about what it involves. The minister is always responsible in the end, of course. In my opinion it is that a minister is responsible, and I think he may not have cut anything specifically under the responsibility that it is finally his. But as I said in my history, I'm sorry because I think that if we had received more detailed and more careful information from the meeting we had with the Bank Office, we might not be standing in this situation today. I think we had at least... Enter a completely different opinion for Ministers to start this process in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u147	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer. Chairman of the budget board. In fact, I have to disagree with the Supreme Being. The minister of finance is not aside from responsibility. I was just in the middle of something reasoning with the highest. Minister who wanted to mean to include We who are on a budget are responsible not to have asked these questions. That's why I feel that there's a little bit of a difference between the highest. The secretary of finance and then the chairman of the budget board, and I just know that there is no general opinion within the left green on this matter. But I'd kind of like to have such a general opinion. The chairman of the budget for a speech speech speech at the highest level. The supernova minister of finance yesterday, in effect dismissing all criticism of this matter. In view of the fact that we are in that position in this process, do you think that we are now to be laid down by an entire government agency? A secretary of finance came from vacation and said that nothing has gone wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u148	A respectable president. I guess I'm one of the few people who didn't hear the explosion field because I was talking about a mountain divorce with a farmer in Langanes built at the moment. Then I was just on my way south to Reykjavík and like a dog. A senator knew I was also quite a lot of words in the bank office yesterday and trying to get my hands on this. I just admit I haven't heard the interview yet. But I've heard of it, speech at the top. Minister there. I'm not going to make any particular assessment. I just disagree that something hasn't gone wrong. I feel at least That's it. I can't judge it until I have something in my hands. That's why the answers are important from Bank County, that we get to see a little bit of this, what it looks like, but at least I feel like today I don't think it's all worked out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u149	President. There are two things I would like to get past you. A senator; on the one hand, it is the trial of a financial committee and the time for which the Ministry of finance ordered us to submit. What kind of treatment is it that the Council's role as well as the professional practices of the Council that the Council's Commission operates under the supervision of the council may try to pick up and direct the way the council operates? The second is that in all of this process, we find, of course, evidence that there is a possible market abuse where salesmen sell related sources and so on, there is a certain rumor that is certainly good for research, etc. But the fact is, financial minister sold his father a share at the bank. And it wasn't at general outlets, it would have been fine at the premiere, there would have been no comment to it, there's all got access to it. But in a closed tender, isn't that a obvious problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. With regard to the committee hearing: Yes, I was very interested in our meeting the time we were asked to spend inside, and we once had a little while. The Economic and Business Committee returned quite a bit later, and if I had been aware that it was, I would have taken more time on a budget too. But I wasn't really aware of it until it was over and we had finished our work. It's not postamism, but I think it would have been good for us to have more time and maybe just deepened the discussion. Yeah, there's always a problem when someone sells the party, whether there's a dealer, like we hear about here, or not, and then, of course, it's about selling something like your father's. It's certainly something that's, in my opinion, in a gray area, let's say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u151	President. Because I spoke with members of the council at my place, including the U.S. A representative of the Economic and Business Committee, I knew a financial and business committee was going to return it later. I don't know why it didn't show up in a council of the greens, in conversation, because we shared information about things we could have in a committee party and stuff like that. I'm surprised it hasn't happened in the council of the left green. But I'd like to know why. A senator of it: Why is it only a gray area when a minister of finance, with all its power, sells a family member state business? Why isn't that black territory? There are exceptions, it's all right when a minister has nothing to do with it. What seems to have happened is that a minister seems to have tried not to get anywhere in this process, just signed it with a length of arm. However, the duties of a minister in the whole process, in a closed outing, are in such a way that he should never have been able to sell a government to his father. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u152	A respectable president. This may be what we're talking about, and people are trying here. I feel like, for example. The law on Bank County, the sale share, not enough. I don't feel like they're putting their arms around it. We're arguing about it here. I didn't understand the length of my arm at the time; when these laws were passed, I didn't understand it so that it could only cover a daily business. I also understood that it was to prevent all political interference. I don't know. I'm not sure if I was a financial minister, I'd have liked to review each and every one of them. I'm sorry, no matter whether we want to be professional or not, there's always a political assessment of what you're doing. It's just that way. If Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, would have reviewed each and every offer, and would have asked, like the other. A senator has come in here before, some additional information or such - I think we also sit here and discuss his incompetentness in what he was doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u153	A respectable president. Somehow, I'm a little confused about listening to management language. Before the weekend, it was the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter made it very clear that there had been a number of challenges and that they were the bank office side. They would have carried out the project and the construction of the Bank Office. In effect, she dismissed the fact that the minister of finance had been misconstrued. When we talk about this today, we've made quite another sound because I've heard two members of the budget, both Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson and the chairman of a legal committee, putting in very strong criticism of the information given to the General Assembly in this process. If we look at 2 g's. The legal management of the government's holdings of financial assets makes it clear that any contact between the Generals with the government for the sale of banks is being carried out by the Minister himself. Not Bank County. Yes, of course, the Bank Office also serves as a reviewer and for further information, but it is a minister who presents the reports. [[The president calls.]] The information supply and transparency have been compromised, but there must always be a minister's responsibility. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then, in fact, this is a very harsh criticism of the secretary of finance, the members of the budget, the government, are here to state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm saying that I completely agree that certain aspects of the project need us, at least, at least. ... andthenwe'llaskthe members of the Committee to Re-Elect Questions to the Bank County. Nor do I have anything to say that a minister of finance has been miscommunicated, as it were. A senator spoke up, so he could not tell him anything about whether it was that way. As we've been through here, too, of what. There was no problem with the United States Parliament during this discussion, with the paper we had in hand, and there were clear instructions to follow what was to be taken from the Ministry of finance and finance. However, I have not felt that the project was going exactly as we expected it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u155	A respectable president. Now I'm just more confused because just a minute ago, I criticized. A senator and a chairman of the budget lack of information and the lack of the transparency and presentation that a financial committee would have received would not have been in harmony with what was to come. I couldn't understand her from now on, but she says that she does not quickly see that a minister of finance has been miscommunicated. It is the secretary of finance that submits the report in which all basic information on the sale process should be developed. If this information fails, it's not the responsibility of the Bank Office. Well, then it's the responsibility of the secretary of finance unless, in some form of principle, the Bank Management Board has taken the lead from the Prime Minister and Minister, has not wanted to admit it today that the Bank Office has done so. He and the rulers have not provided an example. I think the board members must somehow harmonize their language better because they don't have a stone on a rock. [[The president calls.]] We can't be asked to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u156	A respectable president. I disagree. I'm going to allow myself to disagree with the fact that some misleading information is involved. I said that the letter that came from the secretary of finance had clear instructions on what to do. In my speech earlier, I said that the information at the meeting, where the Bank Board reviewed the arrangement, why this way was better than others, and what was in it, could have been more detailed. Other members of the council have entered it, exactly that. It's where I said I'd wanted us to go deeper into things, why things were so or gay, because I'm not an expert on selling banks. I didn't know exactly what ten questions to ask, so the information would have to be even more detailed on these means, as it were. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir came in specifically, why e.g. was ousted from having such a small investment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the legal committee for the talk she gave earlier. Only that political responsibility because it was established in the talk here what the political responsibility was in this case, and I hardly really meant to believe my own ears when it came out. It is a political responsibility to publish a list of buyers, was told before. Chairman of the budget board. Enlightening the public about who is buying the property of the common people is no political responsibility. It's just a matter of course, and it's supposed to be a normal part of everything like this every time we're dealing with public property. Then, on the part of the Bank Office, it is stated: The decree went as described, from the beginning to the end, in close cooperation with governments, who were fully informed of all the steps taken. - From the beginning to the end, in close partnership with the government, who were fully informed of all the steps taken. - The political responsibility accordingly must also lie with those who received this exact information from the Bank County. What, then, is the highest political responsibility? In view of this, is there a minister of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u158	A respectable president. There's nothing to tell you that political responsibility always lies with the Minister in the end. We're in a hurry. What I was saying before and what I just said. A senator knows that the bank management refused to publish the list with the buyers. There was an independent review of the ministry that this was to be published. Of course, like a beard. A senator says. But there's nothing involved. You see, that's how, and unfortunately, we've seen it many times, that it hasn't necessarily had a transparency of various things. It was fulfilling what we set out to do, i.e. The transparency, because it should be the same as that of this Kingdom of perfect transparency. It doesn't in my opinion yet, and therefore, as I repeat here and say, I think it's important that we get and see these answers that we're waiting for so we can evaluate it. We just can't right now. I don't feel that we have anything in our hands to judge one or another or to make claims about one thing or another, but that we're going to get it from Bank County on how this whole thing works.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u159	A respectable president. There's one thing we can't do until we all get answers, but we can run the bank business and knock it off, even though we haven't got any answers. It's just something that's happening here. You see, it's that way. When they are considering responsibilities, they are a little selective. When it comes to Bank County's responsibility, it's so rich and so big that it doesn't have to be investigated, and it can be knocked off. But when it comes to the responsibility of a minister and other matters, we need to wait, of course, we need to examine, consider, initiate all the world's opinions before reviewing the General report, as it has been demanded. So I don't really think there's a stone on this one. And although the Bank Office refused to publish this list, there is no special political responsibility to have placed in the bank business of some bank secret system. It's only a matter of course, and we must agree on it. However, when I mention this with the political responsibility of the secretary of finance - when the Bank Office has informed the government at any point exactly what happened, and we are in the position of letting the Bankies go because it is political responsibility, is not the same about the minister of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u160	A respectable president. I'll just say again that when we have data in front of us where we can assess the circumstances, appreciate all of this, what happened--it is indeed, like the driving. According to one U.S. senator, the project is then informed at any given time. That must be the case in this report, which the Bank Management Board is giving us tomorrow, and then we can expect to develop some opinion of at least what it shows. Then, of course, we must also allow a government accountant, trusting the institutions we are here with and the SEC, to attend the factors in the area. And then and not until then, I'm going to at least... I'm here to make judgments as to whether a minister should resign or what. The suggestion that the Bank Management Board be laid down - I think there's a lot, at least I feel that way today, suggesting that this arrangement is not the way I would like to see it. I trust and believe that there are other members of the council that agree with me, and I have heard that in fact during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u161	A respectable president. Yes, there are many things to do in this discussion, and despite any of the times here at the council, there are many unsatisfactory people. This matter is so important and of the magnitude of the matter that it needs to be very detailed here at the council, in this democratic ideal field, but also to be given the opportunity to discuss it in the community and in the media that I find really best to say that ministers have not been enough to do it. I feel that the government has held back from going into the discussion, shielding itself behind Easter, answering the media late and bad, and when ministers arrive here in the council then they are, as we did earlier today, rather irritated and in a vast outback mode. Because of the important role of the council, I was also sorry to observe that the government announces a great change in course to the center of Easter when it was announced about the latest plans of the government, i.e. ... toputdownthe administration of the state's Bank, not even a formal decision, not even a formal formal formality, incompetentity, within the government, but simply made a statement and the opinion of three administrations of the administrations of the administrations. But at last now we have the opportunity to go over it. It's not about whether or not it's right to put down the bank business now. This reaction by the government is, in my opinion, after all this permafrost year in the community, nothing other than an experiment to whitewash, and the timing of it is, of course, that I believe the government is going to blame a little bit on this government agency to which the minister of finance is responsible, and he makes recommendations. He says he's in charge. It is an official agency and under the law of the State's Bankiscation to form that the director of the Agency complies with the law on the rights and duties of public employees. The answer cannot be more clear. It is, in my opinion, buttercup to park the Banks at this point down. This card does not answer the public's anger. The government is totally ignoring the criticism. She keeps talking the matter out of fear of her own responsibilities, for a good sign, as noted, was before Easter all right with the government's bank business. Well, it was pretty damn good then. So it is reasonable to ask: What happened to the Passover? What happened, what changed the government's assessment other than a huge amount of irritability and panik in the administration home? So the government wants to hand over both political and administrative responsibility to the bank administration, and it can't be done. The law says you can't do that. I would also like to state that there was a large political message in this declaration or an announcement at the middle of the Passover that reported that all plans for the sale of banks would be postponed, this largest case of Independence Party, and, in fact, the only thing he ever happened, end up with a huge deal, in the government contract. The Treaty contains some of the other cases from the left, green, or all of them, from the board of directors. This declaration to cut off the government's holdings of the financial system is also being replaced by the state's current tenant policy. Of course, it's a huge decision that's supposed to take place at a formal meeting of the government. Also, there is not some extra issue that's available in some of the weeks here at the council. This is also the thing that must go over and must be discussed. This, however, is a thing which the Government Accounting is having trouble crossing. Something like this can only be answered by a council member. What this tells me, however, is that the government does not seem to give up sales, trusts itself to sell more on the share of the government in the banking system, does not rely on it. It's a feeling of self-confidence in my opinion, as I have in mind. Written about, historical in part, that governments and financial ministers should not trust themselves. So I hear earlier today from the Minister that this is now to be continued. I hope it will continue, but there are certain things that need to be cleared up. They need to build trust in the community. We need the public on this trip, and it has been destroyed in a certain way. The above statement from the government also states: "When new legislation is established, a decision for the possible sale of the state of Iceland will not be completed until the next year, 2023. We know that it takes at least that time and then possible and possibly it can come for sale. It is quite remarkable that the Independence Party, once on the right, will screw up this matter with our people, our liberal right people, who believe it is important that the state is not fanciful about everything in banking. Correction has made it clear: We are behind government sales in Iceland Bank. We have. We support it in public interest, transparency, and a clear process in mind. We support the continuation of the state at the National Bank. We will. But the government and the Independence Party have messed up, and it hurts for us who want to see changes in this. We look at self - confidence in this government declaration. It is clear, most respected president, that this matter must be investigated on a subject. Every stone needs to be rolled over. It is so big and important that it is normal. However, the government does not seem to agree with these views, taking little or no consideration for other viewpoints, no matter how rational and justified criticism is. We at the government stand have been calling for a special research committee, but the government has, as we know, denied it and pointing to State Review and the SEC. All right. She wants to wait for the results of their research on the case. Yet, in spite of that, as has been pointed out before and before. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson said so correctly, can't wait to execute the bank business and try to throw her over the wagon. You can't wait for that. This pattern of behavior of the government in these last days and weeks is not greatly affected. The call for an investigation by a special committee has also come from the community, from the public, and from independent experts. We see very much opposition and dissatisfaction in the public, which calls for clear answers and increased transparency, which is understandable in the light of history. You cannot overlook or ignore this requirement, for such a study would be an important and precious factor in restoring the lost trust. And it wasn't necessarily very much for, unfortunately. I feel grateful that certain members of the board have come here today and sincerely tried to approach the matter. We see them taking the lead in such criticism. We're going to get confirmation of the ultimate. The minister of culture, travel, and business has produced this criticism, but if she has, it's fine. But what was the discussion? How did the government handle this? Something other than a snarl about the fact that there were no books. Since this comes from the leadership of the party, what discussion took place in the forwarding party? We hear you here. Senators Björk Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and other concerns, and I like it, I think it's healthy. People aren't supposed to be shy about it. We also see former members of the Independence Party, as Páll Magnússon highlights remarkable points. This is essential for healthy discussions and for further trust in the financial system and for which we need it. But the government doesn't have a sound picture, and it hasn't been that way since the beginning. Salan was said to succeed very well, just so brilliant, but now a sharp turn is taken from the previous position. Maybe it changed again last night in an explosion, and everything had turned out to be so great again. But it's clear that lack of policy is complete. The reaction is uncertain, and the message is unclear, characterized by some nervousness in the administration home, all to avoid responsibility, patches the wound, and to remove the attention from themselves and, of course, to hang the baker by putting down the Bank County. I'd really like to go over one thing, I'll definitely come up here again and I'll go over it, maybe people think it's a sideshow, but that's a giant thing in our mind at Reunion and it's a competition. It is under the law to deal with the government's ownership of the government's property or to consider competition when selling these things. But I've never heard the minister of finance or any other minister talk about competition. When it comes to financial markets, competition is the greatest enemy in the public. Iceland has the most expensive banking services in the world, and we don't even use this opportunity to talk about competition and take out the big picture when it comes to selling the shares of the state in a financial market. Yes, I can point to the crown, and it's no surprise that I'm pointing to the currency. But this is the big film, whether we discuss currency or any other factor necessary to prevent this market-publishing low-level subsidies, which leads to small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, the public, the families in Iceland, paying much higher financial costs than anyone else. It is also sobering to see that this opportunity is not used to promote it. Possession is important. But that alone is not in control. We need to build on certain rules how we further subject ourselves to competition, and that is especially so, when preparing a decision for this sale, how important it is that the impact of the sale on the competitive environment be evaluated and analysed. There's no discussion of competitive matters in the financial and economic contracts of sales. This is a huge comment on the government's attitude toward competition in Iceland in order to prepare a better position for the public, a better company, an improved quality of life for people. It is as if it is not in the head of the government that competition can be a foundation and force to increase the quality of life for the people of the country. This big opportunity with regard to the bank sale was not new, except that we should change currency. Naturally, there is concern about the rest. What's going to happen? I just want to touch it, but I see that time is running out. I find it amazing to see it, look up at these experienced people who are leading the government, these fine people who are leading the government and who have this wide range of experience, that they are not to stand here and take responsibility. Am I calling for a resignation? Not necessarily. I just want them to admit these mistakes made. No other question could be asked: Was the International Parliament being misled when the plans were introduced? Have you been misinformed before the Council? Where did all this change in the process? When did it change from having few but large investors who had the mind of it and the desire and ambition to be long - term investors in the banking system rather than just taking some lack and rotation to make millions and even tens of millions? The thought of this step was to get responsible members, professional investors, to invest in the banking system. No, that was not the case. Things changed in the process. That's what the government is responsible for. The minister of this legal class is responsible for this. He can't shoot from under investigation. Should he go over the whole list? It may well be. I'm more about the fact that he was supposed to ask questions in line with his administrative role, about whether there were any problems, whether there was incompetent potential. Are they being activated by government laws of incapacity? Why were these questions not presented? He's responsible. If he came here and accepted that responsibility, he would be the bigger man. This is a huge matter, a future matter for us to build up trust in the banking system. Not without reason. We have that lesson, and no matter how painful it may be, it is inevitable. [[The president calls.]] We have to learn from what happened in connection with the economic breakdown. And if we're not done yet, there's more to the country than I thought it would be. [[The president calls.]] We must build for trust, so we must initiate a research committee that rolls with all stones.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u162	A respectable president. There's been some discussions about form and tradition today, and certainly it's very important in the work of the council and the government to respect customs and traditions. But I wanted to mention at the beginning of my speech that a small magazine is in shape and today would have been the seat of a government senator. This has led to signed in the Senate symposium today, and I want to thank all involved. Stay calm during the robbery. Thus, in the morning of Wednesday, April 13, the poet Elísabet Kristín, the daughter of Jökulsdóttir, spoke. At the time, I felt that the situation in Iceland's Bank of Iceland would not be more slided in, and to me there has been few new developments since which give rise to the tone of those words of the poet. Our public property was offered for sale by some client's policy. Mainly, and of course, sales laws for the sale were to be applicable to the financial holdings of the state, as has often been done here today. It specifically includes emphasis on open sales processes, transparency, objective and practicality. It's been a lot today. In fact, if I recall correctly, it is not specifically stated that some who purchased letters in the bank have already sold and even sold very quickly and contained the goods in the bank. Not to expect this result in the process that was set in motion describes little knowledge of the stock market because it's just investments like other stocks, and there are those who are making a contribution to their increase of pounds. Records at retail halls are to pay for business. There were no warnings or demands to have these letters, so they should not have to be discussed. Last day, Páll Magnússon is doing well in an article on the points and lists a number of ways in which he can handle this light spin in order to achieve quite a success. The letters were bought in the gang over 117 if I was correct, and the following day they were in 127. There's a very good thing in your pocket. But in my opinion, and I'm so lucky, I'm not on a budget or a budget board, so I must speak that way now, it's no excuse for those responsible for this, pointing out that the rest of these members, or even the Ministers, have not taught any of their opposition in the past stages. In this case, the public is responsible for the treatment of the national, national, property, and property of the Iceland Bank, which is not expected to have been overlooked by anyone in this country. The president of the Bank Office said that banks and stock companies need to be trusted to handle stock tenders for the Icelandic state. That is what he said on April 14th. Yes, but the law says that when making a decision for the preparation and implementation of a holding part of the sale, this, etc. should be emphasised. and be careful that the conditions offered are reasonable and equal. Then, as the previous speaker did well, we should strive to promote an active and natural competition for financial markets. In Comb 4. The same law goes on to say that the U.S. Bank Office is responsible for these sales. It is clear that the responsibility for the construction of this project is the county of Banks. She's not going to town, not to Iceland's bank regulations, let alone the coffee machine. The same director said that the stock market of employees'advisory companies was a source of conflict and frustration. It was surprising to hear such a few days after this process was carried out, suggesting that the Bank Office might set standards in line with good management and business practices. It is clear that the late bat now has a view of the definition of professional investors. But was it not meant to be the role of the Bank Office to determine who these investors were and possibly set their own standards within the framework of the law to ensure other objectives in the process? Of course, if there is a break in the inside, it is particularly serious. One noteworthy explanation of how wonderful all of this has been is that there were no major barriers to sharing in the invitation. However, it has been confirmed that some were specifically contacted, and this is a big difference. Bank management is part of the administration chain. In fact, it is often complex, and this can take place in a designated language field that can take root in many policy documents. It is fundamental, however, that each link in the chain is strong and all representatives of it carry out their duties. But obviously there seems to be something that doesn't work out. But people are not only appalled at things that someone might call as willing as they are, at least not good enough. We've heard a lot of people talk about it here today that it hasn't all worked out the way it was founded. Then I went and checked the government's declaration from April 22, where it is spoken of as starting a trade process with an offerer in English called, by president's permission, ◯accelerated book blistering program. I've already sat on the members' side of the committee at one committee meeting, and I could, for example, do that. thought that members of the committees had Googled this concept and found that this term is primarily used as part - time expansion, where new funds are offered for a very short period of sale in the power of professional investors or what is called English, by permission of the President, to the European Commission of the Management Board. I think the senators had a pretty good faith in what was to be done. My conclusion, then, is that it could have misled the discussion at some point, possibly some of it. Senators. In any case, it might fall apart. But the purpose of this arrangement is to gain investors with a lot of knowledge about the stock market that can detect the value of stocks in a short period of time. A peak of 2,448 hours is the time it is intended for such a process, says Google. Therefore, it is also intended to share the market risk between buyers and sealers. In this case, however, the offer was rejected, which was higher than was sold. Thus, these cuttings worked because they offered more, in more things than were sold. The government's banking agency has now had more than three weeks to answer the council's questions about the sale, and it has been discussed many times here today that she wished to postpone it late last night. It's very strange, of course. What can it add in a 24 - hour period that she has had three weeks to answer? This is not acceptable for the council, nor is it acceptable for the general public, whose role the council plays. Is there something that you might be writing about later? All of this must be available in the descriptions of the sales process and how to deal with the council, as well as with those in charge of the Department of Economic Affairs and those in charge of the local government, as well as in reports of the sale. It may not be necessary to add much. In terms of open sales, it is stated in comments to the bill on the implementation of sales treatments in financial institutions that it is assumed that a possession share should be offered for sale in an open trade process. However, it is necessary to reason specifically if there is not enough to offer an item for sale in this way. It continues that such an arrangement may, in exceptional circumstances, be considered, e.g. to sell on the less part of the State or if any special circumstances require that this arrangement be carried out. I believe that these explanations must be read so that very rich demands are being made to be carried out in the arrangement set out here. I don't know how to argue that the process of sales was entirely in accordance with the law, but I'm not sure that the rest and these defects may have been in the process elsewhere than that of the Bank County. Then I also mean at the other end, from the stock markets and from the other side. The laws apply to the implementation of the sale, and it is specifically stated in the explanation that the government's banking agency will, on behalf of the secretary of finance, be responsible for all the sales process. In other words: Frustration will be carried out in sales of the State's property in one of the largest financial institutions in the country and expected one of the state's most valuable assets and will be responsible for the minister of finance and the Ministry's institutions. It is a joy to receive money from government funds in order to reduce the need for loans and interest payments, that is not it. However, anyone who talks about this in a measure of fairness must understand that criticism involves the possibility that there might have been more to this object. So I agree with Father Davíð Þór Jónsson, who said on Friday's Eastfield: "I don't think it's okay, and I don't think anyone thinks it's okay. That has been 83% of the nation's success, i.e. One survey said that 83% was unhappy with the invitation. This eviction of the government took up April 19th to offer up the county of Bank - there was no response from there. That didn't do one press release. It took two. But what I was interested in was that the Bank Office immediately declared that she would check her legal status before paying for any fees. There goes shit into the fan, said the tripper. Will those taking the assignment just swallow it up? The court system has now been sullied with less cause. This was a somewhat reckless statement in my opinion, or were there no laws broken? Is it only hope that ordinary people will experience themselves in some mud, as man said? Or why else would the Bank Office threaten not to pay the terms of the requisitions? I'm just asking that I don't know the answer, Mr. President. In all of this, it is clear that something has gone wrong, and it should be delighted that the executives agree that it did not all go the way it was supposed to, some of them at all. The people and the council deserve to get on this countertrace. The results of the collapse of the bank still remain open, as has been the case at the council today. I believe, therefore, that the General Committee to review this is the correct response to requests for clear answers to what happened in this process, and I encourage the case to be directed in such a direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u163	Mr. President. The article that I received in the media a few days ago had the subscription ◯Moldwood. I was referring to the fact that there was a lot of dust being picked up around this bank sale and its implementation, and I thought it would be a reason we tried to look through it dusting and to see what the major facts were and what we were really doing. Perhaps that is a reason, a respectable president, to return to 2012 to have a group in this history. We are performing this sale on the basis of a law approved in 2012, No. 155/2012, as the then government prepared and prepared. A senator, then secretary of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir, moved as a bill at the council. According to that legislation, we operate and create the framework for this work that we have now done, two phases in the sale of the government's holdings of Iceland banks. There is also reason to remember, more dignified president, that the state funds have now sold items at the bank for 108 billion dollars. It is an enormous amount of money, and it is very important to dispose of this money and use in need of work, to reduce the financial expenses, to reduce the future debt rate of the state's budget, to spend on the investment level, to continue the substantial increase in expenses that have been devoted to various financial groups, especially in the area of long-term well-being and education, and thus to get that kind of money to work. We can also recall a respectable president, already at the highest level. The current minister of finance sat down in the 2013 Ministry of finance in the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnla, had not been a strong focus on how to handle them, how to handle them, how to resolve the complications that had developed following the collapse, and how to find a letter on paper about it. The work that has been done since has been done for us because the property of the State in that bank has been sold. We can debate how much the State or the public suggested it, but the reality is simply this: This part of property has now made 300 billion dollars. and it's a lot less when we're running a government fund with the ones we're testifying about, in order to take over the economy and the community of the Covid pandemic. As more members of the council have entered today, I feel that there is reason to pause now and think back to the question. paritaprevir Last year's Eyjólfur's Ármannsson discussed the tremendous profits he made in banks. I always think it's very good that we're discussing it because the fact that we're talking about in the great rest of the bank business last year reflects, I think, mainly, of the best results of holding on to the economy at this time of Covid. The largest part of what the banks had to offer has been the result of going over their credit collections and drawing back where people had moved from their valuable loans. It is not that it was primarily the underlying good result of these banks, which created that profit. It can also be noted that in recent years, government funds have taken tens of billions of dollars for advantage from these banks, including the U.S. banks. the banks we speak about here, which were also monopolies at any given time and can't be described as having and running banks that are profitable. A respectable president. I think there's a reason to keep a few things in order to see through the mudwoods that have been helicopterd up around this sale. In the past summer, the value of a part of the government funds has increased considerably. Bank shareholders are now over 15,000, and the largest stockholders outside the state's budget are pension funds and other strong long - term investors. 14 of the largest shareholders own 77% of the bank. The five biggest shareholders are Iceland's State Fund, which still has 42%, a respectable president, the Penitentiary Fund for government employees, values, Capital Group and Business Pension Fund. Others have much less. These are the 14 largest shareholders that own 77% of the bank. The trade process is carried out in accordance with the laws on the sale of property assets in financial companies and to which the law stated, as I said before. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, then secretary of finance. The purpose of the sale was, in particular, that there was a length of arms between politicians and professional banking agencies for sales. That is what even the Bible says. in the report: By hiding a special government agency, the State's Bank Commission, the management of the holdings of financial funds, and the presentation of proposals for the sale of their property, the plan was to ensure objectiveness in the treatment of these matters. A respectable president. That's where the basics are. There lies under one of the main pillars in this process that we must not overlook: It is the job of the Bank Office to perform sales and the role of the Council of Banks to make a suggestion. She is the one who ensures that this is being done and is to be done on the basis of objective suggestions. Because of this arm length, it is not the role of Ministers and Ministers that details on individual offers, bills, prices, cuts on distribution, etc. These factors have the law of reassigned to the Bank Office. However, the banking board has published that subscriptions were received from 209 sources, and 207 received distribution. The bank agency also released a press release at the beginning of March 22, which was discussed in most media. Anyone who had a law on which professional investors were permitted to submit subscriptions, and no one could handle what we know best. This action must be kept in mind when discussing this matter because the first criticism of this sale was made in the very way that the buyers had been handled. When it got worse, it was basically a crime minister of finance to have not crossed the proposals and not to have handled the buyers. I understand that the SEC is now primarily in favor of sales advisers who worked with the Bank Office to implement the sales of the items that have been primarily referred to as the purchase of their own sales advisers at the auction. No material information is available on this observation, since it does not directly turn toward the council. I'm going to wait for her to come, a respectable president, and that's what I've previously said in a discussion about selling Iceland's bank in public, that what stabbed me and stabbed me was smaller buyers and their connection to sales counselors and even the sales advisors themselves. I'm not gonna pull a feather over that's where I'm critical. The government situation, and especially the associates of the local minister I mentioned earlier, who recommended these laws, argue that the procedure was self-controlled, a minister has shown neglect and more in that respect by not examining and accepting, not individual proposals, but by hiding it from the bank office. As I said before, it was first claimed that the buyers were handmade, but when it turned out wrong, it was replaced and said that he should have chosen the buyers. So in this process, there is a difference. Prominent to Article 4. The law states that a minister must check the proposal, which is completely false, as the senators know. A bill report says, with permission from the President: It is assumed that the Minister can assign the government's administration to the bank office to care for the final disposal for the sale of property items. There are a number of ways to consider selling property items in financial companies, e.g. general stock markets, registration of financial companies' letters to an orderly stock market or bidder. Sales part with an invitation or registration of messages at a stock exchange is a process that differs from the standard offerer. As an example, there is no assessment of extraordinary offers or sort of negotiations with individual buyers when it comes to the general invitation or registration of letters. A respectable president. I feel that it is important that we maintain these facts and try to look through the mud that has been stirred up throughout this discussion and around these bank sales. Once again, the dust was to be raised during the discussion, including the following: in the media, that those who had gained the benefit of buying had already sold themselves back and made a lot of money. Just like what? The senator mentioned earlier well described the nature of the stock market, so it is quite true that there was no time limit set on how long the buyers had to keep things, but according to a press release sent out by the Bank Office of Easter, a number of shareholders had increased by 125 from an tender date and a greater proportion of investors in the auction had kept or increased their share of possessions. Thirty - three investors had reduced their share of property, but about 60 did not appear on the shareholder list, and they could be a number of explanations, as further explained in an eyewitness press release. A respectable president. It's a few poems in our discussion today that we couldn't get the Bankisks to the Board of Staff this morning, as we had planned. I'm not going to continue to regret it, it doesn't mean anything, the day has passed, but we could certainly have had better and more informed discussions about such matters as how the bank account's leaving was and how the rules that she issued were prepared for it. How did the distribution and the cutting - off work take place? As news reports indicate, what offer was higher? We have no assurance in these matters. It's all part of the Kosmos somewhere. It's some sort of loose news. In the meantime, we do not have the answers that in a complete way, we can create a complete picture of what was going on there, and it is very bad that we are passing some important judgments from the General Assembly chair, at least at this moment. I just want to stress that we must never lose sight of our goal to get the government out of business in this country that it doesn't need. I think it's the core of what we should be discussing here, that we can prepare or prepare in a way that works in this stock market, that people see the benefits of investing in stocks to do business, and thus participate in employment. In the long run, we cannot expect the government to hold large business companies and importants, but we can trust people to own and run them. The core that we should be discussing is the role that the State will play in business in Iceland. There, sales of Iceland banks are an important factor in strengthening the stock market and establishing scattered holdings. For word's sake. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður of competitiveness is not so that the competitive show was never taken up. During these discussions, comments, or articles. The budget has, at least, broken down and sent away, is this scattered holding and not making the financial funds so necessarily that the main owners of the Bank of Iceland that we were trying to avoid by trying to distribute property in the way that has been successful. I think I'll have to wait until we get more involved in the process and see better when the dust begins to settle around, a respectable president. Of course, I am one of the members of the council who feels that the case was in place first of all in asking Government Accounting to review this process and second, to consider the SEC the procedures of sales counselors. Before we have it, I don't think we can say that using the General Commission of the Council of Research, it's just like that in the law on research committees and in the paper that followed the legislation at its time that they should only be used in exceptional situations and that it is not the first option to resort to it. I'm not saying that I'm going to put it down forever that there will be a committee of inquiry at some time that will review this process, but that we have to do things in the right order, we have to be able to talk about these matters as they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u164	Mr. President. Of course, I pause at this word that has been dropped here, a mudstorm, as well as the fact that we are not supposed to be making major decisions from the Council of II. I feel a little bit small, as if we're just not supposed to be asking any questions here in the General's symposium. The only big judgment that has failed in this case is the decision to condemn and abandon the bank administration because the hall was so screwed up. It's the big judgment that has fallen. Then there is this tremendous emphasis on history, that the State has obtained this property for nothing and has made of it something of enormous value. Of course, the public in this country paid an indirect amount of money for the bank crash, as we know well. So this history is no justification for mismanagement of the sale. It's the only real dirt storm that's being stirred up. And that's what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson explains which role the State should play against the businesses is not the most mourning part of this sale that the Independence Party has established it in the middle of the private development process that the government's half share has been established in Iceland banking at least this election period? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's Sigmmer for his answer. I have to say that I've been following this discussion and participating in it for the past few weeks, and I've felt that the red thread in the case of the U.S. authorities is trying to trap the secretary of finance on this matter. The government has taken a platform off a platform, a horn out of the corner, and taken from the air one and another as this discussion unfolds. But I'm going to say, for questions. A senator on property and on the basis of a position that has come up, that would be the most tragic result, of course. A senator, that he could not complete Iceland Bank sales during this ultimatum period. But it is true, and I believe that while we're getting past this discussion, we've put the trade process into a normal waiting position. We have to let the dust sit down, see what went wrong and try to appreciate it in some way. But I haven't made myself up to hope that we'll finish Iceland Bank sales in this ultimatum period. We certainly need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for the answer, and I agree that, of course, I hope that this property can continue to be sold to the public and investors who want to stand with the bank for a long time, even though it may be ill and ill. We must not forget that banking is essentially risky. Of course, while the banks have been making good progress lately, we may not be living up to the end of our lives, as we know well. Then I am referring not only to the collapse but also to the decades ahead, since the State often had to deposit money in the bank it had to do with its own custody. But what I wanted to say, because it's been said that the government's always trying to catch a financial minister - I'm going back to read what happened to the Bankiscation Agency after Easter: In close cooperation with governments, which were fully informed about all the steps they took. It is to say: The Secretary of finance and the government always knew exactly what we were doing at the Bank Office. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if the banking board has to be removed, it would require some sort of question about political responsibility. [[The president calls.]] Surely we can agree on that. [[The president calls.]] So asking questions about political responsibility must be justified and justified at the moment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u167	Mr. President. I think the discussion over the past few days, anyway, the one I've been participating in, and especially the way I walk. The chairman of the budget board and the entire committee in that regard has just shown that we want to ask questions. However, I was just addressing the feeling - I have not quite understood this discussion here today. I would have liked to take this discussion after receiving the Bank hasn't been offered to the bank business with their detailed answers to the questions raised by the legal committee. I think that would have greatly improved the discussion. Still, we just want to remind ourselves of it, because of it. A senator read here from the Bank Office's press release that the Bank Office itself now has a direct view of certain factors in the SEC. So it is not as if we are alone with various things in this process. But the big film is this: We've reached the goal of selling 108 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We still have a valuable share in the bank I hope for, and that's what we are. A senator agreed that we will finish sales during this terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u168	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He stressed that he was not making major judgments in advance, but in the 19th - April government declaration, it is clear that there was a critical element in preparing and implementing sales of the government's financial share in financial companies. I've been trying to figure out what the problems are exactly as the government would like to deny that they were there and have actually confirmed that they were in the process. They refer to the lack of information and the lack of transparency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's goal is that he believes that he was in the process and whether he feels that the Council has somehow been consulted about the necessary information and whether he is displeased with the presentations given to a financial committee and if not, where he considers the pot broken and the essentials for translucency and information.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm just at the same place I was in the discussion a few days ago or a few weeks ago. I feel that the Bank Board could have done better for information and better for a presentation. This is part of the problem I was describing as a mudstorm earlier, that it was not enough to be put on the lead. We all know this, and most of us may have experienced that when a news release comes out that a process has begun, it seems quite unexpected, but those on the other side were on their toes and observed, including. In business matters, it was not surprising in itself. The key element in this is that it was clear to everyone that when the campaign began and the tools available to them to make an offer, it was clear from the moment that they could make an offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u170	A respectable president. The problem with this procedure is that it is only too clear in the laws on the sales of the state's holdings of financial assets to involved the General of the process and the basic information that the General Assembly is to receive before the Minister decides to take the decision to sell it through the Ministry and the Ministry. Then there's that kind of intercom with the Bank County. It is a minister who should submit a very comprehensive report on the planned sale treatment - this is made clear in Article 2. Legal and financial and economic and commercial committees. It is a special responsibility that the minister has on his part what information should be presented in the report. These are all things that a minister has the highest responsibility, not the Bank Office. If there was some lack of information available to the council, I don't understand how a minister can take responsibility for it and place that responsibility on the bank office, as the prime minister has particularly done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25-68.u171	Mr. President. When I participated in preparing the reply of a greater proportion of the legal committee to the secretary of finance to the Commission on the proposed sale, I read of some of the problematic laws on the bank administration. My interpretation is that both the minister and the council have anything to do with the fact that this arm length policy is somehow bound to me by some means that I, as part of a major legal body, cannot suggest any other method or method other than the bank board. It was very much in the hands of Bank County. I feel that these 2012 legislation have created some kind of no-good country for the Bank Office to operate on, and it is especially for the reasons that I find normal that we look into the law on the Bank Office, its purpose, to ensure that this aspect of the sale of financial companies is further established. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I wanted to tell you about the Bank County Act that I think it's fine when it comes to selection of officials and such factors.
