ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u1	A respectable president. However, by the Parliamentary resolution of this decision, Allallis's permission is made to confirm the two contracts of Iceland, Norway and Denmark on behalf of the Faeroe Islands, on the other hand, the decomposition of the land base beyond 200 seas in the Sldarsug, which were signed in Stockholm 30 October 2019. The principles of the Treaty set the boundaries that indicate the boundaries of the three continents within the Suldarmist. The Treaty of Denmark on the grounds of the Faeroe Islands discusses rules that apply to the use of potential resources in the region, but the main principle is that countries should agree with the use of minerals that may be found. The Treaty with Norway does not contain any resource-efficiency directives. Instead, it refers to a contract between Iceland and Norway from November 3, 2008, on hydrocarbon laws that exceed limit limits. The agreements do not commit Iceland to any part share in the search or processing of oil and therefore have no effect on the government's policy on that subject. It is also important to note that because of the location of the seafloor in the region, it is unlikely to contain hydrocarbon laws or other mineral resources. It is also the right to establish that these treaties are merely about the division of land base, i.e. The bottom of the ocean, and do not go to any of the fishing grounds in the area. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u2	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50/1993, with subsequent changes (remuneration). The movers besides me are Ástadur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Sæland Gaand, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. - Uh-huh. - Instead of the word in English, U.S. G.A., paragraph 1. 1.mg. Section 15. The law comes: pay number. 2.g. The financial value of these laws is based on the pay number as it was on July 1, 1993 (131.3), and will take the same changes as stated in Article 15. Section 3. Section 3. This law already comes into effect.◯ The bill was submitted to the 151th legislature Council of the 95th, but it did not succeed and is now submitted unchanged. Its contents were also found in the bill submitted to the 150th legislature Council of 430, but not to be paid. One reference came about the bill at the 151th legislature Council, from the Allied Union of Iceland, which declared support for the bill and said that it contributes to the primary objective of damage repair laws to make damages the way they were affected. In terms of the change in GPA rates, but this index is not used to calculate prices. In view of the advances in prices, there will be an urgent need to change the damage laws so that their funds will change in proportion to changes in the measures generally used in terms of price assessment. There are two criteria to consider, the index of consumer prices and the pay number. The purpose of damages is to damage the damage to the same extent as if it had not been damaged and to aim the damages to the annual wage in this regard, dr. 1.mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. The law. When permanently evaluated, disability is largely seen to the effect that disability has on its ability to earn income. Therefore, there is reason to reference the pay number when the amount of money is permanently determined. It should be noted that in April 1995, a credit card number was no longer used to guarantee new financial commitments and instead was used by the index price for insurance. The credit card was 3,282 points at a level of damage repair, but it now stands at 9,987 points. As a result, economic damage laws have increased by 204%, and today the minimum annual rate for the age of 66 years and the younger 3,651,554 k is at the minimum. and 1,217.184 k. for 74 years and older, 3 mg 7. The law. - You go hiking on that number. That's an incredibly low number. This amount is considerably lower than the lowest salary in a general labour market. The remuneration rates were 131.3 points, but are now 793.9 points, which have increased by 505%, considerably more than the credit sheet number. As salary increases above prices, the protection of the damage laws has reduced the lives of people who are physically injured but who have not been fully employed in the past three years before an accident. These include: Young people who have not worked full - time, mostly at home, and older citizens. - And underneath there's a student, and they're also out of work. So these groups do not now enjoy the same protection, and the damage laws ensured them in validation. If the amount of the law is updated to match the pay number, the minimum limit of the 3mg is rising. 7. The song for the 66-year-olds and the under of 3,651,554 k. of 7,255,750. - It's almost doubled. Before 74 years of age and older, minimum targets would rise -- 1217.184k., we're talking about 100,000 k. at month 2,418,583 k, or twice less. However, it has come from 100,000 to nearly 200,000. These figures show that the minimum protection of the law has dropped substantially over the past few decades in terms of pay development and that laws do not fully improve the use of impaired damage to the economy when minimum standards do not reflect pay development in society. If the aim is to compensate for impaired ability to repair damage, the funds of the law must be linked to pay development. If this bill were approved, the laws of the damage laws would fall to provide those with a low income comparable to the protection they did at the law's taking. It's kind of weird that you're up here in a pit and you measure for one bill after another, where there's such incontrovertible discrimination, and where it's completely being tried to stop the worst, those who are children, older citizens, and those who are the worst in our society get what they're entitled to. We're talking about working at home, and it's usually women, older citizens, except and some individuals who don't make money that can live on them, let alone if you get hurt and have to look properly according to the damage laws. As I said earlier, it is pretty strange that it is now 3.6 million standards, but that would actually be 7.2 million, which is not overpowering in itself. It also shows the absurdity of the fact that the 74 - year - old have basically been handed over, that they should have only 100,000 dollars today. per month. Even if it goes to 200,000 bucks, it's not overcrowded. For some reason, it seems that the government by the government has decided not to allow these issues to go along with pay development but to let it late again. Then you ask: "For whom and why? Who's the one who's going to make money off it? I just have to say, just as it is, the government is doing business with insurance companies. There's no one else who'll make it. I bet the insurance companies are going to go uphill and say that if this is approved they're going to have to increase their insurance, which is, of course, a total mess. We already have one of the most expensive insurance companies, and we see it in the insurance market now that they have more good money. It heals on the toes and the finger. It is also not a very beneficial procedure when an individual is involved in an accident and is paid in a so - called thank - you fund, which is now not the case, but the insurance company has to lay down a certain amount because of damage to try to cover the cost of the damage. What's the most important thing about this is that when it comes to the loss, it never shows how much insurance company put aside and how much insurance company paid. We can put this in the context of a discussion earlier on the subject of parishion and more. If we take an individual who has a right to 100 million. K. We'll give him 30 million, and he may not get less than one third of it. But what will happen to those 70? If 100 million had been put in place. K. into this damage, what happens to the 70 million that differ? If it had now been discovered that the damage was 100 billion. K. and it should have been paid to say to itself that that that's where the missing person is 70 million. But the insurance company still holds those 70 million in its hands, and they may become another feather in their profits. Of course, we should make sure that if we are on the other hand making laws that the person is to be completely compensated for his expenses, we should make sure that the law is, but not making the law, so that they have more years to suffer the loss of the money and then do nothing about it when it is repeatedly pointed out the need to reevaluate it. During the last assembly, I discussed with the local minister of the Interior, who had these matters. There I was told that this work was being done in the Ministry and that it was being done to change this. Later, it came to the conclusion that these changes were on their way into the council. Then it became clear that this was over. Then you ask, "Why? " I think it's likely that there's some of the insurance market interest involved, that the insurance companies objected, and the Ministry decided not to put it to the test, it should not be followed by the law's law to repair damages, but to see to it that it remains the same. When this is done, the law is in itself being violated. It is breaking the rights the law has given to the individual. We also have reports that individuals may have received only about 10% of what they are to receive, 101.75% of the money they are to receive. It tells us that a person in such a situation will not have a good life ahead of him because the person may have lost his full health and the opportunity to work, become an invalid, have an economic situation, and on top is improving laws that will prevent the person from applying for a previous measure of protection. Second, when he receives the immunity and gives the case to the courts, he runs onto these laws, perhaps at the most, even though he is given a full victory, half of what he should receive if the law was right and would have been followed by pay development. If, as clearly indicated, we should apply this and aim to update these standards so that they reflect the law. If the country's minimum wage is 300,000 bucks. we don't put in someone who's supposed to get 100,000 bucks. It is ridiculous, in effect, that we have one of the laws of others that are merely wearing the worst. We must realize that those who are financially strong and who do not need to be willing to plead their case before the courts and receive their rights. Those are the worst in the world, low-employers, cripples, older citizens, ordinary home - workers who are living in palaces. They don't have the funds to go out and fight insurance companies. As a result, both of us need to make sure that they receive a full reward.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u3	A respectable president. Here's a bill for a change in support to purchase at the first apartment. It is thus suggested that the right to tax-free use of special savings to purchase the first apartment will not be limited to first purchases, but will also allow individuals who have not had an apartment run short of three years to take advantage of this option. At the same time, a so - called share loan is suggested to be available to those who have not had an apartment run out for the past three years instead of five years. This suggestion to make adjustments is an effort to meet all those who have been rented for years, perhaps because of temporary personal difficulties or because the economy took some sort of headstone, such as the ones we are now facing because of the consequences of a pandemic. This was one of the requirements for the 2019 labor contracts, but only partially achieved, in the law of sharing loans, that it also applies to those who did not have an apartment for five years. However, those who have lost their home, whether they have paid for or not, usually stand at zero, thus in a position similar to that of those buying their first home. Hence, the same resources should be available for people who have lost their home and for those who are buying their first apartment, and even more are likely to be more likely to have people who once owned and lost money, usually for a larger family than those who are buying an apartment for the first time. But for whatever reason people are stuck in a rented market, they must have a chance to survive. There are also examples to guard against them, and we must learn from the 2008 collapse of the bank. The bill is most important because of the many individuals and families who lost their homes in the years following a collapse. Although it may be exceptional, it included individuals and families who were not responsible for the circumstances in which they lived but were victims of circumstances where they did not have information other than those published by the public. They could not provide for the economic, financial events then occurring. Although some have been better able to get their boat back on track, a large group has never been able to get their years from time to time and are stuck in a rented market, still paying for the consequences of a crash, which some would like to discuss as a historical event that has long passed so far that it cannot be discussed. It's not. 2008 is still a haven of banks, and many are experiencing its consequences every day. Of those who lost their homes in the years following a collapse, many have found it difficult to get back into the real estate. These same individuals have not previously been able to use the legal resources, since they were first introduced in 2016 and did not go into effect until July 1, 2017, and reached, earlier, only to the first buyers. We must see to it that the consequences of the economy are certain to be taken at certain intervals, such as. For example, the pandemic situation is not as long - term as the result of the 2008 collapse of the bank. It is well known how difficult it can be for tenants to put aside money for down payment in an apartment. Most people have enough money to pay off their own homes, and at a rented market, people who generally do not have much to pay and therefore cannot afford. Added to this are the huge increases in rents that have already taken place and are also predictable in the months to come. This makes it clear that rent - rent markets are becoming more and more difficult to save. What, though, if some of them were to cover a hundred thousand dollars? in a month, which is unlikely to be any of them, and would be truly successful. 100,000 bucks. every month there would be 1.2 million per year. 1.2 million aren't even in the nose of cats in a house market today, and for a deposit to be returned something would have to go from 8 to 10 years to a real value today, and during those years, housing prices would probably increase even further. In short, these people are in a hopeless position. Something else that would have to be done, which this bill doesn't cover, but I think it's a reason to mention here, because it's a big deal for a large group in a tenet, that they'll relax their own budgets for that group because it's totally ridiculous that people who have been paying expensive rent for years don't run credits to cover the payments that are even tens of thousands less than the rent they've had to pay. However, there is another issue that has not been dealt with in this case, and it may end up at the level of financial institutions rather than of the Lawgiver, for current legislation does not support it. Nevertheless, I feel that there is reason to mention this here in the High Generals chair, for this has been one of the main obstacles facing renters when they have tried to reduce their expenses and thus improve their own interests and their families. With this change, we plan to meet individuals who have not been able to cope with new options and who have not lived in an apartment for three years despite not having their first purchase. These include many individuals, as previously said, who have lost their home after the collapse of the bank. The bill's report states: By bill this, it suggests that the right to the tax-free use of property savings to buy at the first apartment will not be limited to first purchases, but will also allow individuals who have not had an apartment to be allowed to take advantage of this option. Evidently, in the years following a collapse, a large number of people lost their own home and found it difficult to get back into the real estate market. These same individuals have not previously been able to use the legal resources, which were first introduced in 2016 and not valid until July 1, 2017. It is well known how difficult it can be for tenants to save money for an apartment payment. As a result of this change, the plan is to meet individuals who have not had new resources and who did not have an apartment for three years, despite their first purchases. This bill has several aspects of the matter; that people who have been on a lease for three years or longer have the same rights as those who are buying their first apartment, that people who have been on rent for three years or longer get tax-free money money to buy an apartment, and is also suggested to have a rent period before they gain the right to share loans from five years to three years. That's not really a suggestion. The problems of the tenants are sufficient and, in fact, so great that this will not even benefit everyone there, but many will. Of course, those who have the potential for a better life are to help and support, since it is a common advantage for us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u4	A respectable president. We in the people's Team support our mind on this bill and we're all here behind it. This is a very important bill because we know how large a group of people suffered from the collapse of the bank at the time. If we think back, we must realize that there is something really crazy and something stupid and something really wrong with it if you can say to people, "You can pay rent, $200,000.250,000. per month. And a family may pay for three, four, five, six years, and realize that she can buy an apartment and can take a loan for it and have to pay a hundred thousand dollars. A payment from the loan, and then all doors are closed. There is so much common sense in going this way that there must be something wrong with the system that doesn't say, "Yes, do this. " You have already proved that you can be in a rented market and prove that you can pay this particular rent, an enormous amount of rent that may be up to 40, 50, or 60% of provisions, and now, which is wise, you can go down to 20◯30% of the provisions. That's exactly what the government has always said, that it should be headed for it. How, though, does she plan to do so? With these share loans? The shares have been completely lost because there are no apartments. We're talking about an apartment today with more than a million square feet. It's crazy. There is a battle for every apartment, and thanks to a person's reaching the apartment before it reaches 10 million over the price set up. All of this is the responsibility of the government and of the government and of the country society today. It's a long time to deal with these issues. One step in it and a big step like that. to accept this bill. It is also contrary to this system that only those who are buying their first apartment can use their special savings. It's always been the best investment that people can get into investing in an apartment in Iceland. It's supposed to be the right of everyone, but today, unfortunately, it's just the right of those who are wealthy and who really have the ability to do it. It also depends on the individuals or children of people who landed, for example. in the collapse, or those without parents, who can help them buy an apartment. It's a hopeless example. You do not say to youths today: Now, just make a living and save some money to buy an apartment. I heard from one who said the other day that if he was going to try this, it was just a completely hopeless example. What the person could save in one year for an apartment he had an eye - she had increased three times. He never saw that he could do this in the near future unless he received outside help, share loans would tire every time, or he could approach his parents, and they would tire each time. But not all of these have opportunities, so we have to deal with this. It's very natural and perfectly correct, as shown in the bill, that if you've been in a rented market and have shown that you can handle a high rent, even enormously high rent, for three years, you should probably be able to enter it. If you can't do this by the banks, you're supposed to be able to walk into the official system and get help to follow the sense of leaving $200,000. 250,000. payback to $100,000. ... payback. It's so common sense that it's unlikely that we'll have to stand here at the Generals and try to get things like this. This shows that governments over the past few years, and the current government is completely incapable of handling these matters. Then you ask yourself, " Who is this government for? ' She's at least not for the majority of people, not for ordinary people. It seems to be for companies, banks and financial institutions only. This needs to be changed. I really hope that if this government doesn't change it, then the public will see to it that the government will be deposed and those who really want to change this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u5	A respectable president. The housing system as it is today is pretty broken. It's a crime for those who're buying for the first time. There is a violation for those who are trying to return to their own home after losing housing. Of course, changes need to be made as suggested in this bill, that especially those who lose housing have the opportunity to get back into the system. But like a dog. A senator pointed to the right time earlier that the share loans are not working, one of the things to be meant for those who had trouble buying homes and buying their first purchase. At least they don't work in the capital area. There is simply a lack of solutions for people who want to get off the rent. We must be able to find ways that work. Share loans have been tried, they don't work. There's been some tests, it doesn't work. Surely we can find other ways to change something that may work. If it is willing, governments can find a way, but to do so, they need to wake up and listen to people who are suffering in the rented market. I hope that as many people in a rented market who are trying to buy their first home, there are, for example, To try to move out from behind my parents, let the government hear. I'm not necessarily sure that using special property is a pretty good solution because we can't forget what special savings is. It is designed to help us make use of it when we grow older and pursue the pay of old age. That's how he's thinking, in addition to the pension we get. It is now that if you take out a million when you are 22 years old, 23 years old, you lose tens of millions of dollars in interest, interest rates, and inflation, and anything that grows in special savings until you are 67 years old. In a sense, we will be biting off our feet in order to buy accommodations. Yes, we need to hope that the building we live in will increase, but we still need a home when we are old. There is one solution to use the special property, and while we have no others, we should have it. But we should be ready to think of ways that will not bite our feet while we are in old age but that will allow us to live in our own house. There we need to think about other models. Is a farm model working or some other social model? We just need to have an open mind and be ready to do this. If the government doesn't exist, we'll just have to look to the banks and our partners and find ways. We live at a certain level of competition on this land. We only have three banks. They can control it as they want. It is now easier to open up more banks, much easier to make more banks today. Maybe we just have to do what my grandfather promised when the oil prices went out of control, founded an oil company, and moved one load to Iceland, and the rest of the oil companies dropped the oil prices. Sometimes you just have to think outside the box. I have full faith that if people speak up and tell the government that it is not acceptable to stay in the rented market today, the government must listen. They must listen because they always think about the next election. If those at the rented market and those who want to move out from between Mom and Dad, those who want to get into their own apartment, get no solutions from the government, then she won't be back. That's all they're listening to. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u6	A respectable president. I agree with everything that's been presented here to help those who have lost their home to get back into the real estate. It's a good bill, it's mild, it's fair, it's clear. In fact, it may be surprising that the government has not come up with comparable resources and even something even better, simply to let it become reality that those who have lost their home at some point, I don't now talk about after the collapse, I can get back into the real estate market by some means. There are many ways to go. Here are some, but more is involved, since this is not an easy matter. And it's like it's passed by a dog. paritaprevir Not even the Ásthildur Elia Þórsdóttir before then, it is certain that these teams mentioned in the bill will cause large groups to return to their real estate markets. But if we look at the last few years and the collapse and the years after the collapse, and afterwards this group has just forgotten. I met many in my line of work as a psychologist and talked to many children, each parent had lost his home, and it is more tragic than it is possible to express in words what really happened at this time, the consequences of a collapse, of having a home, of having a roof over his head. It would be so natural that the government of this country would take care of this group and take special care of it, which includes many who are low - paying people. And why? Because they insist on paying large amounts of their wages for rent. Now there are just so many people that they may get 500,000 bucks, maybe even less, a month's wages, but maybe $250,000. ... rent. How is it possible to set aside some crowns in this situation when food and clothing and everything needed to survive the month? That's impossible. Not to mention the group that receives less than 440,000, or 400,000. During a month's provision, they pay almost half of it in rent, if not more, and cannot help because they would otherwise be people on the street. That's the situation for so many people. I had it calculated not long ago when I suggested in the mayor that children of the least - time parents get free school meals. We're talking about high school in 8,000 children only in Reykjavík, who have parents who have less than 440,000 bucks. every month. That's the way it is now. This is no joke, and this, of course, takes advantage of someone who owns and rents it, they know they'll always be able to get tenants. There's nothing more complicated than that if you don't pay these rent, you can just go somewhere else because there's a series of people who want to rent and have to rent because they have to have somewhere to stay at home. This is really very sad, I think, because we live in this blessed country, we are a small nation, and we don't need the money. This is the question of what to do with them and how they are given the assignment and priorities. We know how this government is, which has been in power for a long time, unfortunately, she does not put this group first, quite frankly. It's something else that matters to this government. This is merely to say that people can live a decent life and have a safe home in which they know that they can be in because of their own record, that they are not able and merciful to pay high rents, and even in unstable housing. It is natural that renting is never guaranteed, being in a home for which your name is recorded. I don't know if you can be optimistic about a bill like this getting some listening from this government. After all, it is in smaller parts. There are now only a large number of people around here watching unless they're doing it elsewhere. But one would think that the government would want everyone in this country to have a safe haven and to go to sleep with the assurance that the next day, they would get up carefree, at least for these basic needs of food, clothing, and shelter. I thank you for this bill that is presented here, I think it is mild, fair, and of course it should be unrecognizable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-42.u7	A respectable president. I want to thank them. Councilmen who have come here to support this bill; Gísli Ólafsson, Baldursdóttir, and Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson. I'd also like to touch some of their items. You're right. paritaprevir The Gísli Rafn Ólafsson pointed out, the special theft is in the early stages of life. I have often protested that this is the government's solution, that it uses the special savings to do this. I'm actually against it because it's supposed to be older, and we have in this society, like other Western societies, that we can both contribute to the years of life and make housing. The point is, though, that we are only in a very distorted housing market, and somehow it needs to be plastered. We can't operate on him, especially when we're in a position of government, and we'll do what might have to be done. But this is a solution that was available for people to buy their first apartment, and this is all we have, which we could possibly try to do for those trapped in a rented market to make it easier for them to get in. This is what we're trying to do. Besides, we've got to put in some bills that have at least one thing to do. Perhaps there is some hope of being accepted because of being, such as, why? paritaprevir Kolbrún Baldursdóttir put it, mild and fair. That's why we're making this effort. It is also true that the share loans have not worked at all because there are simply no apartments. And then, naturally, we find out what a crazy real estate market is today. So, as the situation is now, although this bill was agreed to, it would probably not do much for these people. I'm talking a little bit about the collapse, and there are a lot of people who seem to think it's a long time ago. I'd like to say in terms of the fact that it wasn't until 2019 that was just over two years ago that I was able to negotiate with the bank in my home. It just worked out because I refused to move out when a contract ran out, and then they started talking to me. Thus were the required actions. I have sometimes put it this way: These aren't normal people. People move out when a lease expires. We refused to do so, and the bank began talking to us. If we hadn't refused to move out, I wouldn't have anything today. I would have walked out of it, totally. This means exactly that the collapse is not a distant past for those who crashed into bank hackers. It's just a reality, and a lot of people in society live with the consequences every day of it. So this needs to go, like what you've got. paritaprevir Her daughter Kolbrún Baldursdóttir quoted that in a survey she had conducted at Reykjavíkurburg, it was found that 8,000 children in Reykjavík lived with incomes less than 440,000 p.m., i.e. that in the homes of 8,000 children in Reykjavík, income at home would be less than 440,000. It would be nice to hear what a financial minister with all his fine averages would say to this number. I'm also going to point to another: Children are not financial, so children in themselves can't be poor. They can live in poverty, but they live in poverty because their parents are poor. Their parents are trapped in a rented market. And what is this large group of parents? Some of these children are sure to have single parents, but these are 10,000, even up to 16,000 parents. It's just the fact today. And what we've been asking about the people is that no one has less than 350,000. tax and inadequacy, which has long since gone too low, yet we can't make it through or have not done so far. So, yes, it's kind of hopeless for people to set aside today. I can also say that I've been keeping a little eye on people right now who've been trying to find an apartment in a real estate market, to buy a real estate there, and it's been happening right now, they've invited to five apartments, that someone's walked in, what I'm supposed to say, with a bag of money and paid on the table. This is reality today. How are people to compete with them? So I sincerely hope that this mild and reasonable bill, so I'll witness at the moment. paritaprevir Kolbrún Baldursdóttir, make progress. Still, there will never be more than a plaster on the position as it is.
