ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u1	In this part of financial discussion, the president wants to state that there were four ministers yesterday and today it is assumed that there will be five ministers to answer but the chief. We have a minister of wood here as standard minister of culture and commerce, and the minister of education and child care. There is now a seminary of the minister of culture and commerce and the minister's standards, the Supreme Minister. Minister of Wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, will proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u2	A respectable president. As a substitute, I intend to review key topics and say that in the new Ministry of Culture, Business, and Travel, there are unique opportunities. Nearly 30,000 people are employed in culture, creative articles, and tourism, language classes that provide a high value of export for the nation. During the next few years, there will be an emphasis on increasing the value of these groups. The Government Treaty and the current financial program provide good assurance that the construction of these organizations will be further supported. Regarding the subject range of 18, culture, continued to be the foundation of Icelandic culture and art life, a new opportunity created for Icelandic artists and creative articles sustained by industry. In recent years, cultural contributions have increased considerably, and this is an investment. The main emphasis on cultural issues: The production of films and TV programs will be strengthened, reimbursed to contribute to the development of more major projects in Iceland, with great interest in it. The music setting will be greatly improved by a new music center, which will begin next year's work. Then there will also be the wealth of music that supports, and so will it be. The musicians for the market application abroad. Art policy will be implemented in the terms of the season. It is time for art to have increased force on the part of other arts. The same applies to the design policy that will be presented and carried out during the season. At that time, the site of research will be set up, which will promote the creation of creative material to the future by quantifiable analyses and economics. The wealth and preservation of cultural resources and the artist's job will continue to be improved. The total budget of the 2022 budget was 18 billion and 995 million, but will be less than 18 billion for 2027, which is mostly explained by the breakdown of temporary donations for various projects, such as by contributions to projects related to nature and the grammar of the project. However, its continuation is on the table, but its final cost assessment is to be conducted and published in the next financial programme. Regarding the 14 transport services, tourism is a major part of Icelandic employment and economy and it is important that it be given the opportunity to build up after the pandemic crash. It will be emphasized that tourism in Iceland is a competitive industry in terms of nature, Icelandic culture, and language. We want Iceland to lead in sustainable development and innovation in tourism. As a result, construction of infrastructure into the beat of tourism and the future vision of international tourism to 2030 will continue to be done. It is hoped that travel services will be straightened out after the difficulties that have been there, largely caused by the crown virus. There is a good chance that travel services will achieve much of their strengths. A discussion with stakeholders in travel services has been conducted by the Ministry, and the government is evenly informed by memos about their prospects. There is strong evidence that currency can grow in future losses. The budget of the year 2022 included a budget of 2.2 billion but falls to 1,969 million for the year 2027. This decrease of 310 million is also explained by the decline of temporary donations over the period as well as the annual pernullation requirement for the Member States. In the 19 media media, the main objective of the government in the media is to promote democracies and democracies by promoting the communication pool and increasing the diversity of the media as well as to create a work environment that contributes to the more efficient media communication in public use by active participation in different and diverse media, the media as well as the State's TV. The main focus for the period 20231⁄22027 is for the media in the public service. The current budget contains 5.5 billion, which up to 6.8 billion in 2027 or an increase of 1,200 billion. K. The increase is mainly explained by changes in the schedule for income of radio charges. Other changes in the topic field are in the annual state maintenance requirement. For market and consumers, active competition, financial markets, and targeted consumer protection are important in supporting economic development and economic interest. A key element is an improvement in competitiveness. The aim is to achieve improved competitiveness with increased transparency and efficiency through effective competition and healthy business practices, also to increase confidence by providing good information. [[The president calls.]] The financial contributions there are somewhat similar, an increase of almost 600 million during this period, which, in fact, goes on to be devoted to financial management, which is behind this financial sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u3	A respectable president. We'll discuss something called culture and business, and it's a big, wide look until the next five years. I'd like to, sir, a respectable president, to be allowed only to abuse my situation and to mention the position of shops we approved at the end of February 24th, to help companies prepare the summer, and to make up for the loss of income that had taken since December. Of course, because the programs were ready, it was easy to pay, and it was possible to include only those who had the right to apply. However, the situation is that it is not yet possible to apply. There are a lot of companies waiting for the support they've been asking for, but it just doesn't. There are all kinds of answers. The IRS says one more thing, the Economic and Business Committee says. It's spoken out and south. I mentioned it to the highest. The minister of culture and trade at a meeting with a financial committee the other day, and she pretended she was completely off the mountains, that it had not started. I wanted to mention this because here is the highest. Minister of the wood to answer. It is important to all of us that our companies are being supported so that they can attack the tourism they are going to do this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for putting this on the table. I'll admit, to the position of the travel minister and minister of culture, that I come a little from mountains, that it's such a situation. We have had very good experience in the way this has been accomplished, and the tax has done so. I know that sometimes when we've had such complaints, it's because there's no evidence and something's kind of gay. But I'll just take this indication why. Senator, get her on the way to the Ministry, and we'll also have a look at this in the government. I agree with the senator that it was, in fact, the purpose of these protesters to help the executives get through these difficult things, praise their support in other words, just to enable them to cope with the growth of tourists, which we already see has become and expect much of in the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u5	A respectable president. Then I'm going to give you a point on the financial agenda and I'm under the category of tourism. It discusses much of the challenges faced by tourism in those days, speaks of a decrease in the number of tourists and of predictions about the number of tourists. What I miss in these numbers is what's left in the box and what tourists we're getting into the country. Since the beginning of the tourist tide, we have been preoccupied with the majority of people who come here rather than with what the tourists are doing. On page 18. 292 of our dominians reported last year, 686,000 people arrived here as tourists, who are still an increase of 45% between the years, from 2020. It also speaks of the 2 million who came here in 2019 and speaks of 2024 as being the same number of tourists. One objective is found on page 8. 294 is an increase in the value of money that is referred to as putting more emphasis on profit than on the number of people. The aim of each tourist's expenses is to increase by 13,000 dollars. on the head which could actually be a reduction in the absolute value of inflation. What does that mean? Does this mean that there's more money in the box or travel service is better fired? I'm afraid that at the time that we've suffered during the Covid period, we haven't been rethinking our tourism so that our buildings and government funds and tourism will have the most enjoyment. Are we working this way, so we're getting the right tourists back to the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u6	A respectable president. That's a good question. A senator puts on the subject, and perhaps there is no simple answer. Yet, we are in the official policy, and have had it so for some time, not necessarily seeking the mass of tourists, but just as much as we pay or leave more behind, or whatever we should explain. Nevertheless, it has been said that it may be the airlines themselves who control the quality of the company and the prices and thus in some way who come. However, we have seen in this epidemic, and from these analyses conducted by the Ministry and Tourism Office and such people, that the situation, despite all of it, is remarkable. The biggest debt may be at the largest hotel chain, where the mass is, but many of these smaller and medium-sized companies, which I think we have many of these in here worrying about, are doing pretty well. I have some information from the Ministry that their books are quite good, and especially by the United States that well means they're the tourists who give the most, are longer, are wealthy, and may be the tourists we're after. So I think we're on a pretty good way. We have these official policies, as I said before. But perhaps there are only a number of other things in our environment gradually becoming the result, in part of the policy development, perhaps also due to the consequences of the epidemic, that the trend is in the right direction, and to obtain the proportion of more income. There are, of course, expectations that the population will be quite large this year. It's just that it has to be said right now. It'll be nice to see if it's going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u7	A respectable president. In my opinion, culture and business are just fine together in the same department. During our president's reign, Vigdís, Finnbogadóttir, at times spoke of the ideal first web surface to meet potential customers around the world. Well, the business is what enables us, if they flourish and succeed, to run here a social society that is full of sombers. We in the Gang of the People have the priority that there's enough here for everyone, that there's no poverty here, that we shall not suffer any poverty here in our rich society. We want to increase the support of jobs and the commercial and commercial markets and opportunities, and we need to make room here at the council. We need time to set fine paths. That's when I say standby at the top. The minister of culture that we, who are new at the council, are probably the ones who preceded us, must experience some form of amazement and frustration over the dissension of this council and the Senate. It has to be settled so that we can escape the apparent difficulties that the Senate has been having for decades, some kind of terror balance between smaller parts and more parts. I'd like to give more of the part that runs the government at any given time to do good things instead of standing here in the lesser part and the greater part. Let us address this matter, and let us discuss it fully and resolve to get out of this wicked hatch before and before the end of this election period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u8	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a good word for Jakob Magnússon. Perhaps a little about this vision of the future that we should have, both on individual matters and also on our own and on the work that we do, is in our future view that all the people of the country should be able to improve their quality of life by sharing in powerful and varied activities within the arts, cultures, sports, and youth. At the same time, this field of topics is somewhat consistent with the government's prosperous goal. I'm going to tell them we're doing what we're doing. Over the years, a senator has often talked about the importance of his initiative, that the culture and trade, and now the tourism are meeting in one department, and we have a chance to raise our culture, do what is here being stressed by the music policy and the music center, the research site of creative articles, and the focus of the Ministry, and now at this rate, that this seminar group will also become a profession of income. But of course, there is room for artisticism, and it often goes very well together, and when it works out, I think it works really well. I agree with what. A senator says that there's a lot of good things going on here. I think all of us in this room can agree to encourage it, and in this financial program there is support for many of the things mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for my reply here. On the contrary, I'm going to state that I don't make any comments at all in the order of the procedures here that have been developed for the better in these subjects he mentions. I've had a lot of discussions with him and other ministers, and I don't have much to complain about. That may make me a bit of an unorthodox government official. I think we should face the fact that here at the council is some kind of culture or civilization that we need to deal with. We are known as a culture, and we should be examples to other institutions of culture, morals, and practices. As the government's situation tells me that it has experienced, both in recent terms and in modern times, the issues of minorities are taken into some sort of hostage of the greater part, and the only weapon against it is some form of speech, which, of course, is unworthily worthy or for pleasure or gain. Let us get out of this and resolve to set new standards of culture and activities here at the council that is before everyone. We are in the face of an international nation, and it is not certain that the people of the world will be aware of this. I may be partly explaining to those who are looking at home at the slow walk in the work and how people may be taking a blow to the side of details rather than the main points. The key point is that 63 well - mannered and in many respects educated and experienced members of Congress sit together and have not yet reached the rhythm they should have learned long ago. So I appeal to the chairman of one of the three board of directors to ask him to participate. We may need some kind of goal coach to help us find this rhythm after decades of lack of rhythm and culture in our work. [[The president calls.]] I'm serious about this. I ask that a request and a request be taken seriously from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u10	A respectable president. I feel like a speech. A senator's affairs and necessary, and he can promise. That's what I'm supporting. I agree with many of the factors. A senator mentions. When I'm here talking about how we're going to promote civilization in the community, maybe we should look inside, and I'm at least ready to do that. In fact, in spite of all of this, there is a great deal of work being done here in the Committees, which enters an amazingly high proportion of matters in which we agree and do not have much disagreements because we have reached a conclusion in that work. On the other hand, there may be other matters that we may not handle well enough and that we may go on a large scale, and there will no doubt have been ongoing tasks for a very long time to find some way, to form an array of people around the council. I think I'm one of its supporters. I've tried to be both sides of the board and to use the pros and cons of this system or system damage and I'm just going to say here that it won't stand on me if we can find a better way. Of course, it is somehow based on the willingness and authority of the smaller section, whether it is done in the same way as in Denmark, which we now take from ourselves or not. In contrast, we have a better view of how we are going to resolve matters. And then I'm going to end up saying that we may be doing a lot of work over too many cases and discussing too many cases each assembly, and that's why we sometimes make mistakes, and then we need to reevaluate them next year, and as a result, we'll always get bigger and bigger and much more. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it would be better if we had fewer issues and had time to be more careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u11	A respectable president. I can't wait to get to the top. The minister of the wood is about to come up here and tell us senators to look inside and agree with some comment about the ill-management here at the council. There's no civilisation at the council. Now we have this financial program in front of us, and I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding the subject of the parish Party in this government. Last night, it was reviewed how to get to the highest level. Within a few weeks ago, the secretary of wood declared that contributions would be made largely to social housing. A projection plan to reduce stock supply and to reduce housing support is also provided. Of course, the transport process will then be very aggressive in this program. But now we're discussing the cultural and commercial issues, and it's a little hard to throw into the trend that's being called because the media spreads into a number of deposit teams. We'll see, for example. that the State's contributions to culture, art, sports, and youth are expected to be considerably drawn in the coming years, which will be expected to include. due to the permanence requirement required. A budget bill of 2022 was conducted on all the arts funds. I'd love to hear it from the highest. Minister to see if such activities are expected to continue for the next few years, on the funds that have no business beyond the assigned task. Then maybe I'd like to hear from him what he's picturing about the artist's salary. In the past ten years, their power has fallen back from general pay development, and you ask yourself: " Will the headmasters of the Programme respond to this, and if so, at the expense of what projects will it be within the topic field? Because it's like the highest. Of course, a minister realizes that presenting an enormous budget is being made available in this program. This is the main thing I would like to hear from him in the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u12	A respectable president. The last time I knew, that talk chair was freedom of speech and of the highest degree. A minister could say well with a bang. Or they may say that they were wrong depending on his opinion. I'm going to keep going, despite that. A senator has other opinions on this matter. I'm sorry if the senator didn't find out yesterday, but he can tell me what to do. A senator on the budget of the past five years, 2018,2022, went about 228 billion on transport. The financial program for the next five years has 222 billion, which is, in effect, a decrease of 3%. That is a challenge. Last night, I did well in my comments on the house - to - house matters, especially at the right time. Þórunn It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir that's an intercomer now. A senator and I became aware that we could at least share our views, even though we did not necessarily agree on the results. But I can go over it again if you don't. A senator wishes to. With regard to the issues under consideration, it is true that all things are maintained except health, justice, and education, and that we have had in the long run. In this regard, it is appropriate that we no longer have the need to stimulate our spending by means of means of pumping out money, but it is now a crisis that we are in today's fund of borrowing. If we were to go further, I know why. A senator's opinion is unfounded, we would promote the spell. [[The president calls.]] We would encourage interest to rise. We'd promote higher inflation. [[The president calls.]] So we're working on money policy, not on highly conservative budgets. You see, we are growing out of this global crisis in a very reasonable way with remarkable results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u13	A respectable president. V.E.G. Of course, a minister has full freedom of speech at the General Assembly, but I say again that I refuse to listen to him to have speeches over a United States Reich, where he is accepting some scandalous talk of a civility at the council. No one here in the council hall has made racist comments in the past few days or in the past few weeks. There's a whole other place where the culture lies. When I asked about art and culture, I found no answer. We're talking about it here. In terms of transportation, this is so that the Conspiracy does not want to go to the expanding budget right now. They're supposed to be in charge, and it's important to play with money policy, but there are various ways to do so. It's, for example. earnable. There are other priorities. It is not a natural law to draw very carefully from the investment of investments. When I'm at the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs says that this is not an extremely conservative financial program published here, so it's just shown on page 12. 36 in the plan that the actual growth of co-medication should increase by 1% over the years. In the historical context and in this century, the actual growth of the combined intake has been an average of 2% per year. I don't think there's been so much spending since I was born. That's the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u14	A respectable president. Last pass on the dog. A senator is wrong, as is true of many other things he brought here from a pita, but I'm not going to go after him. There are others who judge it, but he and I do. The maintenance policy of this government is not cruel. We're growing out of the crisis. We're supporting the UN Bank financial policy, and hopefully the workforce team will be with us on that bus in the fall so that we can maintain a low interest level. The fact is that, despite all kinds of statements from others, inflation, the uniform measure of consumption is 4.4% in Iceland while it is 6.2% in Europe. In other words, it's lower here with the crown. So we, uh... Senator, here is working on improving Icelandic society. This morning, right now. A senator woke up, and he had more money for every penny, and all the Icelanders, than yesterday, and never had more. In 2013, about 12% felt that they were having a very hard time making ends meet. Today it's 4%. Hv. A senator may come up here and continue to paint and paint a black picture here of Icelandic society and the development and policy of the last government and the financial program and policy of the present government as well. But there must be figures to support itself in that relationship, as I am doing here, hopefully in a perfunctory way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u15	This is an organized discussion in which a certain rosary is expected, and it would be unprecedented, I suppose, if we had a discussion about the President's meeting board in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u16	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u17	The president didn't know what to do. A senator would be accused of anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u18	He said I was wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u19	That's -- President asks why. Senators and Ministers to adhere to the rosary. [[Invrh....a different opinion.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u20	A respectable president. The establishment of a new Ministry of Education and Children, which combines issues for the overall interest of children and young people, involves rich opportunities for improvement by coordinated measures. The Ministry is aimed at promoting the development of educational, child - care and rights and on the basis of the Ministry of Education, the affairs of young people, sports and youth. I'm here to explain the main focus of budgetary development to the 203/2027 and to the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs. Under the Ministry, 20 topic areas and part of the subject areas are 18, 22 and 29, with a total financial clearance estimated in 2023 to over 50 billion. In a government contract, there is much emphasis on the resources and services for children and children's families and this emphasis falls well within the aims of the legislation on the integration of the services of successful children, which went into effect on the 1st January and the financial program is defined as an induction period. The aims of the legislation include the ensuring of effective and early measures to meet the needs of children and their families by means of cross-cutting cooperation of the institutions responsible for the children's affairs. The influence of integrating integrated paediatric services in accord with integrated paediatric services, focusing on preventive measures and early support increases the chances for the success of children and the prosperity of families and community benefits to the future. The General agreed in March 2021 to 2030, with a broad consultation with stakeholders. The policy places high emphasis on being guided by the interests of students and people of all nations, and the educational system can cope with changes with flexibility and diversity in the way they operate. Education policy is expected to be introduced in step by the first programme of action. Our main goal in high school is to offer study to meet the needs of our community and the coordinated service for vulnerable groups. It is then emphasized that the number of students who complete high school exams at the specified time will increase the proportion of students who complete the field and technical education. It is important that students access quality education and adequate supportive services to be provided regardless of their habitat and that studies are organized in a way that meets the requirements of the next school. The main objective of the government in the field of sports and youth is to improve the quality and support of professional management. It will be emphasized to balance the potential of children to engage in organized sports and youth activities regardless of the economy, circumstances, and habitats and will be considered to participate in children of foreign origin, which is in accordance with the Mosaic Law covenant. There's been a big debate about national arenas. Critically, financial programs are not visible funding in the stadiums, despite the importance of a government contract. It has been reported that there is work on the case and that funding is clarified when the cost of construction is more advanced. A respectable president. Forethought is the coordination of 2030 focus and education policy, the aims of new legislation on integrating services for successful children, the objective of child-friendly Iceland, as well as other policies and plans for the education and well - being of children and young people. In order to do so, there will be also. starting up an education and well - being interest stakeholders for children and young people who have the responsibility of supporting the progressive induction of emphasis and action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u21	A respectable president. Before I have my case, I'm going to pray to the highest degree. Minister of listening carefully to what I'm saying. We must insist that people are not confused and mixed up in this discussion. I was earlier, for example. talking about the growth of the combination. Then it's the highest. A minister has a long talk about raising money and tells me that I am wrong. Let us try to stick to our material needs. Let's just talk about children's issues. Last December, 738 children waited for analysis at the Development and Behavioral Station. In December, 326 children had a waiting list, children with very serious developmental disorders. Today workers are fleeing the Agency because of mold problems. There, very young children are being received for intervention and training. Some of them have sensitive lungs. This isn't possible, and I hope to the highest. The secretary of the wood can confirm this to us now only after they have found a new facility for the operation immediately. In recent years, the Children's Protection Agency has progressively reduced treatment homes without any alternative options being replaced. Children who are ill are referred to the local community without financial support and I wonder if Iceland is not the only state in the North countries where long-term treatment homes are not being run for children with severe mental and developmental disorders. There could be countless examples here, but the big picture is this: The survival of children has increased, and waiting period has increased because funds, facilities, and manners have not developed in agreement with the real need for service, and that is a political decision. This is the development that will be on the top of the watch. Minister and chairman of the forward party. I want the head of the advance party and the highest. Minister in real life just keep it this way? That must be, in view of this financial program we are discussing today, with the expected total spending of the next few years. It's the highest. Ministers are pleased with this document and this fiscal conference, which is presented here to the Supreme Court's lawsuits. Minister of child care?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I can answer some of these questions, but I need to get room or better information from the Ministry as a surrogate to answer something else. We do not agree on whether this is a highly conservative course or not, and we can have a different view of it. In my opinion it's not, and that's what we're developing in this financial program. That is why in schools there is a basis for creating lower resources than the general or 0.5%, because we are talking about these matters right now. But I'm going to agree with what. A senator that there is not an acceptable waiting list, and that's why we put it in the lead of the last election, and I think many categories, emphasis on that matter, and as we emphasized it in the Treaty. Part of the debate we were doing on the board was to be able to handle these matters better, to form by uniting the educational language, i.e. Pediatrics and elementary school, in order to intervene, apply it to us, help us with many of the things that need to be developed by a successful bill about children, right at play and basic schools if we're going to interrupt early, and that's why I know that they're looking for a better way. But I'm going to agree with the senator that we could be in a better place and be in a better place, and I'm convinced that we're starting our journey with the work assigned here, and I just went over on my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u23	A respectable president. We've heard this kind of talk in the past that needs to be increased between institutions and integrated and united and overall reviews, etc. and you're doing good and important things, but you need to do better. At the same time, however, we simply observe in real time how, for example, we do so. Like the people we're talking about here, workers are running mold houses, like I went over and they didn't get any answers to, how waitings are getting longer, and how budgets to important classes like those we're talking about here, e.g. in paediatric diagnosis, even decrease from year to year. It's as if the Ministers of the Future Party are in something completely different from the rest of us, where somehow it can be told forever through things. This does not help the children in their list of waitings. It doesn't help the nurses who have to run faster and faster. It doesn't help the people on the floor. I studied earlier, how to receive sick children at mold shelters, how to estimate the cost to my rural society, and how treatment homes are laid down without replacing them. Is this really the policy of the advance party and what the forward squad meant in their XB campaign for children, etc.? It's the highest. Minister and leader of the Party proud of this trend, longer and longer waiting lists and longer waiting periods that have occurred during his Ministerial period or the Ministry period. Minister of child care? What's the plan? And he's talking out there. [[The president calls.]] Why not show some respect for the Senate as well?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u24	A respectable president. Congress or perhaps more of those who look at information, we often have assistants, government experts, here in the side room, and since I am a substitute in this case, I have a specialist in this field of the Ministry, which I consult from time to time in the side room. I hope so. A senator has an understanding of that action. That is not disrespectful to the council. I'm trying to inform the council as best we can and answer any questions. Senator. [[Up front.]] If I heard correctly, there was a why. A senator talking about the counseling and diagnostic station earlier and the mold that's been set up there. I don't know why. A senator is saying that it is part of some strategy. It is in another government agency to try to work it out, change housing, and improve the situation. Of course, it can't be stated here from a talk chair without providing details that in recent years all the waiting lists have been the longest when I am told that they are not. But the main thing is this, huh? Senator: This is a start to take on a large amount of work during the last term, interpolitical, both within and outside, to intervene earlier in the subjects of the child's time, called early intervention, integration for the benefit of children, where the child's heart is in the ministry. Here we are taking a big step toward implementing laws that ended at the council. I have no doubt that when these things start to work, we will begin to see much better service to our children, a decrease in waiting list, and the goal is, of course, to destroy them in the case of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u25	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the issues of children. We know that the role of advisers and diagnostic centres is to ensure that children with severe developmental impairment resulting in later life disability receive diagnosis and counselling and other measures that improve their quality of life. This important institution is not a demand institution, and has not been in it for many years. The minister of education and child care took care of her matters during the last term, and after the minister's office, he continues to handle her issues even though he is now a member of another Ministry. Despite the high importance of the child - care minister, there is a waiting for services at the Advisor and Analysis Centre far beyond what can be considered normal. Well, it doesn't look like the highest. During the past four years, a minister has managed to improve the situation. As noted earlier, this was not expected to be much delay, but the common waiting for the diagnosis in 2017 was 10◯17 months. Today, it is a common delay of 11◯22 months. Here's an advance, with kids in first place, that's been controlling all over the last four years, and it's still the longest. What's going on with the advance? The very secretary of this seminar class has said that it takes three to five years to enter, that something is beginning to work in this system. All I have to believe is that it takes five to ten years because it was built on quicksand, not rock. The problems of the waiting list system were not started. There were no problems with design in the system, and funding the system is not under way. We know, and it's the fact that a dollar put in the case of children who need an diagnosis of ADHD and to prevent them from becoming micro-terrestrial in the future is back ten times. So I ask, "Why don't we just roll up our sleeves and deal with this now? " Let us not allow that to happen for the next three to five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u26	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that it is impossible for us to wait five or ten years. I believe that when the Minister says that the induction takes a few years, that it gets the full function, that's simply, we should say a real estimate of how things happen in this sector. There are 1.8 billion who are entering these issues because of the success laws on integration of child service. A total of 1.1 billion into an equation fund to all rural society, and the Ministry of 700 billion has been playing. Thus, the change is truly a treasure - filled one. Of course, she will immediately have some effect on the situation that exists today. I hope the meaning is that as soon as you can step in, the waiting list begins to decrease, and you can start working on it the other way. Of course, it is a very bad situation if, at one end, there is a slow decline. It'll prolong your waiting list. I believe in this project, and my faith is based on the fact that a very large group of people, experts in the whole country, came together to create this system. The minister who has put his life and soul into this, and great passion also has the opportunity, as it were. A senator pointed out, to introduce the matter, and hence may follow through. I just believe that we will succeed, but I agree with the senator that restrictions must not be delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yes, hope and faith. I hope it works, but I'm sorry, but I'm afraid it's scared. Iceland has repeated reports of high levels of neighboring countries in the PFIA polls. A third of young boys can't read for their benefit after high school. All emphasis seems to be placed on reading speed, but at the same time, children's sense of reading diminishes. Many have noted that instead of simply teaching them to read quickly, they need to change their emphasis on reading. A very interesting project started in the Western Islands last fall. The project's called Turn on the spark. This introduces a new approach to reading, and it is now followed by a approach to the first grade in the Western University. Emphasis is placed on simplifying the reading model, so it is essential that reading is based on writing and speaking, not on speed. The goal of the project is that 80 to 90% of children are fully closed by grade 2. First figures indicate good results. According to them, 93.6% of children in the first grade had broken the reading code as early as January, and 78% were able to read sentences using large letters. Does a minister agree that instead of merely measuring how fast children can read, we need to develop children's reading skills and focus more on reading skills and breaking the reading code? In this case, we are especially referring to boys' problems. Don't you agree with me that it's a long time to deal with this problem and set things right? As the system is today, it doesn't seem to work. It seems there's a chance to make something work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u28	A respectable president. Yes, I agree. Senator. There are clearly a lot of things over the years - although people have been presenting all kinds of new ideas and plans, and then I'm looking far back on the lock - ups and all kinds of things, I'm afraid we've seen the evolution of these comparative tests, PISA and others, who haven't supported us on the right path. And in spite of the fact that we may be putting more money on top of the elementary school than are many of our comparator countries. Therefore, during the last term, I believe that the then minister of education worked a tremendously good job with the educational policy, which was worked a little like the child's, many came to and was clear to the council that was approved here at the council. In this financial program, we are starting some 900 million in the process of implementing that policy, including some 900 million. to add the lock. Hv. A senator here spoke of a very good and exciting assignment in the Western Islands. I have also seen that the field of education in Réjanestown has developed its education policy to 2030 on the basis of the general civil education. I think we're here with a device that we can watch will help us to go the right way, while we were already talking about how to handle the children who need additional help through integration of services to children. So I am convinced that this financial program encourages us to be on the right track and that we will see measurable results in obvious things, such as reading and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u29	A respectable president. Before I get to the point, I want to, since it was rejected by the highest. President to allow a discussion on the President's conference board, to promote that I don't think it's the right decision for a president. There's got to be a way of going to the President's conference board if the senators want to go between ministers. V.E.G. Industrial minister has spoken here on behalf of the minister of culture and trade, and between that, there should have been room for the President's conference, if I had been found, or before. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson to be accused. There's a measure of resources used by members of the Parliament hall, and I think it would be to have burned a little bed when it's assessed. I just wanted to put this into practice because there was no license. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson is going to a conference board, as I think he should have had. But to the point. There's been a lot of talk about children's waiting lists here, and I'm going to keep on doing it and thank you very much. Minister for coming here and participating in the discussion. Some he has answered quite well and less, as it goes. Of course, that's just food for all of us. Maybe I'd like to go on the big picture of this. When we're talking about a waiting list of children, there's a category of tops. A minister speaks extensively about the interests of children and speaks highly of himself as a member of children and of the child's affairs at the time of his reign. Yet, many of the court lists, as has been repeated with the Children's Commissioner, have been increasing. The move team has been in almost uninterrupted since 2013 and in the same way as the highest. A minister was thanking himself and thanking his own people for the economic success of Iceland, he must have to recognize his responsibility in the long period of child waiting, and are extending at the same time as the highest class. Ministers and individual ministers and members of the party speak extensively of a clean - up category that has done much of that number. The numbers on the waiting lists show us something else. I would please pray to the highest. Minister to review this photo.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u30	Madam President. Yes, I have called it, I don't have enough knowledge of it myself, to see the development of a waiting list in recent years. I was going to agree with that. A senator that in times of waiting, no matter what they may be, it is our job to try to overcome them. When we have an early thought of intervening, there are courting oppositions to it, i.e. when people are waiting for an interview, an analysis, and a treatment for events. I just have to admit that I don't have that number on a rhythm, so I can't say that it's a natural development. A senator claims to be in all respects right or wrong. But according to the information I get here from a side room, I can hear that it's not that all requisitions have grown at this time. I don't think there is any paper, however, to look at the advance group and the highest. The minister of Ásmundur Daðason Davidson has worked hard to emphasize children and debates, and the fact of how these were handled during the last term proves my case. There were very large meetings with all who wanted to participate, and there were waiting lists at 500 meetings in Hörpa, while Covid prevented all from attending. A very large group, professional and political, came to these contracts and I think we're on the right track for that. It is true that the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Children's Affairs has been in the hands of us candidates since 2013, except for an already eight months. Secretary of the category, sir. That was the case with a senator. I guess it's the same for his time, that he's worked hard to shorten a waiting list of children. Sadly, we have not gone beyond our experience and need to do better. I think we're on the right track, both with the budget and the laws we've agreed to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I want to make it clear here that I don't doubt one minute that we're all willing. I don't doubt it for a minute at the highest. Children's Minister and Chairman of the Future Party and the Supreme Court. A minister of wood has his heart in the right place when it comes to the affairs of children. Of course, all of us want that group to have it well, and we do not have to stay on lists for long. But I may have been just trying to think about it, just because the company has been in a position for so long to correct this, whether he doesn't want to know his responsibility in that even though he has his heart in place, full of good plans and wills, which I don't withdraw and accept entirely, the actions may not have completely worked out the results that have been discussed. Or maybe I would like to stay in a similar area, since there are times when you are talking about bridgeing gaps between maternity school and prenatal school. True, the length of birth was extended by three months, and it helps, but the need for investment is great in the development of infrastructure, and we are talking not only about preschool but also in other areas that I know to the highest degree. Minister knows well. The prime minister recently said that there should be a qualified prenup and that it is the idea that has come into the king's house. Of course, that idea is not just from there, there have been others calling for it. But it costs money, and there's nothing to figure out how to get the best of ideas. Prime Ministers are to be financed, or where the broader line is located by the government itself. I was going to ask the highest. A minister would have a clue as to how this would be done because the rural communities have been calling for more funding, and they certainly need it if that assignment is to become reality. That may be my question to the highest. Minister this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u32	A respectable president. At least two things took me along after the second talk. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. One is whether we are familiar with our responsibility for litigation, and I do not compromise. I'm convinced that part of the work is the highest. The minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason got started in his last term because we've been with this seminary for a while to cover it. It is true that he emphasized the prolongation of the birthworm as part of the improvement of children's circumstances, especially the perhaps most insecure group, i.e. Nine months to 12, 13 months of age. I think that we've had this group in some way in our lives for a long time, making it possible for humans to set off in larger solutions, larger minds - not for about four years but perhaps for decades, as this successful bill of children shows. Of course, it is good for the jury that it is the same person who burns for this matter that has the opportunity to introduce the law adopted during the last assembly. For my nursery fee, I'm too old, at least I don't have it in my head how much high school space costs in crowns. But today, parents pay about 10% of the cost. Some 1,935 percent of this cost was collected by rural society. So today, each 10% of the population is on 5 billion, and today the rural population is receiving about 5 to 6 billion in total stocks of high school fees. If they still had 30◯ 35% of them, they would have $125,18 billion income, which would be a better place each year for their rural communities. [[The president calls.]] But they made that decision and, as it were, will have the smallest decision, which will be the last 10%. But I agree with what. Senator, it's going to be very hard for the locals to do it without seeing overall how we're going to serve our youngest children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u33	This meeting will now be interrupted and a meeting will be postponed to 16,20 for the meeting of the council classes. At the end of the break, it will be the highest. Secretary of the university, industrial and innovation to respond. A meeting is postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u34	A respectable president. The Government Treaty stresses economic and social progress, environmental protection, equality and social balance. For ambitious goals to be achieved, there is a need to ensure that there is a powerful source of wealth in the whole country. A strong step toward that is in the budget of the government now discussed, with the emphasis of the Treaty on innovation and technological changes being clearly developed and followed. During the season of the plan, the annual investment in innovation is increasing by 9.2 billion. In this way, there is a further basis for ingenuity as the foundation of the Icelandic economy that supports us in the face of future challenges and further biography. This increase is accompanied by the focus and response of the government to the pandemic Covid-19 which showed the importance of growing numbers of resources that are neither limited nor largely dependent on external situations and fluctuations. It is important to activate the scientific and innovations induced by the government in response to the pandemic. Then there is a permanent increase in the Research Fund of 1.1 billion annually in order to further support scientific research as well as the amount of annual increase in technology and thus further expands research and development efforts aimed at innovation in the economy. This is what the government wants. • promoting scientific activity on a global scale, developing intelligence into the nation's largest export in its time, and increasing the number of jobs in land - wide fields of knowledge. As we strengthen innovation, we want to make sure that we do things as well as possible. Therefore, a review of official support laws in scientific research has been decided to guide simplify the work and clear responsibility. It is also planned to look for cooperation with OECD on the assessment of the implementation and effect of tax subsidies to companies. A respectable president. Contestable research and university are the basis for the valuable creations we are pursuing. It is vital, therefore, that all of this be well supported by a powerful university and the quality of scientific work, and that there are highly educated individuals in Icelandic society who can create interesting opportunities based on knowledge, intelligence, and innovation. Increase in college budget increases by 5 billion from the last financial programme. The priorities of the university budget are, in the beginning, reevaluating the university planning and rules and improving the quality of college and ensuring that they will be better equipped to perform the vital role they have in the time of technological change. The government wants to pursue a strong research environment and maintain a strong link between university and society and employment. By doing so, we will reach out to the emphasis expressed in the Enlightenment Treaty, the Enlightenment of Enlightenment, and the digital revolution. This will highlight the wide range of study opportunities for telecommunication and distribution. Communication and digital solutions are the basis for any progress in modern society. Confidence, reliable and security of technical infrastructure, as well as digital solutions and modern regulations, are essential for the full use of the capacity for intelligent production here on the land and for increasing the diversity of industry in the whole country. The government's special emphasis on Internet security, and in this context, nearly 150 million are expected. K. permanent increase. Equality is and continues to be the priority of the government. There is an opportunity to increase equality in all the fields under my department. The share of women in the funding of science and innovation, whether considered to be of the highest magnitude or reimbursement of research and development, is too small compared to men. Women are less defined as pioneers and have the opportunity to enhance their variety in the sector and in the needs of the environment. It is also necessary to consider the different positions of the sexes within the college community, which include women in much of the study, i.e. 65% versus 35% of men. Fortunately, while women have become increasingly involved in science and technology, men have been less involved in learning things about women's traditional careers. There is a need to reduce these gender differences, as it is important that future employment sites reflect the makeup and diversity of society. Finally, strong and secure communication services can contribute to increased diversity in jobs regardless of location and increase the possibility of flexibility to work. [[The president calls.]] In this context, improved internets can be identified as increasing the denomination of women in excess of men in rural areas. It is a pleasure to introduce to you the topic fields and lawsuits under my department in this financial program. [[The president calls.]] It is a huge offense, and I will constantly look for ways to do things better, use the opportunities, activate them, and clear the path of innovation and industry in most areas of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u35	Madam President. The chapter on the university college level in the financial program contains many fine words, very many beautiful words about important projects and the highest. A minister spoke a great deal about the university, which is also the foundation of the innovation that she stressed so much. It is, in fact, there. spoke of the fact that universities and research institutions play a key role in achieving government emphasis in a current government contract, not only in education and science, but also in dealing with social challenges faced by Iceland's improved information sharing, in digital revolution, in increased sustainableity and long - term economic growth based on ingenuity. All right, great plans, as also said: High schools and research institutions play a key role in achieving government emphasis. And how do governments go about achieving these priorities? Of course, there are no increases in college donations, despite this key role. Key changes in the framework of the topic areas are published by up-to-date programmes of the Scholars' Education Fund, including due to child extensions, 3% increase in students, and to ensure the maintenance of progress in terms of the development of prices. Madam President. The financial strategy on each occasion actually shows that the government's policy and the financial resources it provides show us what it truly means to say. So I ask, "Do you think he's the best?" Ministers that it is likely that the universities that are based will achieve the goals referred to in a financial program without raising donations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is a very important discussion. Yes, I have a lot of faith that the university can use it more fully by reviewing the rules of financing to them, that we can achieve the clear goals we put ourselves in this powerful financial program. It's not just about the budget, it's about how it's used, what we have in the system, how we divide money to the university to achieve the results we're going to achieve. We have a really good college and a powerful research job, and it's a powerful founder in Icelandic society. But we need motivation to make this better connected, to increase the supply of societal valuable courses, e.g. in engineering and technical education and science, that the university is equipped to prepare enough people to work in so - called important articles where people are needed. There is a need for well - educated people, and there are tremendous opportunities. Now the motivation for college funding has been simply wrong, more about the number than any other. We're trying to compare ourselves with other countries. We're going to reach a goal in college funding, but then we also need to watch how we use it, the tens of billions of people in the university system, and whether we can better plan it, create good incentives to achieve success, whether it is about education in social articles, to promote increased telecommunication, increased cooperation with university, less development, and I could continue to count for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u37	Madam President. I think there's definitely a way to set things up everywhere. But I'm not as optimistic as the highest. In view of the requirements for a university in recent years, a minister would be able to do so without adding new funds. I remind you that the government has disappeared from its purpose in the last government to reach an average of the northern nations. This financial program, when it comes to college, reminds me a little of the old adventure about the nail soup, but when the visitor arrived, the soup came out of nothing. But there is something else I would like to consider. It is also referred to as strengthening and strengthening the European countries into a more sustainable nation, which includes food plants, fish farms, fishing, environmental protection, talking of building up relationships with employment, promoting careers, and training and the global work of a university. However, it is far less important to promote an art program that must play a key role in the creative forces to be built on the coming and in the branches in which we are directly involved, and recent reports show it, as in health care and training procedures. There's hardly anything about it. So I simply ask the highest. Minister: Don't these too need to be stressed? I repeat the question: With all due respect for the management that can always take place and must take place, whether in the home or in the business world, the highest will believe. Minister, is it really possible that without any new funding, the insanely large parish described in the financial program can be attacked?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u38	A respectable president. The nail soup can be delicious. But it's not just a strategy that the United States may not know how well but, rather, to increase efficiency, to make better use of the money. It's not just a matter of setting things up or stopping doing things. It's about setting priorities and doing things better. We haven't fallen away from the goal of getting the money from the northern countries, what they're going through, but we can't compare apples and oranges. Now it's time to compare the education systems with the scientific and technical instruments of the country, how we can compare them. It is simple to argue that we can only reduce the number of students by a certain proportion, and then, suddenly, we have a tremendous sum of money for each student, if this is just a raise for each student. We then need to change the funding model so that we support each student much more fully and that we place the motivation and quality of study into it and the graduation result, and that we are going to achieve the same results as the countries around us for less deportation, in maintaining the quality of study between the first year and the last year, to extract students from the branches as we do. A senator mentions. There's talk of art and health issues in the budget. They are especially referred to as socially important courses of study. I'm sorry I missed it. Senator. But on page 18. The total number of students in these important articles is estimated to be 346.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u39	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. High school, industrial and innovation ministers for the presentation earlier. When I considered financial programs, I began to wonder about the relationships that arise between settlements and universities. There are many opportunities to support a university career outside the capital area. There are many ways in which you can do this. The financial program says, with the permission of a president: In all parts of the country, the production of civilization and innovation will be high below the head. by means of the supporting network and thereby by the activities of knowledge beyond the country. Safe communication plays a key role in this process. I'd like to commend the highest. Minister for this. There are many ways to strengthen the function of the university and increase in expertise in all parts of the country. It also speaks of the support of telecommunications and education in the financial program. I'd like to hear more about what the Minister's vision is about working on the campus, and how you can work more with it, because you and I have so good college institutions out in the country, all over the country, so there are plenty of opportunities to cooperate. That is what I would like to hear more about, saying how you can strengthen the cooperation between schools. The financial programme also shows that funding should be assured in support of the article making Iceland a sustainable nation. It includes articles such as technicalities, food production, and sustainability, so I would also like to hear what the minister's vision of it is. Is it going to increase the cooperation between professional and university life?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to agree that there are such tremendous opportunities to cooperate with the colleges, to offer a greater degree of learning, to support the settlements of the country, to link the university with knowledge site in innovation, Fab Lab Lab Factories, and down to basic schools in communities. That's what we're trying to do with a new Ministry. The community network of public universities is also extremely important, and there are many opportunities. What may not have been accomplished and needs to be workable is the aims of a common application hypothesis, that it will be better determined to integrate support services and more to save money and spend it on something else, but, of course, to increase cooperation. We see that the cooperation of the schools is going well, such as in the north, where the University of Reykjavík is a team for computer studies at the University of Akureyri and is an example of how well the work of college can be done in order to meet the needs of society for education. And we also need to see, and hopefully we'll see soon in the East and in other places where we can offer a more wide range of studies in the country with support from other schools, whether there are universities in the capital area or elsewhere in the country. You see, it has great opportunities. Regarding the relationship with the job life and other things, it has to do with this, too. There's the financing model that the Minister has, and it's the most about in the financial program, the tool that you can have to encourage in the model to increase in areas where society's needs are. So I think that makes me feel positive to our university system permanently because we know exactly where to call after a technical education, we know where to call for a nursing education, etc. There we can develop a positive impulse for the university, which I'm sure they're ready to receive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer and agree with the above statements, i.e. that we know where we need expertise. I'd like to mention one thing in the law of students' education. There is a potential for specialisation to areas requiring expert expertise. It's in 28. by the law of students' Education Fund. If there is no expertise in certain areas, communities or communities may ask for that expertise, and reimbursement on student loans is delayed in a special way. This may be a huge opportunity for rural society to make use of this, less community law that needs expert knowledge, needs doctors, needs psychologists, speech pathologists, needs something in industry or other. This is a huge opportunity. On the other hand, this does not seem to be quite new. I know the highest. Minister, how's this new? And if this is not a good new one, is it scheduled to advertise further and, therefore, give smaller rural areas the opportunity to gain further expertise?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u42	A respectable president. This law is now 2020, and it is a special appeal to produce an advertisement that needs to meet certain requirements. This has not been new so far, it is considered to be a fairly sensitive matter for Ministers to support how you choose these subjects, which subject should be preferred above others. The requirement is that a construction agency may need to include this. working a report in agreement with the European Union on the importance of dealing with specific situations in a particular community. This report has not been prepared, but based on that report, logical support could be considered. This is something that might also be examined in a new financing model. Many people are sorry about the university financing model. That may not sound like an exciting subject, but it is the real tool where you can create the right motivation, for example. Communityly important articles, study articles, motivation for the skills of the labour market, the needs of society. This discussion is not merely a talk about college being available for employment. They're for society and communities around the country. How important it is that we thus offer study and encourage people to study where future jobs will be made, where opportunities and resources will also be extended! There is an exciting task that has not been completed, which has been drawn for far too long, i.e. reviewing the old financial model where the main motivation is for a number of students, but not otherwise. That's one of six priorities I've set for myself to complete in the new ministry. It is of utmost importance that we use the power to educate people for the communities that call for a particular education and need it vitally.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u43	A respectable president. Communications are below the top. Secretary of the university, industrial and innovation. Communication has been very much discussed over the past few weeks at the General Assembly, including in connection with a bill at the highest level. Minister, a code. It is positive that it is among the government's objectives, as specified in a financial programme, to work on rural light - opticization and construction of high - speed networks or 5G. As the plan says, it's still about that. 12,000 homes in a national country without access to fiber optics I hope we can finish connecting these homes during the season, and hopefully it's funded. I miss that there is no further discussion of the challenge we face, i.e. Security in the roads, in the wilderness, and in the funding thereof. Communicators do not see any financial hope there, so there are many areas that do not connect with the telephone. It's a security matter, so I think the General and the government have to work on filling out the missing holes. What approach may not be fundamental as long as communication can be assured, and at times life and death may be a matter of play, as we have seen. Which leads count the highest. A minister is moved to improve communication security in areas where a relationship is poor today or not exactly present?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u44	- A wonderful president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is true that telecommunication is an extremely important key to the development of all kinds of important communications. I have strong hopes that there will be an end to this council. Only the high speed connection between fiber optics and Iceland, which is a light - related continuation, is one of the priorities of my new Ministry. It is an important structure of fiber - optic cables and to ensure the aims of a national telecommunication network, whether for the highway system or for tourism. Moreover, the possibility that governments can contribute to greater security, whether on roads or outside, at tourist attractions, and elsewhere, is strengthened by the efforts or opportunities and tools of a new telecommunication bill. The Environment and Transport Committee, to define the frequency and integration of the systems so that if one falls out, there are conditions in certain areas where safety has not been good enough. There is much opportunity to strengthen national security at places where telecommunications have not been sufficiently secure, to cooperate with the market companies, to seize one another, to support and work together at certain locations. The Ministry is alone in the practical and ambitious structure of telecommunications throughout the country, with this legal update and also a rule. We set the game rules, but with the regulations I was referring to, there are sources of cooperation and coordination, both to increase safety and practicality throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and hopefully it will work to prevent holes in the system, both in the wilderness and in the roads of the country. Hopefully, this will not be a problem to finance in the future. But let's go back to our communications and maybe other forms of communication. The budget of 2023●2027 says: It is important to strengthen the defenses of infrastructure in Iceland during the programme period. Among the factors to be carefully considered are projects related to the safety of subcontinental devices linked to Iceland and North America. Under this rule, the Russian army has moved up in the past few years, and with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, further tensions in the North Atlantic can be expected in the coming years. It is noted that at the beginning of the year, fiber optics were damaged and thought to have been caused by man. How easy it is for hostile nations to destroy our major connections with the outside world, the subcontinent guides! So I ask the highest. Minister: What measures can we take in the years to secure the safety of underwater cables that connect Iceland to the outside world? How does a minister feel about doing this, and how should it be financed? Can we really, in this approaching world, as we have seen, in the face of a war in Europe, make sure that we are pretty sure that fiber optics are not damaged, so we will not be connected with the outside world?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u46	A respectable president. This is a legitimate concern. Senator. For the rest of the community, safe and stable communication with the foreign countries will become ever greater and more important. We have as an island in the Atlantic Ocean a special place. The connections are expensive, and they are based almost entirely on these communal cables. Of course, it is difficult to say how we can protect ourselves from harms caused by humans other than to be keenly aware of safety in that area. We've got defenses like the Marine Corps. They've given us a certain role at sea. We have two good, strong patrol ships. A telecommunication clinic is very aware of all threats and also makes a risk assessment. If any cord breaks, if all strings are broken - what is to be done, what is our position, what is the possibility of a satellite, etc.? A telecommunication clinic is working tirelessly to ensure the environment, to ensure any action that may occur, whether by human means or by environmental threats or by other factors that we do not see directly. It's also very important that we are working on the third telecommunications cable, which I have to mention, which will lie between Iceland and Ireland. The aim is to make it work at the end of this year or at the beginning of the next year. It also counts with security that there are no weak strings, here are new strings, and there are strings that can replace others if anything happens. These threats are real, and we need to take them seriously. So it is important to review important structures, how we react to threats, what the situation is, and what we do if anything comes up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u47	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I wanted to start by discussing just part of the financial program that has to do with innovation. It says, with President's permission, that the policy should be made that Iceland is the ideal field for foreign specialists and their families to pursue. The goal is to increase them from about 800 in 2021 to 1,200 in 2027. Now experts who have already gone through this process and applied for it describe their experiences in the process of applying for such a work permit as degrading, expensive, and incredibly complex. This complex system is also very time-consuming and it is not uncommon for application processing to take about six months. Those of us who have experience with the international labour market know that six months is an eternity, and it takes quite a lot of love in Iceland to wait so long for a career that will take days or, at most, one or two weeks from now on. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what the Minister intends to do to facilitate this process so that it is not so that people do not want to come here. It's not just the descriptions of the experts that are like this, you've heard similar descriptions from pioneers and others who've been trying to hire people outside the EEA. What can we do to fix this, and what will a minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for coming into this room. It was very important to me that this was a set of standards explained in a financial program, for we hardly see the result if we do not have such a set of standards. It is one of the priorities of six new department priorities, trying to help with the arrival of foreign experts. Although it does not depend on the Ministry legislation, it is extremely important for the development of the Ministry's case classes and absolutely impossible for us to achieve our goals, the number of goals laid down in financial programmes, without increasing the number of foreign experts, the system has more support, faster, and open. We have simply been far too narrow about jobs here in Iceland. And I've said many times, and before I sat down in the throne of the Neo-creation Minister that we need more opportunities for people to come here and improve their quality of life and work, and not just for them but for us, because we need it, and these intellectual and knowledge articles will not grow without it. We're checking it out, and it's right, it's like three to six months. We have found a number of wands, companies that have gotten to them foreign experts, both those who have done well and those who have had such problems, and unfortunately they are more stories. There's a lot of things that play into the system being so slow, e.g. The situation at the Foreign Institute now. But we need to be careful that such times, which can always arise, do not delay people from coming and working here. We do not want such factors to have an impact. But we also need to review the definition of experts because that is, for example, the definition. Not all of us, and we have to be more open there and change the law. I'll call the Department of Social Affairs and Justice to that job when we've plotted the situation and the opportunity to cut the time, but also open the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u49	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. If there's anything you can do to help keep this up, I'm not lying on my team. I just want to mention one thing that can be considered; it was said of doing the same for the families of the experts. The system is now so that spouses do not automatically get employment permits. This is what I call a '50s thought, that your spouse should only be at home and cook because you're the expert. This doesn't belong in the 21st century. My second question involves subsidies on the cost of evolution. In recent years the support of the State, in the form of reimbursement for development and laboratory costs, has increased rapidly. In 2020 this figure was about 5 billion, but it increased to 11.7 billion in budget by 2022, with 10 billion last year. If I read the budget correctly, this will be estimated to be about 10 billion per year. Just as small innovation companies have been able to make good use of this new business, so both large and brilliant companies have now been able to make good use of it. We can assume that if the job is the highest. Ministers are doing well for the increased demand for these reimbursements, where there will be more innovation companies. So I would like to ask the highest. Minister whether it calculates by placing increased restrictions on what will under payable costs or on which companies can apply to face the changing budgets because innovation is increasing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u50	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator inside this job is an opinion about the status of a mate and there have been reports; one story now walks on the community media of a hot woman who comes from the United States but is dismissed from a country where she does not agree with this definition of expert and lack of jobs. It just doesn't make sense, and this is exactly what I've been talking about. But this is a fine example of what we need to change. For research and development, that's an important point. We put an enormous investment into this point in Covid, and we continue to make small changes, though. The financial secretary's bill on the ongoing provisional principle is now, with slight changes in the ceiling, where the funds are raised, is slightly lower than in the campaign in Covid. I think with this and all the billions of these, we're creating an opportunity, creating exports. We are creating valuable jobs and opportunities here. But we need to realize that we have grown to an enormous amount of money. Therefore, we need to be careful that they are going to the right place; we need to see if we are looking at the applications correctly; if we put the money in the right places. That's why we've requested OECD's opinion, not only to compare ourselves with other countries where we want to be excellent and best in this future but also to see where we could do better, because it's now more than 10 billion, like what's happening. A senator says, and then let's just see what income comes from every company every year in the box. This is becoming, and if not already the word, one sixth part of all income tax provided by the companies we return to research and development. We need to make sure that they go into these valuables, to strengthen this new export. That's what we're going to do, we're going to make good use of this money, and hopefully we'll get paid in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u51	Madam President. I would like to begin my case here with the highest commendation. Minister for political quiet when she left her magazine earlier, it was a professional thing to do. In the past few years, innovation has grown in fish, and productions based on the software industry have increased by 50% since 2018. It's like the highest. A minister himself has said that we need to build our economy on more pillars, and intelligence is there our greatest opportunity. It's been very exciting to watch the development of a case and see the production of Icelandic enterprises, e.g. of Wasabi in Flasville, spirine in Lake Mey, the development of Kerci's biomechanics on Isafjordur, or watching Controlant, in Reykjavík, producing products that have changed the world to a critical point of the pandemic. Ideas are extremely important functions. I don't think it's possible to not mention it, although it's not possible to mention all companies and all articles, companies like CCP and others working on video games production and the companies working on software for our Icelandic careers like seabeds, agriculture and so on. In order to seize the precious opportunity of innovation, however, funding is important. The financial program shows that contributions to the seminary are increasing by 31.9 billion dollars. Over the years, it was 2,2230226. I'd like to ask the highest. A university, industrial, and innovation minister of whether it counts well enough, in view of an important increase in income in the economy of innovations and the importance and support of the economy, which over the years can depend on national expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Like what? A senator mentioned that we have gone to great attendance. We've changed the entire environment of innovation in Iceland, and we did it during the pandemic. It was proved that this export was on our side when other articles did not do so because of circumstances beyond our control. It's so nice to see all the activity, wherever it is, e.g. in the last week, where there was a new strength from Loa, which is especially for the country, to connect young pioneers in the north and invest in all the country, to present ideas and opportunities and hopefully more jobs in many parts of the country. And because of what? One senator asks if I think it's enough to do so, I'm going to say, " Yeah, that's the best thing I can do. Here we are saying: We took these counter measures in Covid, and we are going to continue them. They do not drop down, and there is a pretty clear priority for the government, which deals with a great challenge in this financial programme, trying to handle the situation, returning the situation to the same level as it was for the longer term pandemic, setting priorities, making better use of money than at the same time under employment tools, exports, etc. I'm so happy about this. At the same time, I think we can use our money even better in the system. Therefore, I think the review of reimbursement for research and development from OECD will be important, but we also need to understand the growth environment. Where's the money? Where does the government need to enter? Where may the government have to step back and say, "Look, the market has solved the whole thing, now we can hold on here, but the support is missing somewhere else? But we can also direct our eyes to social challenges, whether in climate or in sustainability or otherwise, in order to promote intelligence and draw to our superior companies for an extended period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u53	President. Yes, thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I'd like to use the second two minutes I have here to focus on other factors but stick to innovation. It is clear that there has been a significant decrease in the distribution of funds to innovations in Iceland. Then, women suffer immensely. Women are learning in the fields of innovation, such as science, technology, engineering. Women are also applying for strength, but for some reason they do not seem to find out. It is similar with the fact that in recent years, for example, innovation has been made stronger, for example. Through the Technical Development Fund, there is not enough progress in the country. I would also like to think about criticism of the sponsoric system. The Lou Fund is very good, because of the highest. A minister named him. As the funds increase, the more funds needed to gain money, the process becomes reversed. It takes more work to apply, even for a small company, and it takes time and energy from the company. The application process is often very complex, and this may result in a system becoming less understood. There's less money coming, and business needs to put a lot more work into getting there. I'd like to ask a minister if she's not concerned about that position and what the minister can do to improve this angle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. We only mention in the financial program that the proportion of women among pioneers is low in Iceland. For research and development reimbursement, men are about 75% candidates. An important step was taken last week when Ranni's Data Square opened. All the evidence is visible there, where public funds are going, whether to women or to men, to each part of the country, and to any other country. This demonstration is important when talking about support for innovation and public funds. We need to map the gender motive in the innovation sector better. We've been running a lot, we've had a lot of injections into the system, but we need to take a longer look at this. That is also good news, but we do not have all the numbers in front of us and those we have not yet accurate enough. But if we just look at Kía, which was founded in the last terms, which were invested in funds, and where money is being controlled, then three funds were invested last. One fund is controlled exclusively by women, another fund is controlled to half of women and to half of men and the third fund is directed to two thirds of women. So there is some good news about this too. But this is what we need to get together. We need to better define where we are and where we are more difficult. We've been running so hard that Iceland will be a new country for the future, and then we must not forget the equality issues, as I also came into my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u55	Madam President. I just wanted to pick up something new at the highest. The Minister of innovation in the context of the ideologies I think will be provided by the Ministry that Icelandic intelligence should become the nation's largest export and then, in the context of the reality we see of the collections until now, i.e. that women in innovation describe their survival to capitalism. I ask if a minister believes that there is an option, the distribution of funds through these public bodies, such as Crime, Rannis, and other funds, that there will be a direct demand for certain gender proportions, taking into account other viewpoints. We know how such a rule is made when we are trying to counteract the sexist. I don't think it's clear in this area that it leans on women, despite the fact that there are signs in the air, as it were at the highest level. Minister's gone over. However, it would be considered that there would be action to take, by regulations or laws, e.g. about Korea, to be considered related to gender ideas and combinations in companies or to those of the organisations applying for funding?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u56	A respectable president. Yes, we have been considering how our gender uses the support systems of innovation that we have been in the race to strengthen. It's very extensive, and we need a little more time to map it better. At the first glance, in general, the position of the sexes is somewhat equal when it comes to the distribution of public research funds; however, higher strength is provided in more - than - one branches, with men still leaning heavily on women in the highest - strength strength subsidies and assigned to the longest period, for example. Women do not attend the competitive fund that supports employment and innovation. In general, though, women are not less likely to get strength than more women apply for them. There's a recovery. Yet, the proportion of women who come out of such funds has increased in recent years. This mapping is in progress, we're reexamining this whole environment. We've been improving in all areas, whether in funds or in reimbursements, and now we're looking at all of this in our new Ministry. We're taking down the walls that are between us, and the equality issues are one of the things we're looking at. There's no way, so I'll tell you what. A senator, making conditions, but we're still looking at this, and we need to look at the fact that we're not going to be successful in becoming the greatest intelligence of the nation unless we apply the whole nation to that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u57	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I must say that I am very pleased to hear the tone she sounds. I think it's obvious that for the sake of the community, we're also working on the power of women in innovation. We know this well because there are attitudes that show - nothing different from what we know in the context of the personnel interview, but these are interviews in a different context - that women meet challenges other than men. Men looking for funding get a question about opportunities, women get a question about challenges. We also know, and it may rhyme with the personnel interview again, that women get stronger, but in historical terms they get much lower strength than men and far lower strength than they wanted. We also know the moor about the workers' interviews that women only need to be more diligent in asking for a higher salary, that women just need to work harder to start a business. But women are there. They just need to be seen and heard and listened to. I'm very pleased with the answers. Minister because I agree with her that we have as a nation to bet on intelligence, but we obviously stand on bread legs if that is the way it is in our culture that only half of the people have the name. I can't wait to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is a very important discussion, so we need to map it carefully and examine it. One of the tools we're working with at the Ministry is a novelty, so people have access to whatever opportunities are open to, that we see how the public support system is, how we map all the possibilities and support available across the country. It's also the Newborn Table to see how we're moving, what position we're in now, what position we were in when we started this injection and where we're going in this ideal period with the support we're in this financial program. It is also an incredibly important tool to examine and identify where we are, so I'm especially pleased with Dr. Ranni, since it's quite beneficial. I hope that an even greater degree of transparency will remain in official support. At the end, I just want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you for this fine discussion of all these Department's lawsuits. There are tremendous opportunities to cooperate fully with these groups. I don't think the opportunities are really out of order. They deal with our future, with sustainable development, innovation, intelligence and equality guided by the lawsuits that have been introduced here today, whether by college, by opportunities there, by innovation, by telecommunications, etc. If we follow them, there are opportunities all over the country, and we are given much support to them in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u59	A respectable president. There is war in Europe, and we in Iceland have moral obligations to our brothers and sisters in Ukraine. OECD has estimated that it may cost Europe 0.25% of GDP per year to receive refugees from there. If we transfer it to Iceland, the national product, it's about 7 billion a year. To compare, e.g. 10 billion each year in development cooperation and 4 billion in foreign languages under the budget of this year. I just can't quite see, when I look at this financial program and look at the budgets, that these are meeting these challenges, that they are meeting the increasing number of refugees, and increasing pressures with increased donations. So I want to pray to the highest. The Minister of Justice to explain to us how this views him and how world situation, war in Europe, duties in Iceland, responsibility for the people in need, is reflected in this government budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u60	A respectable president. It is clear to me that we Icelanders are shouldering responsibility in these matters in line with what other nations do. In fact, when it comes to this class, laws are easier than they are, although changes have been made in order for us to work closer to what is known in our neighboring countries. Now, at this time, around the March/ April or early April, have come here for a flight of about 1,000 people. It is much more than we have ever faced, so the challenges are great. It was difficult to recognize this trend, although it was certainly assumed and repeatedly pointed out from the Ministry that there would be a hole in the way of relief by people under Covid. In other words, we are seeing even greater and greater issues than the previous working on the budget of the year. We have responded in ways that I have made the government aware of the situation and that we will, in order to live up to the legal factors that we are supposed to take care of in these matters, have to overtake the financial resources available to us. Other factors are inevitable. How hard it will be to see in our current environment, which, in my opinion, will run for hundreds of millions of dollars. Today's budget is but billions, probably somewhere around 4 billion, and not all of it is numbered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u61	A respectable president. As mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers have come here at least A thousand people from Ukraine. Now this budget is submitted after war failure, and I find that even though the situation somehow is expected, in the program that we discuss here, and take many days to discuss, a reduction in the contribution to this topic area - well, or the contributions are as good as done. The manager of a reservation at the National Institute of Foreign Affairs was interviewing at Channel 2 this morning and told of the resources that opened up in Domus Medical last night, a reception center of police, Foreign Institutes, Multihuman Park, and Health Care. The thought behind it is that individuals can attend all the necessary services in one place. It has been said that this plan is for the future. If additional donations are not taken up on these specific matters, how does a minister realize that this could be dejected properly? Doesn't it have to be more predictable in these substances? Is the financial program in this regard, in the case of refugees, just immediately out - of - date although it was submitted some weeks after war in Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u62	A respectable president. It's not unusual. It's a matter of concern to the generals. I have that too. Actually, it's not 1,000 people from Ukraine alone who have come here, if my information is correct, it's something good about 700 people, and more than 300 of them are of other national groups. It is true that this situation has been opened in Domus Medical. That is exactly what they do to improve the ministry of the people under whom they serve. This is the goal of having one place where it can attend all its services to make it more efficient. Work on a financial agenda takes a long time, it is natural to treat it now at the council, and the council can make changes if necessary. But I just want to remind you that in a financial program, just as in financial terms, the government is expected to have a set reserve of billions of dollars to deal with such conditions. It is just the conditions we are experiencing today in foreign affairs, which, however, were somewhat unpredictable and may still be dependent on great uncertainty, and it is difficult to determine how much this will eventually cost. All our hopes are in order for the war to come to an end as soon as possible. Let's hope it works. This will result in great changes. If, as some predict, the problem persists, the problem becomes even more permanent and perhaps more severe. Then we have this reserve even. to resort, which is meant to be used in such situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u63	A respectable president. Police surveillance committee was set up 2017, and since then three committees and one employee have carried out the work there. At baseline, it was considered sufficient to have one employee in a 50% occupational rate, but it soon became clear that this was not enough and the subject had reached a 100% work ratio at the end of the year. The Committee also estimates that there would be about 30 cases a year, since then the number of cases has been over 100. The issue of the committee is heavier than at the outset, and the committee has repeatedly pointed out the need for at least two standing values for lawyers, especially to shorten the treatment period of the committee and improve the treatment process. The Commission has asked whether to improve the impact of the Commission and to promote its role and source, depending on political policies and budgets. The financial program even says so. that during the past year, changes in law were made in order to improve the effectiveness of the Commission on police surveillance and its increased sources. An even greater need for external police surveillance, while contributing to the internal police quality monitoring to ensure that laws, regulations, and procedures are carried out. It is important to ensure the safety of police at work and to provide the best possible services and the highest possible level of security. This was a cautionary legal adjustment, which was certainly done, but better if possible, and despite the fact that from 2018 the committee pointed out that there is still a need for a rise in the standards of the Committee to this day just one professional lawyer at the Committee. So I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how he intends to proceed with police surveillance. Does this include increasing funding to the Committee and secondary standards? There is a need, and it is vital that we increase the role of the committee, the police, and the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u64	A respectable president. Here is an important subject and illustrates how much the development of this committee was needed in its time. We are also now in preparation for a law-change in which we are actually increasing police reportings that are extremely important, especially with organized violations and sensitive lawsuits, such as sexual offenses. Of course, such increased responsibilities and responsibilities that we bring to the police must be answered with a strong internal check. So this is to our examination now, along with the changes we are making and the calls we have received from these sources. I set up a special team in cooperation with the sheriffs at the beginning of this year, and I expect some of the results in the form of a team from this service today on the spring. There we are studying many aspects of the police operation, guided by being able to use more fully the 21 billion cost of law enforcement each year, 21,000 billion. K. That's a lot of money. There is a call for an increase in the number of policemen, and we are considering how we can use this funding by harmonizing jobs and increasing perspective. There is increased stress in all the police research work that comes with changing circumstances in the form of increased computer knowledge and computer abuse in organized crime. There is an opinion in this department that works by the Ministry, and I expect us to respond when that work is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u65	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. From that answer, I believe clearly that he intends to improve the police work environment and the activities involved. Clearly, the role of the committee will not be fully carried out by one employee, who does very much of the day - to - day work and actually takes care of all the activities of the committee outside the decision - making process. Last year's metal index was e.g. 103 and the remaining 22 cases have entered the board of the committee. However, the committee has done some intensive work and has improved and established a solid operation within the police, defined a series of procedures, and made changes in their cooperation with the State Marshals and police authorities throughout the country. Unbelievably much has been won and listened to and respected by the police class as the committee's comments have increased. However, the recommendation is not binding. In fact, it is a recommendation to the chief of police to take certain measures, but it is not binding. It's like the highest. There is a need for extra surveillance to comply with increased research clearance, and we must not put together surveillance of important jobs in another category, such as police work are. The police and the public deserve to consult with the police, and, when necessary, the police are able to consult a surveillance committee for their purpose in dealing with the police. It's important that all of this, that the law and the surveillance are out of control in their tactics. I'd also like to ask: Who is the minister's vision of police operations, both in terms of the operation itself and also in terms of funding?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u66	A respectable president. You can agree with all the excellent views as well as that of others. A senator held up here. In my discussion with the police officer and with the police, everyone in that field is aware of the importance of this. Happily, we live under the circumstances that the police in Iceland have great trust in the public. Of course, we need to trust the basis for that trust. A fundamental factor is that the national law enforcement, police, and others in the area where safety is to be maintained also, are safe and secure in their activities and that we provide them with security. In this changed world, we have a very challenging question about how far we can go, but there have been discussions about a number of factors that can play in there and that are considered in the Ministry right now. On the other hand, it is fundamental, and it is only necessary to examine the reports of organized violations in Iceland and the development of the serious developments that are taking place in that area, that it is extremely important for the police to receive increased sources, more extensive research authority. We are a complete submers in this regard, in comparison with the nations we are closely cooperating with in Europe and especially in the North countries. It's a coordinated effort. It is an understanding everywhere of the importance of this and the future of my vision in that we will promote this service along with increased responsibility, which, of course, will not happen in this case unless we add funds to the Party. Already, more than 80% of the cost is just what pays in the management of this institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u67	A respectable president. News media have been reported to the highest level. Minister of Justice will provide a bill that will replace the entire country with the nine who are now a member of the county. It has also been observed that Iceland's CDC considers such unity to be improving and that it may be moving so fast as in the bill. Fear, when it is announced, is aroused that the close - up services will be cut down, in particular that the administrative centres on the country will be laid down. In this context, I refer to the book of the Western Township Council, March 24th, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ Any Minister of Justice after others has planned to put down the county position that is seriously weakened here in the islands, a office that has been being promoted by the island businessman recently. [...] There are no new tasks defined in the Ministerial review, but it is essential that these be defined as ministers' intention to strengthen their office. The Western government strongly protests these plans, where it cannot be seen how to strengthen its office and will do everything within our power to reroute the Minister's plans like his predecessor and work on further expansion of the work of the island government. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it a requirement to put down the county work posts in the country or to compromise the function of the office in another way? If so, why is it that people in the country are affected in such a way, and what is the purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator especially for this question because it is very important to explain this matter here, since there has been a big misunderstanding in the discussion and criticism of the plans being carried out. This also applies to the town council in the Western Islands, and perhaps especially since I had now pointed out to the mayor for the town council that had been held on the matter of reading, although only the report of the Ministry's Homepage, which I desired. A senator to do the same, which, of course, explains the way we are going. There's going to be a huge change in the entire environment of the county bodies, as I brought in with more offices under the Ministry. There are digital solutions, an electronic service is taking over a lot of projects. We must look to the future when these situations appear to us, and we must be in the driver's seat in bringing these changes, not let them run on our side and react after they have done so. This is gonna happen. This will change the work environment of the staff, and new practice needs to be developed, new technology needs to be developed, and it needs to be trained to cope with new projects. It doesn't stand to shut down one county job station across the country. It stands to increase the number of jobs at the county settlements, especially in the country. We are quite special, as I came into my speech earlier, looking to it - and it is one of the basic goals and underlying goals in all our work when it comes to police and courts and businessmen - to fulfill the promises that have been made to increase jobs, so there is no other thing. These are known to the people. I believe we're trying to beat some political cones, which is not really a motive. It's bad because it puts fear in staff that's totally unnecessary. I've been in the last few days, and weeks I've been between the county and I've introduced these changes. [[The president calls.]] They're working on this in close cooperation with local authorities, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u69	This financial program states on these plans, with the permission of the president: With the breakdown of jurisdictional laws, rich cooperation between work stations and increased emphasis on digital services, different kinds of specialists can be built at every place that serves the whole country and can also receive greater government projects. Thus, each work station will continue to be a strong workplace in the province, a better service to citizens, more efficient business and management. This seems to indicate that jobs should not be put down, although it is due to treaties. However, like the Guguna of Isafjordur, it is an old tug to say that nothing will change. Work without location has been discussed recently. It has often been discussed as to whether various regional administrations are not to be carried out to promote a positive urban development. I remind you that a considerable percentage of all jobs are government jobs, but a branch of government workers works here in the capital area. There is nothing to say that these jobs need to be localised, and our experience with Covid has certainly shown that not all jobs need to be confined to an office in Reykjavík. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it the policy of this government to increase the number of jobs in the country? If so, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what his ministry will put on the scales in that regard. Very much. Minister, e.g. does the fact that jobs in his Ministry are going to be without a location?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u70	A respectable president. There is a lot of talk about jobs without any location or reason. A senator does it here. In this discussion, I have avoided talking about jobs without a location. For what? Because it's a two-way sword, in my opinion. Right away. A senator and others discuss jobs without a location is usually the meaning that jobs should be exported to the country, people can do jobs that are available here. But jobs without location may also exist in the capital area, i.e. jobs in the country can also be worked in the capital area. This is not my goal with the changes I'm going to make, although I believe that it is an unbreakable part of the future that jobs without places will gain added meaning and become much more part of our lives and even jobs at home. The goal of achieving a better service for civilians in these changes and of growing jobs in the country is absolutely clear, as I have repeatedly been on. We're not closing anyone's work stations. We're also going to improve the service in the more widely distributed settlements where people are on a longer track, where operating centres are not available by negotiations with rural administration offices in places that can provide certain welcome and delivery roles for county work centres to save people the steps. These are basics. I'm not making any changes, either to the county work environment, police, or courts, other than that these goals are achieved because, in my opinion, the situation is worse than at home. But will this affect the staff? A job you're taking from anywhere and moving to shore at the same time as you're reducing your jobs due to digital production, electronic services - all of these jobs, they save so much from these new technologies, they're reducing their jobs somewhere. [[The president calls.]] However, the objective of these changes is to ensure national work stations and services in order to improve habitat quality and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u71	Madam President. In this fine piece of paper we are here discussing, it says about the legal rights of individuals, by permission of presidents: To ensure effective and reasonable services for all individuals to enjoy the rights they have here on the country is the forward vision of the topic field. The main objectives of the topic field include The government's professional and effective treatment. In 2015, a young Syrian family, a couple with two preschool girls, turned to the country and asked for the status of refugees in this country. They had been granted international protection in Greece some time before they had lived under absolute poverty, without access to housing, health care and other basic needs, and without any chance of providing safety against violence and other threats to their children, let alone adequate living conditions. According to the Common Foreign Code, the Icelandic government was not to accept their application for the material treatment of the country. So they were denied an audience by the Foreign Institute and ordered that they transfer back to the street in Greece without taking their application for inspection. This young couple were fortunate, however, because they reached the ears and eyes of the public in Iceland, which eventually led to the temporary administration of temporary housing laws at the time of the government. By the sentence of the current law on foreigners set up in 2016, the rules were changed in a way that allowed governments and even obliged to accept people's applications in the same situation as this small family to consider in the country, as the demand for the public was loud in that direction. Now it's time to go to the top. The Minister of Justice changes the law and eliminates this government obligation to look into such matters. Yet, much claims are made that the change will not diminish the right protection. So I want to start by asking the highest. Minister of Justice in what way he thinks this change will increase effectiveness in the management of applications for international protection if the rights of the people in a situation similar to those of the young Syrian family.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u72	A respectable president. I gladly participate in discussions about foreigners or other lawsuits that hear under the Ministry in general despite the fact that we are here to discuss a national budget for the next five years. I thought questions were why. The senator will not agree with this, but I will do my best to answer it. Yes, these issues are often painful and difficult to deal with, and it is clear that there is a basis for much better action in many cases. Of course, we're trying to aim our work on what's going on and happens to our neighbors, as I've been in the past, and the laws available now for, in the bill I've put forward, just turn around to explain some of the rules and that people who are in this difficult situation and here are looking for answers to these issues. This is in harmony with what happens in other countries. We provide people in this position with legal spokesmen, i.e. Legally educated advocates, and therefore we provide social services. The treatment is such that at the administrative level, the National Institute of Iceland deals with this application and reviews how it is done and what the circumstances are and whether people have the right to have the right to stay in Iceland. This, on the basis of their refusal, can then be appealed to the decision - making committee of foreigners after this extensive trial, where they have a legal attorney beside them. [[The president calls.]] Now we've been in the tough situation that these people who are here in an illegal stay do not leave the country as they should. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u73	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer I understand, that this is not meant to increase efficiency at all, but we are simply a monkey of other countries, which I mentioned and have heard before and many have come to understand. However, in 2016 another legal step was made in addition to what I mentioned earlier, which was to make governments obligated to study the country's application, even though a fugitive's post was taken in another state, the trial is reduced beyond 12 months. This may not be in the European law or in the laws of others, so it is an a specialist rule. This was because it was not considered normal for people to stay here for months and even years, staring at white walls, scraping on weekly allowances from the Foreign Institute, without even considering their application. More changes than the one I mentioned earlier are announced by bill at the highest. A minister of justice, such as the mismanagement of attempts to disassociate matters from the government, should be taken into consideration if the trial is overreached. May I read from the top bill? Minister of Justice in this regard, by permission of the President: The application for the material treatment should not be fully concluded in the case of a administrative level within 12 months of the application, provided that the applicant himself, his partner or his partner or non-company was not a factor in the absence of a time limit. In an explanation of the law bill, it says, by permission of the President: A law that is to be legalized for, including, Hence, children who run away - ▪ may lead to a family with children in marriage or with partners who can force material treatment to be forced into their marriage -- that is, an audience - both knowingly by delaying their speech on purpose. [[The president calls.]] So parents considered to delay their case, as the bill puts it, can. Minister of Justice, force the hearing of the Icelandic government and children who have been here for two months, 24, 36, who knows how long, so they can't stay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] My question to the highest. The minister of justice is: How should this increase effectiveness in the seminary? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u74	A reminder of the time of speech reminds us of why. The members of Congress are here to discuss a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u75	A respectable president. Again, we are discussing foreign affairs with a whole different team. The bill is designed, and its aim is to improve efficiency in the searchers, that they know the rules they are running. This playground needs to be clear. It has been very vague, and it has even been. sad that there has been a group of people with previous applications known to be rejected. Then begins this treatment period that is unpleasant to all and especially to those who attend. So we are just looking at these changes to harmonize our rules with the rules set by the European countries. Hv. A senator put it as if we were copying others. This has its own approach to how the words are addressed when we are trying to maintain harmony in our major cooperation countries, the European Union and the Northern states. I approach that there would be a benefit for all, including those who come here, that they will follow the consistent rules in this regard. I still claim that the service we perform to these people is no less than in other lands, in many respects probably much better. It is not our goal to minimize it. We will continue to welcome instantaneously those who are seeking here, who are threatened by their presence in their own country or other lands. There won't be any change in that, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u76	A respectable president. A sex - treatment program is a tool that we have established to correct the offenses found in the processing and treatment of such fractures. The current programme will expire at the end of the year, and financial programs will start working on a new program that will replace the older one at the beginning of 2023. The current sex - crime treatment strategy clearly shows that the inside of the police should conform to checklists and procedures, shortening the duration of treatment, increasingly refer to specialists who are qualified for symptoms and complications. The same strategy also says that in re-education and training of policemen, there should be a series of active re-education policies and that investigators should take courses to ensure that they are professionally prepared for reporting in the studies of sexual crime. This ensures improvement of the court treatments and further the professional work of the police. It is important to ensure that all, regardless of their background or nationality, their color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender, gender characteristics, gender language, age, economics, disability, health status, or other status, as the program says. As a result, raising funds for law enforcement is a special source of joy in new legal agencies. Then I refer to the 200 million people who are designed to promote investigation and to promote sexual abuse in accordance with the laws of the government. The financial program presented here puts special emphasis on dealing with the challenges of sexual abuse; ensuring the failure of righteous treatment and the shortening of the process. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is aware of the position of the projects that were undertaken on the basis of a previous strategy as well as whether the minister sees an opportunity to do even better in this regard with a new plan and increased donations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u77	A respectable president. This is one of the most sensitive lawsuits we have in law enforcement and research. First, I want to say that there has been a lot of work and good work done, especially that the police and their partners like the Emergency Line and other members who have made a big contribution to the increased trust that comes back in even more counts. That's the environment we want to attract. We've also taken more steps, and it's very interesting to go into the 112.is and then look at these resources, how people can communicate, not necessarily by phone calls, but by how the presentation turns to young people and children and how the police are now going to school, and then by the social campaign we've started this year to increase our awareness that we're all on the watch when it comes to these serious offenses. Yes, the budget was greatly increased this year, and it is a cause of joy and a show of the mind of the government to this important group of subjects. This year, it will result in an increase in the number of police officers carrying out these assignments. Sadly, we live under the fact that the treatment period is too long. I have also provided a bill that has to deal with rights in particular in these matters that change their position, and I hope so earnestly that the council will be able to resolve the issue before spring, that it can be reconciled, although I know there are certain issues, but I hope that the council will take it into account. You don't take police students directly from school, graduates, they need training. This job is going on. We're also in financial programs getting more money, and I'm celebrating it, and I'm actually going to go to the budget committee, and I'm going to make her aware of the situation, and I'm going to look for an increase in these points in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u78	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm especially glad that a minister seeks further funding for the seminary, and also I'd like to thank only the community speech just to strengthen confidence and that people may also be in a position to report to the police. And I'm sure it's also the metoo wave that I'd expect to have an effect there. But I'm going to do a little bit of other things for the highest level. Minister. In particular, I'm glad that the financial programme says that there is a need to add services to candidates who apply for housing or international protection in line with the government's prosperity focus and one of the aims of the programme is the pleasure of customers and that order is humane and clear, as the financial program says. As the situation is today, public service has not yet been negotiated. The legal agreement with the Red Cross was not renewed at the time. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice how he sees the change and whether the change may require extra capital and when he sees that the invitation will come about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u79	A respectable president. Only to the sexual offenses and to this social discussion. A senator mentioned. I think it's a very important step. We increase their awareness and participation in the very presence of the Watch. I just have to say that the effort we started is very intense. That's what you're going to know. Regarding those who are looking for refugees, foreigners, it was originally discussed that this would be an invitation. The agreement with the Red Cross had been extended for a year and realized that it would not be extended any more. There was a change in this service that the Ministry was responsible for under law, which involved them in public service and social service. Socially the service went over the year to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and at the turning point, it seemed reasonable to reconsider the cooperation that had been with the Red Cross and look at other ways. It was originally spoken of as being offered, but after consultation with the Kingdom Hall, it was decided not to do so; nor was the way that has already begun to advertise to lawyers, lawyers to do this service, to make certain demands, and was set out in the advertisement, in fact, measurable conditions for success. This advertisement appeared some time ago, and I don't know that the Foreign Institute has it in a very safe direction, and the service will be ready, and it will not be broken. It can't happen. We have a legal obligation to do this service, and there is nothing more to reduce it than to fulfill it perfectly as it has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u80	Madam President. I was just going to introduce a subject that has been close to earlier in the discussion, but perhaps in a different way than I have been asked about it. Early this year the news of the ultimate power was heard. The Minister of Justice would have ended the deal with the Red Cross on the interests of inmates. Since 2014, the Red Cross has cooperated with governments and has developed a wealth of expertise. It's a complicated and delicate group of subjects, as we know, and I don't think anyone would doubt that the Red Cross did very well. The Ministry's answers have been on the way that a failure occurred when the group of litigators were divided into recruitment with the development of the government after the election. For me, it is not a failure which inevitably leads to argumentation. A group of foreigners are still under the minister of justice. Furthermore, there is no basis for a new agreement made with two departments. I think it's more likely that a minister didn't take comfort in the reviews of the Red Cross experts, who are among us the most skilled experts in the interest of refugees, with a bill he's been fighting for the third time through the council, a bill that has been criticized for making an inhuman and heavy system worse. Most concerned, though, is that the extramateure the Agency has done well is going to be lost, and people coming here will find it more difficult to maintain their rights to the system. However, I am concerned that changing arrangements will be even more costly for the State, that it will be more expensive to care for the litigation of issues that will be distributed between many different parties. I think there's a lot of problems with this operation. So I'm gonna let myself ask you the highest. Minister only on cost assessment within the Ministry, which was it, e.g. before the decision was made? On what does it build, and who does it hope that the benefits will be when expert knowledge is lost and more widely distributed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u81	A respectable president. Hv. Last night, a senator made a different comment about the fact that if I'm correct, people are gasping in the discussion. I don't know what to call it already. The senator speaks to me, that he thinks the minister has not taken heed to trial or to the bottom line of the Red Cross. It's just not been out of my way, and it just doesn't make sense. There's nothing in my statements or in my mind that it was that way. I don't remember talking about some kind of failure for the contracts. However, the changes in the environment resulted in normal changes. There is nothing unnatural about going new ways of rendering this service. It doesn't have to be in my opinion to have the loss of expertise. People who have worked at the Red Cross are just like others in attendance at the Foreign Institute. There must be more than many others when it comes to the experience and knowledge it has to be entrusted to these jobs and to meet the requirements set out in the advertisement. We decided to take other steps to render this legal service. This is not on the basis of our feeling that the cost will increase or that the service will get worse. We feel that all of them can reach the same goals that have been pursued in these areas. I hope the environment will change with new legislation, and I am very optimistic about its success. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u82	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is true that I used the term "gastered" in a speech here at the council yesterday on grounds of a legitimate occasion. I'm not going to know that a term could apply to what I said back here because it's where I was just taking my own thoughts on what I feel is just as likely to be the root of these actions relative to the harshness that has sometimes been in the leprechaunal party at the highest level. Minister belongs. I shall certainly agree that I was not making any claim but, rather, my meditation and assessment of what might likely be based on the highest course. Justice minister of this suit. That's what I'm going to do. But if we talk a little more about the Red Cross, would people who are more sensitive and who need guidance and help find it more reassuring to turn to, the Red Cross, or any other person in the town? Which would we be more likely to feel better about? Would not the favor enjoyed by the Red Cross be more likely to answer than the other? Then I want to put the question to rest because there really wasn't an answer. I'm trying to fish on the cost of lunch, how it went down. The answer was: Our ministry assessment is that this will not increase the cost and so on. But I'm trying to get some kind of work done in the Ministry to appreciate it. What, then, does the Ministry's assessment of benefits rest with? I think that when it comes to more people, rather than being at the Red Cross, the very risk is that the cost of getting out of control, losing expertise, and keeping the outside of this vulnerable group will be worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u83	A respectable president. As much as the minister would want any other conclusion to be made in the matter, it has been observed and all on the basis of the alien political party it represents. Here we are trying to draw some foreigners'feelings on the part of the Independence Party in this discussion. This may be familiar from what happened. A senator, but a very tasteless, respectable president, and unremarkable. Is it not so that the same dog? paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson speaks a lot about our being a better city in the European Union? That's where we're supposed to go, into his arms, with all our regulations and all our activity. The foreign bill that the Minister has given us now and is here for discussion, these matters are less relevant to those who are looking for here than the rule of order in Europe. Yet, we are getting close to it and are trying to follow through on it. Is it, then, that the European Union's regulations in these matters are filled with hatred for foreigners? Hv. A senator must maintain harmony in his language and approach it in a consistent direction. What were the costs? Of course, it is the Ministry's experts who went over evaluating the cost of this project. It is clear, as we have seen in the earlier discussion, that this year's budget was very unpredictable when it came to this class in particular. It was known that there would be a great increase, it has become much bigger than it was, and I have made the government aware of it, and we will have to get out of bed in order to provide this service and other services in the welcome of refugees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's obvious. How was this won? Of course, it was with experts according to the best knowledge and available figures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u84	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss financial plan 2023 a.m. It's under the law, the government's financial policy, which has been in charge since 2017. Of course, we need to keep in mind the journey and challenges we have faced, including the challenges we have faced. following a pandemic, especially when we speak about the health system today. This financial program will make it clear that we have succeeded in these critical times when we are defending the standard of living, the financial resources, the well - being, and the public ministry, including health care. There have been health - related challenges and, of course, the people who carry out their ministry and endurance. We've talked about it here in this council hall. We also know that it is not possible to defend public service. We also live in the health system now that we have improved significantly in the past years beyond physical growth. I think it is also possible to say, a respectable president, that there is a great deal of agreement on this, both here and in society, setting priorities for the welfare of the community. Health concerns are most common in the total budget of expenses or 31%. The budget of the year 2027 will include a total of 335 billion for health care, but it is 318 this year. In comparison, the total production was 177 billion in 2016. There's a tremendous increase here, a respectable president, and I think it brings forward the priorities I was here to indicate. Investment and construction are major during the period of this strategy, and the new land hospital rising, the treatment core of the Ring Road, the weight will increase, but the total amount will be around the end of this period. 92 billion. Then there's the hospital in Akureyri. Departments, the construction and construction of the medical pharmacy there have been abdicating. Selephoss is aimed at expanding the hospital and increasing its population and reorganizing and improving facilities for mental - health teams and emergency departments. During the financial programme, 364 new air space will be implemented and 137 will be improved and we will work on an agreed strategy. If we drag the company forward only then estimated funds will rise from 290 billion, just over, in 2022 to 316 in 2027, during this time of the program. That's 26 billion bucks. which corresponds to approximately 9% absolute increase. It has a high level of hospital service, a language area 23, where this year the budget is 119 billion close and will be 128 billion in 2027. In the context of the sections, this was more than 80 billion 2017, so we have added much increase over the entire period. The real increase is less than 8% during this period. Calculating beds are expected to exceed 800 million. K. every year. Then, a real - life increase of some 1.6 billion dollars is expected. every year. Health services outside hospitals, topic area 24, where there is health care and specialised care, have an actual increase of 13.7%. There is a substantial increase in the amount of money at the same time. So we continue to strengthen our health care needs. If so, we will continue to increase the allowances for mental health care, but they increase by 300 million during the period in addition to the 400 that were being added to the present 2022. A lasting total increase there, so that I refer to the priorities, in mental health, will be 1,650 million 2025 from 2019 C.E. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u85	Madam President. I cannot see that in a financial program, resources are needed because of the aging of the nation. A financial program shows the importance of increasing the amount of resources needed to reduce the need later, but I can't see that this importance is related to financial management and does not seem to increase the number of nurses after 2024. Can this stand? This morning we got a presentation from the McKinsey report on the future development of the National Hospital services. It makes it clear that the new Landspians have already cracked and had long - term absence of space without investing in resources for long term care. The report says that for long - term care patients, such as homework, nurses, and rehabilitation, 240 will need to be added, for otherwise the problem is ablaze. The report discusses the need to transfer long - term care patients from Land Hospital to other and better resources. But there are no plans for these other resources in the government budget until the next five years. In addition, the highest standard recommended. Healthcare Minister for Health Policy to 2030 for the elderly during the days. Nor can I see that this policy is to be financed until 2027 or through the budget of the budget. So I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister if there is a transition between discussions that are expected to contribute to the implementation of ideas for improvement reported in the McKinsey report and whether there is a procedure to support health policy for the elderly to the year 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u86	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Harðardóttir For a very good question, I'd like a new Hardydott. This may be one of our greatest challenges in the years to come. The McKinsey report is a very good staging analysis, such a zero-point analysis if we do nothing compared to the space we're building up in a new treatment core, 740 space. In my speech, I reviewed that we work according to a plan for raising nurses. It is true that then we need to focus on home nursing, walking, and supporting people at home so that they can live longer at home. This is one of the basic challenges we face. Then I'd like to draw it up because of what's happened. A senator entered a council proposal for policy development, which I recommended at the council earlier, that it will follow a plan of action. Then I'd like to remind you that we re-evaluate our schedule every year. If money is not available when we make a plan on this course, then a year's review will be made. That's very important to me in this discussion. This is not an endpoint. This is a plan over the years, and we can't just put some money in here. I think a very important question is... There's a senator throwing out here. In this scene on the expected need for multiple spaces, we are in trouble if we have to do nothing and we do not maintain a plan for the nursing room, and we add to this service and support to people at home as is cast on this course. We need to meet this challenge, as the McKinsey report shows very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u87	Madam President. Of course, financial programmes are being revised each year, but it is also a fact that the strategy for 2020 is the basis for the budget and budget for that year. They just need money in order to get to the top of these emphasises. A health minister mentioned earlier. The global epidemic showed blackness that our health - care system is affected when the system is under such pressure, and nothing is to be taken out of the way in a normal year's round is to use the quality of our resources at the Land Medical Hospital at 97How100%. It is clear, then, that we need a national agreement on health matters, and I thought it would be the best. A health minister would agree. But it does not seem to be, since the financial program we address here does not assume that needed action is being financed. On every side, there is a mental - health procrastinator, but there seems to be no intention of reacting effectively to this challenge. If you are not doing anything to reduce the pressures of your healthcare profession and improve your quality and working conditions, people will disappear from work in the health sector and will have been doing so in the past few years. If the problem is solved, workers need to be more attractive and must plan for financing. I've agreed with the highest. A health minister when he speaks of increased prevention and the importance of human health. However, the budget for public health and welfare administration is dwindling over the years at real value. In the next five years, financial contributions to human health and prevention are dwindling by less than 2 billion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not concerned about this and because financial contributions will not be sufficient to the highest. Ministers are to implement their emphasis on better health, prevention, and public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Oddný Harðardóttir of one who puts out the big questions and major challenges and gives me a chance to answer. If we look into this financial program, we will face the fact that, as I said in my talk, we have defended the standard of living, and we have spent public service. But we've also borrowed money, and we're going to run a government fund with a tilt over the next few years. That means we need to slow down the interest rate of growth, and that's about 1%. Here, though, we are adding more to our health and keep up with the increase in changing ages and growth. Most of it is in the form of a salary into your health system. But it is a huge challenge, absolutely right. Senator, the design. We face it in a report in this financial program, and there are many challenges. It's the education system, the university, and it's in the paper. It's the combination of the labour force, and it's the least of the contracting with all the partners in the system. We were able to negotiate with the nursing home, a five-year contract, here last week, which is a joy. We need to negotiate with each other in the system so that we can increase the interaction in the system, increase the coordination and newness of human beings. It will not be overlooked. Then I want to thank you. A senator for implementing a preventive measure because I'm starting a public health policy group and I'm here to plan a strategy for prevention, and the McKinsey report will include: ... inthatwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u89	President. At my virgin talk earlier this week, I discussed health matters in the Western Islands. As a result, I was contacted by a doctor in the Aegean Health Care Unit, Davíð Egilsson. I would like to communicate with the minister of Davíð's indications, for I believe it is important that a minister take them into account. He said, with permission of the highest. President: ▪ The fact is that there are only two fixed doctors in the island, but it really would have to have at least two. five fixed doctors. During the past 103/415 years, there has been a reduction in the number of medical patients. The clinic is closed, the age of society is rising, and more sick people live at home longer. The weight of these changes falls primarily on health care. At the same time, it has been harder and harder for humans to have doctors, whether their positions are fixed or if they are treated by a surgeon. Half of the year in the island is but one contractor. This means a lot of stress, it's not only heavy shifts but also heavy shifts in terms of community size and isolation. This situation will worsen as many doctors in the country near the retirement age. In the next few years, the number of home doctors will graduate in Iceland, but there's nothing that says they're going to look abroad at work, nothing that will drag them here, no pay, no business conditions. There has been money added to certain aspects of health care; mental - health care teams and support groups; but in fact, nothing has been done to improve basic services, the health - care providers. The result is worse service to the inhabitants of the country. Proper health care and prevention are replaced by emergency services that need priority. I would like for a greater weight to be added to my basic service. It must ensure assessment of the medical and other professions and ensure the inhabitants of the country's population the basic services that the State shall perform under law. - How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers respond to this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u90	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Georg Eiður Arnarson for Hv. A senator actually brings up the challenge we face in caring for the country, especially in the case of design. It's a huge challenge, how we face it. That's right. That's right. In fact, even some doctors who have been employed in the country are on the move to retirement. It's just a challenge. My career predecessor set up the National Council on design and education in health care. It's a long-term project, but at the same time, it's a short-term project that worries you. I see that we can reach a goal, to a shorter time, to increase some cooperation and interaction in the system, both with health institutions and with the broadcasts. It should be the basis for the crowd at least four [therapeutics], that is correct, even five if it should be well. And the service. I'll agree with that, but there's two staffed up, and then there's someone to step in. Then there's what happened. A senator made a good point here, i.e. Special Service. But there are a lot of good things done in the Western Islands, so let us not forget it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u91	V.E.G. Minister. I appreciate the answers. Before that, I discussed the health care of the island. The situation is similar in many parts of the country. I'm aware that at least There are 4,000 inhabitants of Smokejanestown who need to attend the health care unit in Reykjavík. All these tourism in the country to attend health care services can hardly be practical for society, as road pressures and emissions and all that is associated with them are increasing. At least this is not in accordance with the government's focus on climate. Also, I would like to reiterate our country's demands that we receive specialists more frequently. They just don't see them anymore. Not at all. Many people with long-term diseases have now noticed that instead of picking up a number of packages in one prescription product, only one pack is suddenly supplied every time the medicine is replaced. So I'd like to ask a minister if this is done in a practical way. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if the supply of drugs in Iceland - I have heard that certain drugs are not being supplied today for the war state. Does a minister have any information on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u92	V.E.G. President. I thank a senator for the answer. Hv. paritaprevir Georg Eiður Árnason is very impressed with this problem we are dealing with, which is a mental - health problem, and especially when it comes to specialist care. We need specialists on our side, and of course we need to make a deal with them. I think it's a big part of being able to improve the interaction and cooperation between the national reforms. Of course, there is always to some extent a medical service that needs to be brought up in the fasting area, we know, but we should try to take care of it better. So I look at it more quickly than, of course, would be the wish for the future, that we would have as many of the basic branches all over the country. If I look at the whole country as a whole, I will also look at the contracts in the lake, repairing the medical institutions and the two hospitals. For the medicines, this is a very good question. I don't know what medication you're taking. A senator is referring to him. I'll only ask that at the Ministry, the expert who has this. According to my last information from the surgeon general's office, at a university hospital, we have enough medicine for the time we are looking at and for those we're accepting from Ukraine because of that. A senator mentioned it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'll ask about this particular drug.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u93	President. I wanted to talk to the health minister about mental health and rehabilitation services. I cannot see that this group is being promoted by any awareness in a financial program, in this government policy, the first policy of a new government. I find this hard to believe because it is a problem with speech, both former health - care minister and current health minister. So I'd like to ask a minister what's going on in that case. He considered this in his opening talk. But how's the big one? Healthcare secretary to respond to this increased need for mental health care and to increase the need for rehabilitation services, especially now following Covid? There is evidence that there is an increase in mental health as a result of Covid, that there is an increase in drug abuse, and the need for a system to grab these people sooner than later, because we know that it will cost us enormous money into the future if we wait too long. There's already a big waiting problem in the system that means we're taking it all too late, and now it's about to get bigger. This long wait is particularly fragile in the case of children, and we know that early intervention by children is crucial to the prevention of long - term and often irreversible damage. There has been a lot of discussions recently on the need to promote, for example. BUGL, but I can't find in this policy that there's a chance. There's an increase in funding for the hospital that doesn't even cover the need for money because of demographic changes. The County Hospital has spoken of 2% needed, but the Ministry calculates 1.5%, plus another 800 million for an exposé. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he can explain to me where to find this. How will a minister grab these delicate groups while the hospital is not being financed enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for drawing attention to this important mental - health class. I'm just gonna say it's true. A senator says, all indications are that during the last two years of a pandemic, anxiety and depression have increased. I reviewed it in my speech here that we have put 400 million plus 100 this year to 2025, 100 being added each year, so from 2019 it is 1,650 million who are permanently involved in the mental - health system. We have established a multidisciplinary mental - health team throughout the country, which was a very good step, and we are trying to promote health care in support of the services that were available at the Land Hospital, because of this. A senator mentions BUGL. And then we're looking for early intervention and trying to activate the whole system, health care and school, and there I refer to the success of children, me and the highest. The Minister of Education and Child Affairs has set up work there. On the other hand, I think deeply about these lists, and it is very clear in the budget that is somehow starting to get ahead of it. I'm trying to get some information from the Ministry on why this is happening. This is in no way involved in what we're trying to do. I just want to pray. A senator to join me to find out why the list of waiting increases. [[The president calls.]] I think there may be a double registration and other events, but there's a lot of talk about a central waiting list.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u95	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There's way too little time to talk here, but I always have a minister on the team when it comes to some positive and good change. I just wanted to take this further because we were getting an introduction to Mckinseyr's report on the future development of the Health Committee this morning, which shows that there will be a lot more funding in the hospital to take on important counter measures to prepare the health system for future challenges. We are still in a place where we are always in a position to turn off fires instead of being able to build up and prepare, and to have some forward work in structure because we do not place enough money in the hospital. The amount of money is dwindling because of demographic changes. There is not enough to go to this important structure, so we can stop using fires all the time. That's one question. When can we get to a place where we can do more things and do more building work and think more of the time within the medical system? When do we invest properly in this system? The other questions I wanted to ask about mental - health services remain, for I am a little worried that the position of psychiatrists in the health care of the capital area has been resolved. I have heard many criticismal voices that are concerned that by this means the professional coordination of psychologists between work stations that have established this result in psychological services in the medical institutions. This will make that coordination disappear. There is no psychologist now who directly establishes a psychological service in the Agency. The danger is that the services that will be rendered inexorably and that unfounded treatments will be given to the mental condition that may require a much greater intervention. So my question to the minister is, is this something that a minister has to consider? [[The president calls.]] Is this something that needs fixing? I'm worried that the funding we are putting in a mental - health service at the health care clinic will not be well spent as long as we don't make sure that there is a consistent and beneficial treatment at all clinics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u96	V.E.G. President. First, these organizational changes in the health care of the psychologists. I have come to a conclusion from the Psychological Association, and I intend to file a case with the director of the health care of the capital area, the way he visualizes the organization, and the effect this has, because I have seen them express a measure of anxiety. A senator came in. As for the mental - health issues, I would also like to say that there are plans for a contingency proposal and a very broad group working on a mental - health plan. I think it's very important, when we talk about Land Hospital and Building and the challenges mentioned at McKinsey, to look to the mental hospital at the Land Hospital because we're making a mental examination of all the old buildings, and I think it's very important to watch the mental department there and how we build this up. There's just so many things we have to put our arms around in this big context. I was only going to come on, because we're changing the organization into the clinic, and because there's only been a discussion in development and behavior, where the waiting lists are getting longer, that we put 75 billion. K. The amount of money entered that service, but there was an increase in the list. There is an urgent need that we must look to. However, for these groups to improve, much is being changed. But it's just a fact that the Covid period has slowed down a lot of services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u97	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying that I'm proud of Icelandic health care services, and especially the powerful staff who are working there, and I want to use this opportunity to thank Icelandic health care professionals for having endured an extremely complex pandemic situation. But here we will discuss the government's financial plans. In financial planning, it is important that all information is available when experts advise on how much money is needed in each category. Today's media reports on the transfer of screens to health care and the importance of such activity in the hands of the State. It'll even come. magazines, with President's permission, that public healthism is a matter of caution. I've pointed out this for some time in terms of dealing with people with addiction. I find it very special that those who buy from a service to care for certain features of the Icelandic health care department themselves can weigh the costs and positions of the seminars and then call for the money. So I'd like to ask the minister what his position is on that those who are serving tell the state what money is needed in it without government supervision. We've been trying to get together for a long time on the situation in Iceland, but we haven't reached it yet. If a minister has time, it would be good if he told me about that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir for his input here and a question about the service of drug addicts. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a statement of pride in Icelandic health care. I think all of us can be very proud of Icelandic health care and especially health care professionals who, of course, have borne the heat and burden of taking us through difficult times. Because I said it in my speech earlier, I've always heard the tone here in the Senate Hall that everyone stands by Icelandic health care. With regard to interest groups, we know that we have made a major agreement with the U.S. We have to watch the system as it is right now as part of the medical service because we couldn't handle it with the system as it's built up now, not at once. I have no doubt that there is much knowledge there, and of course we have the arrangement to keep health insurance, which is the contract agreement and buy the service and go over all procedures, all registration procedures, and that everything is legal and then monitors the service, and that we must trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u99	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to follow through, though. It's like it's going through Medical Security, but we've seen it's broken. I'm not questioning that in the United States and other treatments in Iceland, there's a lot of knowledge, it's professional, there's experience. But that's not what I'm pointing out. I'm pointing to it, and we can e.g. Look at Smokeloaf in this context, that it is not natural for necessary health care to be driven by interests or amateur societies and to be completely aside from all other services. I think it would best, and I refer to Smokeyund, that the hospital Vogur was defined as an ehf, as a hospital which the State then made with regard to health care. Then the stakeholders can run other activities, as any other charity does, collect money, and so on. But it is unnatural, and it has been demonstrated, not just in financial matters, but in other matters, that time and again we have seen that the offenders have been in the ministry. I think it's just a matter of responsibility, and that's why I ask a minister, that before we give again and again a lot of money to any health care provider, the first thing is to define the need, define the procedure, and the capital is then assigned on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir for taking up this discussion here. Healing is in general a delicate service. That's where the core is the safety of patients. That's always what we look at. I can only agree with what. A senator because we commit health insurance to the important task of ensuring that all procedures and registrations, incident registrations, all of this is in accordance with the law and that it is highly defined what kind of service we are buying, that the knowledge exists where we are buying. And then there's the other side, because we're counting on a number of other societies - I can name Krysavík, Hivekot, and we know it by testing and the cancer society. All of this is of the good mind and great force of interest in people at the beginning, and that is a lot of things we should get used to here in Iceland, and that may identify us in many ways, that is the power and power of a community that is often an advantage. But health care is special. There's so much safety here, and it's so important. The most valuable thing we have in health care is likely our safety and security. I think the discussion of the past days revealed that this must, of course, be mutual because it is a delicate service. In fact, I say, in terms of the patient's safety, it is also the safety of the employee in providing this care. It's always that time. [[The president calls.]] This is too much discussion to solve in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u101	A respectable president. We stand here to discuss a financial program for the next five years and the vision to appear in it regarding both the income of both the state's funds and the contribution of the state funds, as well as the services expected in this period. We are here talking about the matter of health care, which, of course, is of prime concern to us by all the categories of languages under which we are here. I don't get tired of talking about nursing homes, and they've been named here. We're looking at how we serve older people. Perhaps we can say that we begin a premeditated operation. We'll go back to home nursing. Then comes a nursing home and then a hospital. We now have hospitals full of sicker people who might be in less expensive alternatives. Of course, the most expensive resource is the hospital. The second most expensive resort is a nursing home, followed by a home nurse. Of course, taking sick people out of hospitals and taking them home will not work because they will only lead to catastrian root in the homes where women will do extra work caring for sick relatives, mothers, or fathers. So I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Don't you just have to spit in? Is it not practical to increase the number of nurses as possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He's a Guðbrandur of Einarsson. Hv. The senator concluded his fine talk, and it was all true and right. A senator came in. This is what we must face and deal with. Why don't you just spit in? I'm looking into the development programme for nurses and there are 364 new nurses and 137 who will be improved in this strategy funded during the period of this strategy. It may be, I just don't really have the picture of how many nurses we really need. You're right. A senator explains the problem at the Land Hospital. The McKinsey report says we've got 100% use of amplitude that's gonna blow up the record and we've been left behind in the structure, and there's been a delay, unfortunately. We have even placed money in it. We agreed here a year and a half ago, since 1,350 million to cope with the problem, but we have not been able to make use of the money. Since then, there have been delays in the development of nursing homes here and where and where. A senator knows all of this from his territory. Here's the year city to open in March, there's a delay in it, etc. Either way, if we look at the future, because this report is up to 2040, we'll have to support people with a wide variety of facilities, by rehabilitation, by prophylaxis. We must also use these measures at the same time, but we may need to draw a better picture of how many spaces are closer in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u103	A respectable president. Talking about these large groups of languages in two minutes doesn't talk, and you can't control what you'd like to say has such a lack of time. I wanted to talk to you about something else, but I'm going to follow through on what I've been doing for the past four years. We always see in some reports: Yes, there should be a lot of space, and there should be lots of space. But then nothing happens. V.E.G. A health minister named my home in Smokejanestown, where nothing has happened for three years. It was signed by the contract of 2019, and nothing has happened for three years except that there have been debates between the Commission and the town of Smokenes about how to build it. It was signed that this should be built in a certain place next to it. Then there was an argument over some building that was supposed to cost a lot of money, and no one wanted to pay. We can see that on the Cape too. There's an invitation out, and then we just assess the Commission's offer too loud and then we don't do anything. So this is a problem, there's waiting classes all over the place. Although I can see there's some 360 space divided by five, if I just watch the last term of this government, there's only a distance that's ever worked in this field. As a minister says, your palms need to be spitd. There were projects in Reykjavík and the capital area that could not be accessed into financial programs, including The field was to have 200 spaces, and then we had a Sunnanhund in Kopavogi, where there was to be 50 spaces. It didn't get into the financial program. It was considered necessary to introduce this into a financial program, but it was only rejected. Is it the Ministry of Economics that controls all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine discussion, the Guðbjartur of Einarsson's son. Now, we all know that in these two minutes with this giant party, it's hard. I'm reading a report from a report that just kind of tells me what to do. A senator was tracking here. But I have to defend the Ministry of finance now. They're not guilty of this. We have had good promises to build up, as it were. A senator drew out of his home territory, but there are always some whispers in my ears that need to take the shovel sting. This may be because local elections are coming, but it's just a positive matter. It is only a matter of fact that nursing programs have not followed as originally planned. There's been a lot of activity in many places. And what is to blame? There are many things to be drawn up, as we know from the discussion, but they do not leave us without the responsibility to do better in this and to do it more quickly because there are people waiting, like everyone else. I'm just saying that last year's tournaments were ruined by 6.3 billion that were supposed to be working. We'll just have to do better here. There are a number of nursing homes on the drawing table that solve a lot of problems and that also solve some of the problems. A senator came into the hospital. This is all a domino effect that is always undergoing routine emergency care as there is no provision for patients who have received services. Here, we must certainly do better, and there is much that we can resolve by doing so.
