ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u1	There are: health ministers, university, industrial and innovation ministers and environmental, energy and climate ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u2	A respectable president. Last night the president of the National Hospital told the news that it was not by default that the hospital would do all the work he does today, which is, in fact, according to the surgeon's statement last year's interview. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has he considered these words of the new director of the Land Hospital? Will the assignments he discussed be different or put down? And what are these assignments? We are, for example. Is it beginning to see that for the sake of cancer screening, which has nothing to do with a high-tech and university hospital, the decision that his career predecessor would be reversed? And, of course, I'm asking, "What about these replacements? We know what the situation has been for the last four years. In our opinion, the level of physical control seems highly critical. Everything, literally everything, was to be placed under the authority of the State. Left greens were allowed to solve this problem, but always with the loyal support of Independence Class and Front Class. Let us not forget that a minister is under the cover of Congress. So these health decisions, which governments have supported, have been primarily political. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: He will e.g. Will the tests for cancer go back, and others other than the Land Hospital will be given the job? He will also employ other procedures for health insurance so that they can negotiate with independent health care providers or institutions in the country. We are now following a recent judgment on replacement operations. Medical insurance is not allowed to repay a woman 1,200 bucks. A service she received in the clinical state. But, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, What kind of bullshit is this? It is primarily a political decision. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he promote changes in these matters? Will he take the words of the new director of the Land Hospital, throw them in the air, and change this system that has been built up in these four years? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u3	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for recording this. And, yes, I have not only seen and read these words of the newly appointed director but I have also discussed this with him, and this is the point that we need to consider all the medical services in some context. That context is of utmost importance when it comes to all the actions, screening, or replacement operations, performed. A senator came in here, to define the role of the land hospital which has a very broad role, and according to health care law, first phase, second phase, and third phase procedures. We need to take advantage of all the knowledge available in the system, and the contracts have to be based on the fact that there will be cooperation and interaction in this system of things so that we will use this limited resource, which is our human resources, which is quite possible. But because of him. The senator referred to this interview, which is a limited resource, as shown in this interview. Therefore, all of this is based on our making the best use of it. Hv. A senator is entering replacement operations. All of us have a goal that patients can take action in this country. It's about to work. But to do so, we need to look at all of these together. That job's started, and that conversation's started.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u4	A respectable president. Yes, God lets good things be known, for the restoration has put forward primes to change this, repeatedly, over and over again. They can't be taken care of. And we've also made suggestions in connection with budgets to provide health insurance with additional permission to negotiate with an independent organisation, whether it's clinical or otherwise. These suggestions have always been dropped. It has been repeated to members of the greater part to press the red button and pass our suggestions, but these include primarily improving individual service, services to people who are waiting, services to improve the quality of life of our people in the country while we must give much support to the Land Hospital. I encourage ministers, because there is very open access to health policy now, to take this ball and change the system that has been built up by the left greens with your support in the past four years, and to turn this over a bit, to ensure the main services, and to seek out to those members who can help us have a strong public health system that provides services everywhere, whether in public health institutions or private agencies, powerful private agencies here in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. A senator for filming this case here. I can say that the person here is also well at the bottom of the new government covenant that this government has to work on, and this is one of them. This work is started and it is very important in this context all that the patient himself is in the foreground. We stress the use of all our knowledge and all our systems, and this work is being accomplished. It was already starting to create a complete waiting list, so we can now see what they actually tell us so that there are uniform reasons for how we give the individual the urgent service they once needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u6	A respectable president. I'm in a similar place with a waiting list. We saw in yesterday's news an interview with a young girl who was supposed to wait two months but has been waiting for nearly two years, she is going to Poland for surgery at 1.5 million that she has to pay from her own pocket. Recently, a working man contacted me, had been on a waiting list for several months, and made an effort to lose his job. He asked: " Is it all I can do to borrow, overwhelm, and go to private rooms to get my solution? This is the question at the phone time, and we've been writing, for example. I don't think we'll have to negotiate to make sure that we don't have to send people to two or three times the costier jobs abroad. The waiting lists are prolonged and prolonged. It was to establish a special waiting list office at the Aranesp site. How is that possible? Is that what it's all about? Then we will see: What view does the minister have of having young people wait for vital action, not for months, but for years? I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Has he landed on a waiting list? Does he know what it's like to be on a waiting list? Does he realize what it's like to be on a waiting list and to break a strong opiate drug for months?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of the Ingi Kristinsson query, which turns to some extent to the same things I had a place to say in the previous inquiry here at the moment. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Our goal must be, and so in a government contract, that patients can enjoy service here. There should be complete exceptions to waiting so long that individuals will be able to see the better way to travel abroad during surgery. That's the 90-day waiting period. Therefore, it is so important that we define this waiting period and that it harmonizes logically with what is considered for medical reasons that it is normal to wait. Therefore, we need to have a defined waiting time, we need a central waiting list so that people are not being put on the waiting list more than once, and that the timelines are completely transparent and obvious to all who are working in the system. When it comes to this assignment, I feel relatively anxious. I've been pushing it, both in the Ministry and in conversations with the members who need to get on this project, and the Landice Hospital needs to be with us on that assignment. All of this needs to be played together, depending on the actions we are talking about. As for the replacement operations, I have information about this waiting list, a defined waiting time and a central waiting list, that has been working on for some time, and it hardly goes by the day without me asking about it. I have gathered talks about how this has developed for us and how many have had to go abroad for action, and I can't see in any other way but that we have a relatively fast grasp of this matter in cooperation with all those who have different services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's response. Of course, it is wonderful if you can make sure that people no longer need to stay on the list. But then there is life after the wait list. What then? There will be negotiations with specialists, and there will also be negotiations with physical therapists. The medical cost is now high, and people have to pay from their own pockets so that a large group of poorer and older citizens can no longer afford physical therapy. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: What are we doing in this regard? Will he see to it now, once and for all, to negotiate with a physical therapist? The government has paid attention to having so - called health - care supplies, but it has only transferred this cost to physical therapy, to medical specialists. The cost is totally high, and people can't afford it. What will health - care minister do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question to the rehabilitation factor. Yeah, it's all about making our deal. That process has begun. I have personally been contacted by physical therapists, a member of the physical therapist's team, and I have emphasized that we are dealing with these contracts, not just with specialists, and that we are trying to get a different approach than we have been in this frame of agreement, and in the framework of the budget, because we need to watch these cooperation as a whole and in particular in relation to the whole area of the hospital. All of this needs to work together and rehabilitation and prevention must be a emphasis on all of this. So while we're having this conversation with specialists, we're having a conversation with a physical therapist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u10	Madam President. There were many in the past week when it was the highest. The health minister announced an extension plan for the government during a disease prevention operation. Since then, one adjustment has been made. Last time they dropped from the 1 meter rule last night. It's all become the wonder of it. Dearest. Minister of health, isn't this a good name? Tomorrow, I think it would be a great day to lift all those decisions. Reports are now being made that Iceland runs the train in a decommissioned country that boasts of having the best position in Europe. Meanwhile, companies are fretting about, now at the last, because of this ringy way. Yesterday, I received a message from a professional who described it this way, with the permission of a president: 'I experience that kind of confusion and misunderstanding in people, 'cause the ink on one of the regulations is hardly dried before the next one takes effect. When you put yourself in this real thing, it's just like that, and you don't stand a stone on a rock in the rules. This is the experience of those who are trying to run a business in the country. The government is now finding itself in the position of being driven into a corner, driven from one place after another. V.E.G. Healthcare Minister, you have a position to fix this. Now it's time for the old coach to step forward and put his team in a stand and in a row and stop this nonsense. That's what I'm gonna do, top dog. Healthcare Minister, to ease it just one pen dash?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u11	The senators remind them to direct their words to the president, not directly to the Supreme Court. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u12	V.E.G. President. I thank Senator Ólason for this inquiry. First, I'd like to say that using strong adjectives may not be a solution. I realize it's my job to evaluate the situation evenly. The Law of Diseases calls on me to make a comprehensive assessment of the state at a time. We are in this situation now based on the high - risk assessment by our highly successful experts regarding the species we know to be infected with easier, we can say that the spread of infectious diseases is higher, but, fortunately, less serious health problems are involved. Indeed, we can be optimistic, that is how evolution is today. It is now six days from the date that a new Regulation took effect and from this overall assessment, we take these in steps and winds from this cylinder a limit to our lives. Like what? A senator rightly pointed to them, and last night we lifted the boundaries of sitting events. And so, in this statement, in cooperation with the Covid Pregnancy Department - the pressure has increased there - the decision that I expect us to achieve today, to shorten isolation from seven days to five, because in the risk assessment it is mainly two; it is this rapid spread of infectious diseases and illness. Because of what? A senator entered the workplace at that time is a major illness, so not only in health care, but also in our main need to fit now, it is not too fast to be exposed so that we can handle the situation in many parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u13	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest question here on my second question. Health Minister for his dealings with the largest administration party, the Independence Party. Here later today, a bill will be measured to correct the conversion of disease protection laws, such as an excellent proposal but will go too far in my opinion. Still, it's already in place. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that this is the largest member of the board of directors to recommend this proposal, all non - secretaryly members are: Did the health minister reject this quest in the early stages? Because it is amazing if the largest group of directors in its entire administration should suggest a change of procedure when this is, of course, a thing that should be discussed between the parties and the above recommendations. Was this arrangement discussed between the ruling parties and rejected by a health minister? Otherwise, this bill would not have to be submitted, for it is certainly not the arrangement that we have had in these past few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question, which turns to the pedophilal law and turns to the possible primary signs submitted by members of the council. Of course, members of the United States have a problem. A senator knows, all authority to offer just the bills they want. I can't quite figure it out -- what? A senator may be able to form the question more clearly. The fact is, there have been reports of a statement that the prime minister for a new overall set of laws. That work has been done. That bill is made up of a group of people who had started before my office and are now in a traditional consultation process. There's a lot of things that call these bills a little bit different. A senator refers to him. But now it seems to me that there are a lot of things in these new billing areas that are just a significant improvement in this disease-shaped environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u15	Madam President. Since the regulations on short - term electrical sales were set in 2019, tens of thousands of homes and companies have been transferred into business to a single company in a competitive market and without having anything to say. As reported in the media, these consumers were made to pay up to 75% higher power prices than commercial customers, thus charging the highest electricity prices in Iceland. In this way, homes and businesses have been yoked under the cover of a government rule. I expect the highest. The Minister of Energy has been paying close attention to this case. My question to the minister is not complicated, it is this: Is it consistent with his idea of professional equality and competitive competition when governments take thousands of customers to one company in a competitive market, thus providing one company with a prelude over another party on the market? Tells you the highest. A minister of the company's responsibility and responsibilities to consumers is pre-computed to the fact that this is done without any obligation to the consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u16	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think the short answer to this inquiry is simply that the regulations presented there were certainly not of evil nature. On the other hand, it lies quite ahead, out of the circumstances of which it might be. A senator says we're looking into these matters. Of course, what we want is that homes in our country receive both safe and healthy energy at the best possible cost. That's the goal. However, it's like a beard. A senator knows, and he mentions here, one case, and there are other issues that have truly been prominent, and I spoke very specifically at the point. This morning's job committee, which is the electricity issue, all because of the position that has come up. We're now doing things we shouldn't do, and we're moving back on our climate goals, i.e. burning oil to feed their homes in the land with electricity. But that's why. Similarly, a senator referred to another matter not only that we have our eyes on but also that of considering the experience of the present arrangement and how we can adapt it. I just want to thank you. A senator for bringing these things to the attention because it is very important that we try to do so. There will be a lot to do, a respectable president, in electrical matters in the next few months and misses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u17	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Minister will have administrative and monitoring authority on all energy administrations. It sounds to me that, although he may not have said it entirely out of respect for his prehuman existence in office, he agrees with me that this absolutely unacceptable rule of action does not harmonize with the views of commercial equalism, active competition, and consumer protection. Then, of course, you must ask how it works. Minister's going to take action. In the previous issue -- no, I can't get out on it, there's so little time left, but I may be allowed to ask, "How does a Minister care to react to two decisions that have failed in which the Power Commission's Commission of Power decided to fail the decision of the Power Agency's selection of power trades for long-term benefits?" [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What will a minister do, and when?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u18	A respectable president. Me and what. A senator is in the same position when we consider this important discussion, i.e. that the time is short, that's up. A case is big, however, and to me it's just the case. This is a matter that we might have had to pay more attention to, and then I'm just referring to the council in general. I haven't made any comparisons, but it seems to me that in the past two weeks we've been discussing more important matters than we've been doing for a very long time. I'm not gonna tell you how long that is. And, fortunately, I will be waiting here at the council for a special discussion on the electronics. I'm not going to be here every minute to talk me out about complicated issues, but I'm going to have a clear goal. The aim is to make sure that Icelandic and Icelandic companies, especially smaller companies, have access to good environmental energy. That's what we're working on. A senator referred to this. He called attention to one aspect, but there are many other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u19	President. We are faced with a problem, a double problem. It is another present problem, and in the near future. In the near future, there is a lack of energy, as the director of national activation puts it. The closeness of that future is relatively uncertain. We know that from the visual images that have been developed, it takes more energy for energy to change. There's nothing surprising about that. But today's the problem is what I want to ask the highest. Minister on, this message has to be burned oil, like the highest. A minister expressed it in opposition to ancient times in unsubstantiated inquiries, burning oil to provide power for homes in the country. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Minister and quote here into the third energy package, but one of the best articles there and one of the reasons that it's just a very good package is this, with the permission of the president: The Member States shall ensure that clients who buy household use and, as the Member States consider to be the right, small companies, have the right to deliver a certain amount of electrical energy for a price that is clearly comparable, transparent and fair. There are two things there, preferably, certain quality and fairness. I wonder: If the messages we receive in the media are that we need to burn oil to provide electricity for homes, is it of the quality that governments believe acceptable? And is it reasonable when it is being said at the same time that this will result in a higher cost of household energy in general? If not, what are we going to do about it now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm so glad this is recording here. Me and what. A senator discussed these matters precisely on the job board this morning, but, of course, it's just a committee, and it's desirable that we discuss this at the council and that this message is coming along. Like I went to sleep. This morning's employment committee, it's been top priority since I took over as a minister. What we immediately did was to set up a team to examine especially electrical security with the goals we needed. A senator pointed to the point, for it is very important that governments have the authority to achieve their goals. A senator referred to him. If something is missing, because certain measures have been taken by the Power Institute, as I went to the wind. This morning's committee, which has never been done before, is very important that we have it in our hands. This is one of the things being viewed as fast as possible. But whatever we've learned, whether we like it or not, I'm also referring to a question that I just received here, to the Regulation environment, and it's all human works, that it makes a certain motive, and if it's wrong, then we need to change the rules. Then, of course, the major goal is this big project. That is why I immediately set off my green bookwork in order to draw out the position we are in now because the projects that lie ahead of us are huge. The big thing about this is that we're going to make a lot of progress in climate. We have high goals, and it is important that we reach them. And it's important that we achieve so that everyone can enjoy the energy exchange, especially the homes and companies, and then I'm especially looking to the little companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u21	President. The energy exchange and that energy problem are something we definitely need to work on right now and the next decade at least. But I'm talking about the current problem. As I understand the discussion here, not really a lack of energy now. This lack is a shortage of cheaper energy that a particular company or rural society makes a contract: we are going to buy less energy than by the terms of which it could be impaired if there is no other energy that has always been safe but not as safe now as it may be when a bad year of water or something like that. So it is not a problem to deliver energy if people just pay the usual price but not the lower price for force. Is it not possible to prevent the burning of oil? And if that's possible, why don't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u22	A respectable president. It would be very good if it were just for a bad year of water. You see, that would minimize the problem very much. But it's not just that, because, fortunately, and that's good, the demand for green energy is growing. Question question. The senator is like, " Can't something be done and can't be done? ' If there is anything you can do, it will be done. We're in a hurry. Energy agencies have directed recommendations that it has never done before, on 25 January, for land induction, due to the current sales process on total electricity output due to overexploitation, only to re-selve the energy for sales agents involved in public, home, and company services. That was one of the things people did about the situation today. As I mentioned, it's top priority. I didn't go through all the bills I'm putting out here right now because of these matters, exactly because of this big project. It is working as fast as possible, but the nature of the situation in accordance with the laws and regulations of men, governments, ministers, members of the organisation. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, if there is a lack of authority, we will take the initiative to change it, and I expect a good cooperation with the council on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u23	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to the highest degree. child secretary on the effects of Covid-19 restrictions on children. I draw attention to the fact that the discussion is not about the effects of the virus but about how governments operate on children over the past two years. For almost two years, they have suffered limited suffering from school disorders, sports and leisure activities, and isolation from friends and family members. They have been locked up, prevented the use of fertilization, and repeatedly forced into samples. Some have even been locked up for weeks or months. Children have been anxious and scared for two years, and that is a long time in children's lives. Certainly, the Icelandic government is to be commended for the firmness of school activities, at least to the highest degree. Similarly, a child - care minister is to be commended for upholding child - care perspectives and for the need for school, especially for children in a more delicate position, when pressured to close primary schools. Even so, I feel safe to say that the pressures that have been put on the children during the epidemic are very serious. In recent years, there were limits to the situation, and hopes are in place to continue in that direction. Finally, sample - carrying isolation and physical intervention were reduced. While it is likely to be a thank - you factor, it is important to recognize that a different approach, e.g. they were just taking steps that the countries around us a long time ago. Iceland had long had a unique position on the environment of children in connection with school exposure. For the past two years, children have tolerated these actions because of a disease that all the information we have told us is of little risk, at least not more risk than from some other infections. That's why, a respectable president, I ask the highest. Children's Ministers to see if the effects of these actions on children have been specifically examined and, where possible, at the highest level. A minister has called attention to the status of children living under sensitive circumstances, whether the effect on them has been specifically examined. What we already know about this long period of the past two years is that there was a large increase in reports of child - protection of violence and child neglect. The terrible fact is that the reports of sexual violence against children increased by a total of 40% between 2020 and 2021. These are striking numbers. It is our community responsibility to protect those who are sensitive, and children are truly a delicate group. The figures I mentioned here indicate that we have failed the most vulnerable group of society. Children who have been isolated from harmful situations at home will never face benefits. Among the rules recently modified after less than two years of work were the rules for child sampling, which had then made comments on the implementation of children's emissaries. It was hard to take children in long rows of specimens, and their weeping was tragic when a sample was taken to release them from the convalescents. It is therefore urgent to ask the highest question. The minister of child care whether the effects of the child's repeated specimens in unacceptable situations have been evaluated. Government officials have regularly wondered, " What is the legitimate cost of sacrifice when it comes to life and illness caused by Covid-19? ' However, now two years later, we have to face up to the cost of government treatment. A respectable president. When it comes to the affairs of children, the law says that a child should always take first priority. There's nothing else to drumming it up. So I finally direct them questions to the highest level. Children's secretary of the matter, whether or not the best interests of children have always been guided by decision-making measures for disease prevention and the average performance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u24	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for taking up this case here in the Hall of Congress. It is extremely important that the situation is examined from this point of view, not only through the epidemic but also when the recent epidemic is completed, which will hopefully be the case. It is true that since the virus hit the country, there have been considerable limitations in modern society. Various disease prevention measures have been used, as the senator traced, and all of us are aware of this hall. This has always been done with the safety and well - being of students, teachers, and others. I think that everybody agreed on the time when the epidemic was at the highest level here that it would have been very irresponsible not to resort to the preventative measures taken in Icelandic society. But all of this has been done to reduce the impact on children and other groups. It has been sought to be moderate, since the senator specifically asks for it. However, there have also been many measures to ensure the position of sensitive groups of children, and we have also made extensive consultation with all those in one or another who have been in contact with children in Icelandic society and are regularly monitoring this. Since then, there have been many procedures, including changes in alcohol - control arrangements, and so forth. As I said earlier, there have been groups of consultations and monitoring teams in education, hobbies, welfare, throughout the pandemic. At the same time, the welfare watch, carried out with the representatives of all those interested in the welfare of the Icelandic community, has made these issues very regular. Because the senator also specifically asks whether a special assessment of the impact of screening children has been conducted, it is not. However, it is important that all dimensions of the effect of Covid-19 on Icelandic society, not just over this time period, be examined, examined, evaluated and evaluated for the new and broad range of ways to protect the well - being of children permanently. It is true that the effect on children in the days of the crowning virus could well be said to have been greater and longer than that of any other child. It was considered important to keep elementary schools open to ensure that children's studies and activities have been most successful since the outbreak. We have been able to keep schools open more than many countries we compare with. However, school activities have been impaired, varying in number at any given time. The colleges were temporarily closed up, and then they took the full course of study by telecommunications. A vacation home, where organized work is available for the youngest children in elementary school, was largely open, while the epidemic's impact on activities in order to form social centers was considerable. Let's not belittle this. There are very many analyses, reports, work and monitoring that have been carried out since the outbreak of the epidemic that different people have won. A great deal of information has been provided by the Ministry of Education and the Union of Iceland. A study of high school education and the well - being of high school students has been conducted. There have been various studies, including on the effects of Covid-19 and the experience of social and leisure centres directors. Studies have been conducted by National Sciences University of Iceland, studies at music schools, attendance at music studies during the time of an epidemic, a study of education and home in the Covid-19 era, and a vision of children in the Korean virus and its effects. That's the way you keep counting. All of this has moved from work we've been working together with what we've been dealing with the virus day by day. However, it is important at this time when the end of the treatment strategy is in place that we do not forget this important group of people who are children and look to what action to take. It was a pandemic. These are natural disasters that have gone before the youngest generations of the land, and in this regard we need to consider: How do we view the restoration? How will we make up for this time in the lives of children, both as well as for the welfare and social status of the senator, as well as for the result of study? We have already begun a conversation with key stakeholders how we view such a restoration program. It's part of going out of a disaster situation like this and being working with public defences and other sources. I expect a good cooperation with both of them. A senator at the General Assembly of the Icelanders for that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u25	Madam President. This is an important talk about the epidemic's pressures on children, but I'm going to look a little further and watch children in poorer countries in a pandemic. A dark UNICEF report suggests that Covid-19 has undermined decades of progress in behalf of children's rights. As a result, there is an increase in poverty in children and reduced access to education. As a result, fewer children in developing countries have been vaccinated against other serious diseases. It also reduces their bioavailability as a result of study. Covid-19 has thus increased not only inequities within countries but also between richer and poor nations. The global epidemic, however, shows that earth's interests are united, and we are one of the world's families. For people around the world, vaccinations have been opened up in difficult times. We Icelanders and I are very well aware of the positive effects of vaccination here, and now are the prerequisite for the reduction we are facing. Of course, the access of all vaccines should be of vital importance to the state of the world, even in our part of the world, to understand the benefit of vaccination. Sadly, though, experience has shown that each Kingdom has been primarily concerned about itself. It has affected poorer countries, especially children there. This, of course, will not only increase the risk that this epidemic will delay. Rather, it will increase in balance between Western and poorer countries. You see, no matter where they live, all of us are responsible for all children. This should be kept in mind by the government, especially child - care minister, when considering Iceland's contribution to development cooperation, which is nearly half of what the United Nations recommends and that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir and Minister for this discussion. I ask myself, " How does this affect children? ' I go back to my season between Christmas and New Year, when I received this crown virus and had to line up on the freezing and northern highway of Southland. An hour waiting. I found a person who had waited there for an hour and a half, two hours. In front of me were children, behind me were children, sick children, crying children, children on whom parents were trying to hold. Where was the welfare watch mentioned by the minister? When ten minutes and 15 minutes remained before I got into the warmth, a party came and invited me to go ahead. I asked him why he was inviting me right away, why he wouldn't take the children. Then he began to herd the children, and the children were allowed to go in front. I asked myself, " Why didn't the children have special access? ' I started asking myself that because I found out in my next session so that I could enter Fosg in a car, could sit in the hot car, and even wait for a little less than this hour and get a sample through the window in the car. Why are children not invited to do this? Where's the welfare department? And I ask, has it been like this for two years? Do you need disabled children, or do you even try to be in a wheelchair in line to get a sample? Why did those children not yet have a special place? Where was the welfare watch?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to this case and the highest. Minister for participation in this conversation, which is very important. But we tend to, and perhaps the nature of the matter, because we love all the people who are going to inherit the land and the future in the children, to look to the things that are better, and we are certainly meant to do and watch and observe them. But I'd just like to briefly come up with that it's natural admiration, and I think all of us in this room can join together on that, observing the responses of the staff of schools at all levels; the music schools, the social activities, the sports, how they react to these completely unprecedented circumstances. We are grateful to the medical staff, but we are just as grateful to the school system for everything and the amazing reaction to children that is important. We must not lose our eyes on the ball when it comes to things that are better off and try to block the well before bad happens. But I think it would also be interesting to consider that there are also signs that some things have brought us forward in spite of the circumstances. There is an increasing technical lock, there is an increasing combination - which also has negative consequences, we know, and we need to map it better. But there's an increasing technical lock, an increasing presence, a slower turn of society, I reiterate it, and a conversation between individuals. We can look at them, though, in a positive way that we may not necessarily expect to get out of this situation all but also important to map and learn from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u28	President. The health of young people in Europe has deteriorated dramatically because of social limitations in the epidemic. It is estimated that some two thirds of young people are at risk of becoming depressed. These findings conflict with our country's experience with the collapse, but the main difference seems to be that the effects of the government's response in today's epidemic are particularly devastating to our young people. A whole generation of high school students have missed two years of important time to promote social skills and relationships. This also applies to college students, two years they never get back. Having good social skills as a child and youth can have a profound effect on healthy development, mental, and physical. Socialism is important for a person to develop a relationship with others. We know that healthy relationships support improved mental health. It reduces risk behavior and addiction. According to the Children's Agent Salvör Nordal, there has been a worsening in the condition of basic schoolchildren in this country as the epidemic has passed. The reports for child protection have been increased, and there are far more serious requests to help the Red Cross than they have been. Children and young people themselves talk about the lack of access to psychologists and other urgent services. President. We must respond. To meet the needs of young ones, we must take up the full - time ministry. A government that impairs the quality of life of an entire generation has a legal and moral obligation to take immediate major action to reduce the damage it has done to young people. It'll get to the top. The Minister of Child Affairs does not suggest that the effect of Covid-19 needs to be examined and that we need to react and all of this - how? Will research be funded? Where's the plan of action? What will the minister and the government do? Don't just bring a statement of will. We need action immediately. [[The president calls.]] This is something that should have started in a career a long time ago. [[The president calls.]] We need to get counter measures, and I want some answers from the Children's Department on what he's going to do, not just what he wants to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u29	Madam President. Two years is a long time in the lives of young people, a time that shapes their well - being and future, a shaper of skills and ability to cope with future challenges. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, and the highest. Minister for coming to the conversation. As a result, challenges were unprecedented at the beginning of the Covid time, and time will reveal the consequences of economic and commercial abuses. The time will also have to show the effect of countermarital action there. But the situation is different and more complicated when it comes to young people of this land. We know how social isolation affects children and adolescents during formative years, and we know that their study through a computer can never achieve the same goals as we have known. We know that the games of young people and social and entertainment play a far greater role in the development of people than was previously thought. It remains to see how this situation has affected a student career, a student's success, and even a young person's leaving from school. We need data, and we need action to handle it. Will this, e.g. affect the percentage of young people who continue to study after high school? Will this affect the way they show up until the game? What will we do to cope? Most important, we know the terrible effects of domestic violence, when the home is not the sanctuary it is supposed to be. There we know that insulation by preventative measures made things worse for far too many. All of this we know. The question is, How will we respond? These are the answers I call for from the Ministry of Education and Children and other advisers who in one way or another have these lawsuits under their new conferences. What can be least said is that any of these items, one of these urgent solutions, fall between a ship and a dock in the Council of Government. [[The president calls.]] That cable cannot affect how well and quickly we can handle this project. [[The president calls.]] And misspelled funds, we'll at least know what's in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u30	Madam President. I want to thank you for this important discussion here. For a long time, it has been obvious that the groups that may be the worst out of government treatments are those that are at least threatened by the current virus. It has been quite tragic to see how easy it would have been for governments to place limits on children and young people's lives far more opposed than was needed. We watch now that teenagers are graduating with student's exams without ever having received a whole winter of normal school activities, normal social life with all that happens there. But I have to come in and add a question as far as possible. paritaprevir By permission of the president, Einarsdóttir Mist Einarsdótt in her speech: There was a large increase in reports of child - protection of violence and neglect in children. The terrible fact is that the reports of sexual violence against children increased by a total of 40% between 2020 and 2021. It's time to go to the top. At the end of this discussion, a minister must, in effect, inform the United States of the way in which this information has been handled, as it is striking, of course. V.E.G. A minister here listed the various studies that have been conducted by various institutions and companies, but it was not quite as clear how they responded to the assessment. But this point, a 40% increase in reports of sexual violence against children, I want to ask the highest level. Minister what has been done about that, exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for opening up this discussion here today. She's certainly needed in society and at this point, too. The government early in this epidemic decision to try hard to protect children from barriers, but the nature of the situation was not always successful. Children were e.g. ill - spared by repeated specimens considered to be burdensome intervention in a child's life, many children being diseased even for weeks in isolation from friends, family, and normal lives. There is just one of the most secondary consequences of my life - threatening measures. It calls all warning bells, as mentioned in the above talk, that the number of reports on child fractures, just fractures, in the Covid years, increased by less than 17%, and more than 50% in the reports of child abuse in two years. This situation, Madam President, is completely unacceptable, this needs to be addressed. I'm calling for the highest. Secretary of education and child care will react to this. Researchers around the world are investigating the effects of disease prevention on the development of infants, but many are concerned about isolation from other members of the extended family, other infants, and that pressures on parents because of the pandemic may affect the social development of babies, even motor and neurological development. So it will be interesting to see what the results will be and how they will be dealt with. I think it's our primary duty here to take care of our children and to hold young people. We must look to it on the way out of Covid with the goal of always doing what is best for our children. We do this by getting society to normal as soon as possible without limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u32	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a advocate, as well as Minister of Education and Children, Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason, for a good discussion here at the Senate Hall today. Indeed, the worldwide epidemic has had a far - reaching effect on our children and young ones. It is my opinion that it is important to put this group in particular, as has been done during the epidemic, but we need to get even closer to the earth. We need to deal with the aftereffects that we all know will come. Research shows a negative impact on the spiritual health of students, and it is only possible that we will have to deal with this in the years ahead. At the beginning of the epidemic, problems arose. It is my opinion that governments and, indeed, society have succeeded in the light of circumstances, especially in comparison with other countries. As the former head of a educational agency, I am impressed by the way some teachers and employees of school were able to keep professional schooling going in the light of oppressive social action. Government policies in this country have been based on the best available science, but also criticism, conversation, caution, and experience that have truly been built up over time. I'm particularly worried about our high school students. High school is not only important for education but also the time when young people experience a wide variety of social life, which has, unfortunately, been largely low in the epidemic. I trust that we will continue to face the negative effects the pandemic has caused by failure, putting the support of our children and young ones in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u33	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Senator Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for the discussion. The leading school years are a great formative year in young people's lives, and this is not often the case with future friendships. We learn about ourselves, grow up, and find ways to the future. I would like to state that I was, and I am still saying that the reduction of high school was just because of this vital aspect in those years. But there is another discussion and need, and I hope we can take it at some point in this chamber. Madam President. Sadly, the government was completely asleep in regard to responses to the health and development of young people in a pandemic today for over two years. It is only natural that this was the case at the beginning of a pandemic, but after two years, little is reported. At the beginning of the epidemic, work should have started with the head of education in creating a groundwork for socializing vital to the study. Madam President. In spring, youths from high school who have got one dance, busball in the fall of 2019, and other meetings not. All other social activities and social events have likewise been affected, end - time teaching in the form of telecommunications. Why don't we go to the top? A minister would choose and give the graduate schools permission to give students one more year of his choice to make up for this lost time. Then, those whom they would like to enjoy improved knowledge in various fields, languages, sciences, social articles, arts, and most important aspects of life could improve their social development during this year, which is especially important to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u34	A respectable president. This has been a good discussion here, but the question is, Will we learn from it? I fear that there would not be anything I said before, that at the end of this period, children would still have been on fire for an hour after entering a sample. But then we also have children who were in solitary confinement for up to two months. I think it's been evaluated, two months. How many children did they spend so long in solitary confinement? How did this affect them? Is it being charted, researched? I don't think so. I'm afraid we'll forget it somehow. If we watch climate and our children, we will have created tremendous fears in our young people, who are causing them distress, depression, feelings of distress. And I'm afraid we'll make exactly the same thing about Covid-19. To prevent that from happening, we must first map what went wrong and what was done correctly. In education systems, for example, what's better than right now to have a conversation with a teacher? They should be able to map what was done right and what was missing. The table is to be called now all those who have come to the well - being of children and who have made them sit down and discuss matters. Let's get started now because we're going to figure out that it's not the last virus that comes. This isn't the last time we get into this situation. The question is, Are we ready for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u35	A respectable president. Mental health occurs as a child, about half of mental disorders appear before they are 15. Clearly, then, long - term damage to the individual's function and quality of life is shaped to a large extent at the beginning of his life. The effects of the epidemic on the mental health of young people to the short and long term are a challenge that we have faced in many ways since the beginning. Early on, it was the government's focus to try to protect the children by keeping school, sports, and leisure activities as normal, like the highest level. Minister mentioned above. As noted, research has suggested that children and young people will be affected by a pandemic for many years. So it should be clear to all of us that uncertainty, isolation, and, in many cases, anxiety that have followed the youngest generation through the epidemic will not disappear overnight when all control limits are lifted. Madam President. I will not belittle what has been mentioned about the importance of the control limits, especially those who touch children and young people, to be lifted as soon as possible. All I ask for is to put things in perspective too, that we begin to develop the support that will be needed to take on the children who face the spiritual and social challenges of the epidemic. I would especially like to mention a school system, which, yes, is the scene where all children are gathered every day. On the way out of the epidemic, we need to develop schools to promote the spiritual, physical, and social health of students. I hope to the highest. The education and child - care minister will try to see that the restoration after the epidemic is more important than the growth of mental health and mental - health services within the school system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u36	Madam President. During a few weeks ago, in discussions about the activities of the council, I became an inaction of the government in behalf of children who are abused at home or who witness my talk. Violence against children is indeed a very serious issue, but it is no less serious and has serious and lasting consequences for children to witness violence, especially when it comes to violence or against someone the child has learned to protect himself in life. It is terrible for a child to see his protector resort to violence or to see a person whom the child is supported and whose life is cut short by violence, humiliation, and defenselessity. People are more likely to resort to violence when under pressure. Fluctuation and instability in daily life, prolonged isolation, and separation from society, and the above, are a source of great uncertainty as to what the future holds. So no Nostradamus needed to ensure that domestic violence would increase under the circumstances of a pandemic crown virus. Even before the pandemic season and the government took toll the requirements for meeting and other activities in the daily lives of people, our world was all in great need for domestic violence. This was even true of the direct victims of violence, especially women and children, who suffered outright violence on the part of someone close to them. Even fewer resources were available and still exist for children who witness violence, which is no less damaging to their health, well - being, and future. So I want to challenge the highest. Governments to seek all ways to ensure that children living in violence receive the help and support they need and to find ways to support the protective parents of this country so that violence can cease.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u37	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, for bringing up the subject, and for doing this discussion with the highest degree. Minister of child care. It's been a great discussion, it's a good thing to listen to this and accept. I may, as more members of the council have done, be talking about my high school students, the teenagers. Because we often focus on their study, I pondered the effects of these limitations on social life and communication, what they really are. We don't have to go so far into our mind as to remember what the years back then were fun, not just out of school and school careers, but only those great maturity and social skills we took by discovering life in a new way with our schoolmates, creating new relationships, working social life, participating in public speaking, debate, or what it is. This is truly an invaluable time. That part of those years is as invaluable as the study itself. The problem with this whole problem is that the consequences of Covid's illness are quite clear. The consequences of doing so can be said, limitations, and consequences of limitations, as clearly as we can be seen and even until many years later. I'm gonna let me ask you the highest. A minister may now feel that we are miscalculationing these interests now when the consequences of the disease itself are not so serious as they were first in the pandemic. I also wondered: Could the government have gone further to some form of open communication and conversation with the subgroups under which they had to suffer, not just to study, but to social life, and only to normal, wholesome relationships, mature relations with peers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u38	Madam President. Here in my second speech with this discussion, I would like to include only the immunizations of children, which were here a considerable discussion a few weeks ago and a great emphasis on driving them out and implementing that policy. It was quite surprising. At a meeting of a health - care committee, a health minister at the time said that the introduction of these vaccinations was not a matter of special importance. It reminds me that it was on Thursday, but it started with the vaccination on a Monday. So somehow this continued on autopilot. But I'd like to ask the highest. The minister's attitude is that this is as pressure as it is in the case of children's vaccinations as far as older groups are concerned. It is totally in the discussion that the goal of the vaccination of five-year-old children was to protect older groups, other groups than those vaccinated. I'd like to ask the highest. Children's Minister of Affairs how this plays with what the 2nd paragraph says. 1st par. child - law, so to speak, by permission of the president: The best for a child must always take first priority when making decisions on the subject. It seems that this article of child law does not allow any room for an operation performed by those there to protect other groups. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of child - care matters how this decision was reasoned at the government table in view of the universal issue of the welfare of children. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank all those who have participated in this good and needy discussion, the highest. Minister of child care and what. members of the council who joined us. I stopped for a moment at the highest. Ministers that everything has been done to protect the interests of children and to keep them balanced. That's when I think of a wide epidemic of children all this time. Indeed, much longer action against children and more than we thought, but much more so in comparison with neighboring countries, even though it has been repeatedly pointed out. Sadly, over two years the impact of repeated screening on children has not been observed and evaluated. This is one of the main concerns of young children and me and my parents, and I urge this to be considered in particular. It's a good thing to hear of the best plan. Minister for a reenactment plan that has particular attention to children. Just as we've seen it, we've seen it at the height. When pressured to close school, the minister of child - care ministers stood firm, and I am sure that he will put special emphasis on children in the afterlife so that at least we can learn a lesson from the situation. A respectable president. In the end, the greatest harm for children of Covid has been due to the procedures discussed here today. It is our duty as a community to protect our children from what threatens their lives and health. That's where Covid-19 is off the list. So I'm afraid that we have responded to our priorities in these difficult times, that we need to recognize that this area was cut back, that, in time, it will be difficult to explain to the Korean children the decisions that judged the number of them repeatedly to disease infection, isolation, and intimidation to protect others other people than they themselves, even after society was fully vaccinated to prevent serious illness from being infected. I finally have the highest hopes. Secretary of the children's affairs that this period is finally over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion and join the people who have spoken here, and I've loved it. It is so that when we look at this time, because it was made evident here that there had not been any action during the period and that I specifically covered it in my case - because it was asked specifically if the interests of children had been assessed through this period - that there have been a very large number of measures. Every action program or request that has entered the council has been social action, and children have often been involved. For the first time, the Kingdom stepped in to support the leisure activities of children from income - rich homes. We made a special mental - health program, 600 million, who were approved for the last spring's budget and were particularly involved in supporting low - threshold measures. This was done in a wide variety of social activities, especially for disabled children, in the summer work of disabled children. It was set up for a child's leisure time in a delicate position just because of the pandemic. Because people were thinking about child protection, there was an increase in reports to child protection in Iceland. That was even. Because we made a special effort to encourage the announcements to be made easier by the cooperate of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Many of the countries in which we compare ourselves with those that were more closed had fewer reports for child protection. In some cases, we have managed to take these matters, including those. In order to handle these matters, you need to give financial support to a children's house. But the main thing is that we have reached much of our normal routine, keep schools open, pursue more activities, and do many of our neighboring countries. At the same time, I say, and agree with those who have spoken here, that this has a great impact on children, and therefore we need to continue on the basis that we have done in this epidemic but look to how we go into the restoration with the children's and young people's affairs under control. There we will take all the tips presented in this hall with this discussion into that work. I want to thank you for the discussion. It is important, and I hope that I can cooperate with the Parliament on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u41	V.E.G. President. I want to come up here and thank you. well-being committee for good work. This was shown in 2nd. that time had been faster than mentioned in general. It is evident, therefore, that this work has been done in a much better way than we often do, and thanks to that, I'd like to thank you. The welfare committee. This bill may not be giving up much. Part of it is induction and is being separated from human medicinal products. This involves the well - being of animals and, at the same time, wholesome food. Here, too, an important step is being taken to promote the development of antibacterial resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u42	V.E.G. President. Here I have a report on the government's extraction plan. That decision was presented on January 28 of the past. When the decision was made to attack, approximately two weeks from the hardened limit. Predictions available at the time for an increase in the number of patients in the hospital had not been established, although the number of infections was in line with predictions or were more than predicted, when action was under operation on January 14. At that time, there had been a range of 40,445 patients in the hospital with Covid and at the time of most of 47, if I remember correctly, and had increased rapidly. But then they slowly shrunk down and were 35 on January 28 C.E. when we announced that plan. The decision to make a deal that went into force on January 29th, was based on a memo and the risk assessment by a psychiatrist, dated January 26. It showed that the number of infections had been relatively stable with about 1,300 analysed daily, that is, rolling a seven - day average of seven days, with two days prior to that to 1,600. Patients had experienced a reduction in the number of serious illness, however, patients had an increase in mild Covid infection and had other problems proposed. The challenge of the health system is to maintain function with a considerable number of infected patients in hospitals, but not many serious, and at the same time with a number of employees from work, above what we watch on a standard year trip, due to Covid-19. At that time, there were about 200 workers in the Hospital in solitary confinement. A similar challenge was faced by other health institutions and other services in many parts of the community, and I present here special social services. It was expected that by means of reduction in the number of people with community infections would increase temporarily, which could increase both the number of people who are seriously ill, because the spread is high even though the proportion of hospitalisations is much lower, and that an emergency might arise in many areas of work requiring specific resources and companies would need to be prepared for some time with reduced workforce. For this reason, the evaluation by a psychiatrist was that governments would have to adjust within reasonable limits so that the spread of the crown virus would not be out of control with an increase in social illness and its consequences, serious illnesses, and a disorder of various types of occupations in the country. The main element was a disinfectant's proposal followed by the deviation that a new Regulation will take effect at midnight on the date it was announced, but not wait for its local Regulation to take effect. At that time, the start period of restaurants was extended by two hours instead of one hour, and the maximum number of stores was set 500, and this was done in line with the number of occasions. The time of the Regulation was set for three weeks, to February 24th, but decided to re-evaluate the situation on a regular basis, I reiterate it. When we say we reevaluate the situation, it is done every day. This has been a bit of a turning point now to play a wise delinquency rather than be looking to limitations. Thus, as we look at the treatment laws and the importance of looking to an average and equalitude, this has become a bit of a turning point. Yesterday, for instance, the value of the local rules fell on sitting events. Of course, this will be done in full consultation with the competent authorities. I'm expecting that we can, in order to deal with this disorder that's going on because the symptoms are very different in onset and duration of different periods, shortened isolation from seven days to five days. This will help, just like the week when we were relieved of the decompression program. On January 26, we have a note of this mass reduction plan in which the next on February 24 is expected, but as I say, we do it sooner. There are a number of factors that are working with us and that indicate that it will be safe on the basis of disease control. In the middle of March, there will be a full access to the study, and I'd like to say that every day this conversation must take place, both in health facilities and in other activities. The U.S. Marshal's Department of Defense has a good overview of where the threat limits are concerned with the disorder and even stop, i.e. how many may range to support the operation. This conversation is stable and the situation is being assessed constantly. In this way, the government will have a strategy to guide, but it will evaluate the situation evenly and then add more and more faster if possible and on the basis of applied measures. It's been done, as I've been doing here, in a few cases, and we called it in accordance with this constant assessment after the second risk assessment, a formal risk assessment by a psychiatrist, and it was received yesterday by health care minister. This health threat is now produced by Covid-19. It is a twofold serious illness for individuals in need of health care because of the high spread of infectious diseases and the presence of remote workers from various key strains due to disease caused by Covid, both in health care and other important structures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u43	Madam President. Þórdís Hulda Tómasdóttir, director of the nursing area of Eirar, Shilol, and Hamra, said that during the days published on the website, the most difficult work was to lose staff in isolation and infection. The population is given some poor service because homes are prepared almost every watch, staff are under siege, or their children are in isolation. There is great pressure on all fronts, on caring, on business and maintenance. She said that this situation was very difficult. Like other workplaces, nursing homes have new warrants for the environment and have invited three-vaccinated employees to work while they are under siege. They have to wear a mask of face at all times, have a toilet and coffee position, and reduce contact with others as much as possible. Even if this situation is better than the environment, it adds stress to the staff. Others have expressed concern that nurses and other care professionals, such as those who are disabled, are severely impaired because workers are infected by Covid and are unable to work. So I want to ask the highest. Health Minister: Is this situation awaked enough? And if a dangerous situation arises, is there an organization that is being worked out so that it is possible to maintain service to people who cannot live without it or who need to be in distress if the ministry is temporarily lacking? V.E.G. Ministers mentioned that the system and the public defences were concerned about this position, but I would like to ask: Is this situation awake enough, and can we be sure that measures will be taken in case of danger?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u44	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for coming into this show. This is the core risk assessment proposed by the head of health care professionals, where the combination says that high levels of transmission will be considered to be a threat to the public health of the country, particularly due to the impairment of the activities of various companies, and therefore we believe that all extractions will be carried out with several safe steps and on the basis of control and control of the situation. This fight has only changed with this weaker than highly contagious species. So it's coming up, like before. A senator came in and referred to medical staff, who were infected in nursing homes. There is also more about the illness of employees than on a normal annual trip. This applies to a wide range of functions, and this is particularly sensitive in medical institutions. And, yes, it's being watched especially well and every day. A surgeon informs the health - care minister of each local situation and has a good relationship with the company's welfare services in nursing homes. In conversation with the head of the nursing homes, it became very clear that the situation is very delicate. It's manageable, it's not on red in most places, as they say, but we can say in yellow, dark yellow in some places. The design is close because extraordinary numbers of people from now on are from time to time, bringing up those who only weigh their assignments. But the situation is manageable. I think that's why we're doing this very wisely, and this is our biggest project right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u45	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The new director of the Land Hospital says that staff were able to cope with the pressures of the epidemic, and many have grown weary and need rest. The treatment of health care professionals in the epidemic, which has lasted almost continuously for two years, has been discussed here in this room and called upon to react by the government. The last time the person here spoke to the highest level of conversation. The minister of this answered the highest. So a minister would not allow the problem of design to be solved in a short period of time. Rather, he would be a long - term project. But, Madam President, we are exactly confronted now that the pressure on our staff is way too much. Procedural coldness due to stress is not allowed to become an epidemic among health care professionals. The problem for the designer who was known for Covid will then be even more serious. Covid has been delayed for surgical procedures, with the exception of the pressures continuing after the pandemic has passed during the period of waiting and working on a cumulative problem. I want to pray to the highest. HCPs to state here that measures have already been taken and what actions are being made to reduce the stress of health care professionals. I also ask how it is to reward the staff in particular for turning aside everything in their lives to keep the other staff up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir "Oddju G. Oddný Harðardóttir for putting in here the pressures which are obvious that it has been a long time and is being taken, the nature of the case, to deal with. It is quite amazing to see that this lasted for two years, with varied pressures from the difficulty in the waves we have gone through. And you're right, it's slowed down on other functions. But I have to say, it's been quite successful with perseverance, indeed, endurance, and the ability to look after the staff and the hospital managers to carry out other services. But it has indeed been slow. In particular, there have been slow-down surgery, which has been tried to sort out what emergency procedures are, etc. I think it's worked out quite well, considering the circumstances we're dealing with in Covid. At the same time, the tunnel has shown a great deal of intelligence. It is obvious that what has helped us in the late stages is a good vaccination course and the treatment of the Covid parade, where there have been 9,000,610,000 people in the past few weeks, with 25How30 people coming every day, who lie down and receive intravenous fluids and medicinal products. They are kept from lying in order not to block too much in the hospital. It's been going so well. Regarding the recent procedures to lure us through this, temporary changes have been made in planning, additional work support have been made, and the agreement has been made to private partners to come in and run for the load that is most stressful in the hospital. And there has been additional relief supplies from rescue teams, from other medical institutions, and there has been considerable cooperation to keep this going. This situation has been handled and handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u47	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of health for having this conversation with the council. What a fine example that is! In time, it can be added. It's a joy, of course, that we're going into a decommissioning program here. I've already made it a subject, and I'd like to repeat it here that I'm concerned that it still seems like it's easier to take freedom from people than to return it back, and that though evidence suggests that it may not be necessary. I think there's something we have to keep in mind. To this end - of course, there are many things I would like to take here, but I would like to make a special interview with a minister what I've felt may be rather minor in the general discussion of this reduction plan and its time frames that are action on the border. I just want to start by asking a minister what the evidence is that, I don't think I've had a lot of trouble, that it's not to be examined faster when the situation is that we know about the situation and that the situation may not be as dangerous as it could be expected since then, and, if you allow yourself to put it that way, when the infection in our society is that there is so great and many without a feeling of danger. Why, as I perceive it, is it not to be considered more conclusively on the border?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the questions. Hv. A senator came here first because it may be so that it is easier to put on than when it comes to freedom. I'm not gonna say anything about it. I think there may be some things that explain this, but if we tied it to the health minister's duty to review the individual needs in a complete sense, I would like to answer them, so that it is not necessarily certain when this whole evaluation takes place that the circumstances that existed when we put on hard meeting boundaries will automatically lead to their recovery because the situation can change so at this time. This is kind of what I've been doing every day in that effort -- as I said in my opening address, it's been a little tricky. You come in every day and should actually say, "How can we do this, lifted as much as we possibly can? But we must always take into account the situation at one time. It's time for border action. There is a border group at work, both the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Presidency, that examines these constant hands and the rules that were given in the last place were required to apply to 28. They are taking together a memo on the comparison of all other nations. It seems to me that the only thing I've seen is that it's very similar to what we're doing and, most certainly, more stringent than in other places. But at the same time, we must take this whole assessment of recovery. [[The president calls.]] I think this is a very important prospect for tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u49	President. Thank you very much. Of course, a minister for these answers, and I take my heart to anticipate the possibility of traveling as much as possible is of utmost importance. V.E.G. During the days, a travel minister put it this way that, of course, it would be a huge interest for the tourism to be in, if I let myself say it, we would run the countries around us so that we would be competitive toward those who were thinking of traveling. In this context, the countries around us are just considering reducing their action on the border or planning to do so within the next few days and weeks. That's why I'm here repeating my question. There are so much interests underneath, both for the tourism and for the whole country that I would think that, in view of this, it would be normal for us to be more aware of this smell. I just want to say in this context, for I know that there are a lot of things in this and that have been so far and that I have a great understanding that about two weeks ago, the United Nations World Health Organization, WHO, showed that action or a very large limit of limits on the border, is not a useful method for the ultrasound species, but can cause serious economic and social damage. I just wanted to keep this perspective up, too, while I wanted the highest. A minister of great good and powerful success in his reduction plan so that we can all as well keep our heads when we come out of all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir Sveririsdóttir for these good questions. I liked it when it rained. That is exactly what one senator concluded because it works a little like that. I feel the pressure every day, and I think it's normal. We have the circumstances that are now, and I repeat it over and over again, to follow our major experts and risk estimates and take into account the constantness of the situation so that we can handle the situation. It's a little project right now. Hv. A senator here brings up the WHO opinion. I think it all mattered when we're talking about borders that, of course, there's a clear way for people to travel, that it's not being stopped here and where and tests. We are filling out various reports and data, and we must make sure that there will not be an arrangement that just keeps going. That's a very nice line when we get there. The main evidence in our contract has been concerned with new variations of the total transmission across the border. We'll be quick to realize that when they come, we'll have to scan through the border. It seems to me that the border population is doing this in accordance with general delinquency, just what's going on in other countries, being consistent. I know you shouldn't be creating some expectations. I know the travel service is being watched. We're on low ground. Travellers can say in their books: Here, on March 14, sooner, it will be lifted. I think it's a matter of view. I would expect this to be in harmony with other exposés and sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Health Minister for his clear report and review and questions and answers presented here. Being a health minister in dangerous times, epidemic times is a huge responsibility, and most of these have had to make sacrifices and some of them have made very much sacrifices, even sacrifices such as losing businesses, losing family, losing lives, and losing health. The responsibility is hung especially around one person's neck, and I don't exactly envy it. I must express satisfaction in the way a new health minister has dealt with this situation, out of absoluteness and humility, and in trying to do his best as the people always do in this house. All of this, however, is unprecedented, and there is no experience in coping with such a situation. We have two years of experience. I'm particularly grateful that there are no prejudices against private service companies in this house, at least not at my health department. I'd like to specifically mention deCODE's company which I believe has made a big difference here at the time when initiating high technology for analysis, trace and the like. In the event that this wasn't the last variant, this mild ultrasound variant we're dealing with today, would there be any barrier to going to deCODE again or to similar companies? Now I know there's no longer any work on this, so I'm asking the minister to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u52	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The man Jakob Magnússon for his excellent inputs and questions. Hv. A senator was particularly familiar with the big picture of this, all the sacrifices we have had to make as a community through this epidemic. Of course, not all of us agree on what is best, and it is a difficult means between holding on to freedom and being careful and being careful about our weakest fellow humans who are more sensitive to these things than others. That can be quite tricky. I mean, we've lived so well, despite a very small system, public security and office, having had experts with us this whole time that we've been able to do it. We have many evidences that we have done quite well because of these experts and infectious experts. In this small system, the strength in cooperation has been so clearly demonstrated. This may have been reflected in the fact that we are not here wondering how the right form is in each business unit with knowledge and skill. It is true that in an unselfish way, we have been helped by Icelandic genetic analysis when we have been tested for the power of the sample. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is developing, we don't need their help right now, but I know that they're always invited and ready to run for the baloney. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Two years ago, the chairman of Flock's people pointed to the real issue when she spoke of the importance of taking good care of the border, removing the powder from the uninfected and the uninfected. Of course, it conflicts with interests, conflicts with the tourism, the capitalization it has become, and I don't think any country in the world has taken part of some kind of border difference or some sort of observation. For my part, I would have considered it worth searching other ways, but the almost violent drills up our noses with hard pins, but it's better to get them up in the mouth. There must be a way, if necessary, to make this pain - and - worry, in whatever way it may be, in the technological system of the satellite world of the world of things could be able to find other ways to do so in case of need. We have the special privilege of being an island in the middle of a sea surrounded by sea. It may have involved earlier in centuries of negative and weaknesses, but today we may view it as an advantage when such a situation arises, admittedly, an advantage is that there is mainly one way into the country, and it can be protected with zeal if necessary. In this context, I remind myself that Iceland, surrounded by sea, is really a Sæland Land, just like our spiritual leader.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator put in and like a dog. It was all poetic. I might have some pathetic opportunity to figure it out, but I'm gonna let it go for a while. I need so much more time to put two lines together than I do. I thought why. A senator highlights the technology we have had to perform a sample. This was especially burdensome for children. Fortunately, we develop things quickly. We have a lot of good scientists and tests that have done enough to take a sample of saliva. I am convinced that, as the years go by, the European community is now setting up such a cohesive program to hold on to things and work on these matters in the future, when it comes to obtaining data, vaccines, and technology, the cooperation will be clear and formed between nations. I hope that it will strengthen us and in the country as well as in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u55	President. As early as the fall of 2020, it was clear that it wasn't a V-shaped wave, as everyone hoped it would be, and dealing with the same magnitude, as the government did, meant that there was never anything long-term. Enrolling money in innovation, hoping that everything will be done by itself is not quite so if we look at the rearview mirror, what we should have done. Now it's got the highest. For example, the secretary of finance spoke of a legal obligation to lift limits, which has been the whole time, the law of the government to explain why they place restrictions. In order for governments to understand why such restrictions need to be restricted, there needs to be some kind of limitary plan to minimise the consequences. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because he's here talking about wise extenuatings, e.g. from 10 people to 50, general limitations, opening time to 23, but why not 30 or 100? Is it because if the limitations were to result in 100 people but not 50, the number would increase by 200 that would affect the Land Hospital and put an even greater strain on health care professionals? For example, what is it? the size of it? My basic question to the highest. The health secretary is, in effect, able to walk up to a document that has been updated throughout the epidemic of the Ministry of Health, which tells us what the consequences of an increase in pressures e.g. Healthcare professionals or students have an extended period of time? What are the consequences of the limitations on society in ways other than Covid-19? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is there such a document as the highest. A minister can contribute to a welfare committee, e.g. and explain to us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u56	Senators are reminded to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a big question, the Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví. The simple answer to whether I could submit complete data here and now is that I might not be able to. On the other hand, I could work with a collaborator to pull this together and evaluate it from time to time. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has actually answered this, he pointed to the right thing, and we should just talk about it the way it is. This is not a very accurate science when it comes to limitations and precisely what happens through this epidemic. Like what? A senator knows very well when he is programming and using simple programming, if and then, it's not exactly that way. I can see, however, when I try to trace myself through just this hour to or from the time we close the restaurants or the meeting boundaries in a number or something like that, that it has developed some kind of feeling, a knowledge from a psychiatrist and his specialists and in the Ministry for what it means in any way to spread infection. Reading through it is an amazing thing. At the same time, I see it now in this latest variant, because what is really behind it is not exact, our own behavior is how we live, as the epidemic becomes safer with our own behaviors. [[The president calls.]] I think we're going to take it from there, so to speak, how we'll react when this happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u58	Mr. President. I thank Ministers very much for their honest answers. That's exactly my experience of cooperation with the highest degree. Minister for cooperation, e.g. It's a legal committee, just to get it straight. This is based largely on the feelings of people who have been caring for our response in the epidemic so far. I do not minimize the experiences that people have experienced every day for almost two years, the value of such an experience, and the need for us to listen and trust in such experiences. The rest is what I pointed at and at the highest. One minister says that there is not really a document that is updated regularly and that we can consider what will take place after the epidemic. For example, what are the consequences of dealing with such problems? Because of the pressures of the health system over the next few years because of the risk of burnout? What is the context of this? Rather than enduring in the present state for another six months or hopefully shorter or whatever the situation may be, what would be the context of trying to lose more weight now? It's that kind of emphasis you'd like to see, a little thought into the past. It's a long-term project, and we always need to take into account long-term schedules. That's something Piratar and I have been calling after the whole epidemic but the highest. Secretary of finance has just mentioned at the end of the epidemic, which may not be just the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u59	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir This one is Gunnarsson's Leví. I think that's what we're talking about. That is exactly what we should do. We know that there have been reports through the epidemic we have received on committees, on the health monitoring committee for mental health, for social and social services and assistance to various groups, and then on the financial consequences panels and on the success of the measures, and in trying to relate the situation to the economy, unemployment. Data are extensively available. There's an error. The surgeon general has taken up a large amount of material, it's an monitoring team at the Department of Social Affairs, that's the health Department monitoring team. I think that's what I'm talking about. A senator is actually putting out here if what we should go on is to take it all together. I hear so many times and many times in times of crisis that many people start calling out for the plan because it's uncomfortable when we're in a lot of uncertainty, and the reaction is, "Where's the plan? When it comes to the government, we've kept a plan, and we've stuck to the level of government service. But then we are in such an emergency situation when it comes to preventative measures that strongly affect this picture. I think that somehow we need to figure out how we can arrange matters when it comes to a long-term vision of disease prevention to call on the plan that is actually present in a national budget, government policy and the environment of public finance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u60	Madam President. During the Council of Europe, a weekly discussion of parishion Action in the Battle of Prepandemic Korean Virus, how to manage it, and how to get us to succeed in the most successful way. There were many opinions, and there was a measure of solid solidarity on the final decision of the council. It showed that a baby - born crown virus is more than just a health issue, since the effects were also on the economy and on society with increasing poverty and inequities. They encouraged Member States to introduce public health and social measures to promote vaccination, mask use and respect for the near limit of the border. There's not many people who've done so well as we have so far. It is intriguing to listen to this discussion and reason and to see how well we have really been doing here. We are now in a position to be successful and careful destabilizing because of the extent of national unity that has really existed and thus save many lives, it has been mutual respect for life and health, and trust in our general health and vaccinations. Then I come to a question to a minister: Is it not true that a minister is successful and that it is important to continue to build on the basis of the changed circumstances and that there is still no reason to encourage further immunizations and react to false stories and propaganda against immunizations and to continue building up the trust needed without anyone being specifically obliging? And another question. The European Parliament also recommended that those working with sensitive health care groups or social services be vaccinated if they intend to continue to do so. What's your position? A minister for such measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u61	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for his deposit here. He began his talk by referring to the Council of Europe, and yes, it always shows up in conversation with those who are dealing with exactly the same thing all over the world, how well we have really succeeded in this epidemic. It has not really changed, even though we have more news of the fact that full recovery is taking place. Then our expectations will increase as each one of us wants to review this principle that is necessary, but it is certainly set to limit infection. Of course, the primary weapon is contagion, isolation, and all sorts of restrictions on how many can come together to prevent spread of infectious diseases. That rule is not more accurate than it is, and it depends on where we are, on suppression or regulation, at which place we are at each time. But I agree with what. A senator in it, we've done very well. Let me mention the solidarity that has remained in the community. The same thing happens. magazines in accepting the optional but available service of vaccinations. And regarding the level of vaccination, it is evident that a high level of vaccination has been helped. The visuality of the Covid Corps has helped considerably in addition to the solidarity. I'd point those three out. I'll give you a better answer later on about my opinion on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u62	Madam President. I thank you for the answers that have come along, and I expect more here in the future to answer a minister. I think there's a reason to remind us that although we're on the way out of the epidemic, the situation is that two weeks ago 332 million Covid virus was confirmed in the world, and not all, as we know. 5.5 million deaths have been attributed directly to Covid. This is according to World Health Organization figures. These numbers are shocking, and in many parts of the world, this is not thought to be the case. Only two weeks ago, in one week, 21,000 deaths due to Covid occurred just in America and Europe. We are on the right track, but this is reality. In the case of a fracture, the traveling process has not passed. Over the years, it has been difficult to deal with the recent social and economic problems and to protect the lives and health of people. We have every reason to be proud of our superiors, health professionals, teachers, gymnasium teachers, and other members of the program, government leaders and government, government and health ministers, who have regularly discussed these matters at this site, in order to be maintained, and the current health ministers continue to follow that pattern. We've been successful through the last semester, this epidemic. This is where the nation stands, and it's made a difference. So it is that the endurance of the last record is important, and I hope that we succeed in taking correct steps all the way now that society will be back to normal in the months ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u63	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for the inn, and he can take his words to heart here that we take the wise way out in the next few days and weeks and don't get ahead of ourselves. Because of what? The senator began his first speech by referring to the Council of the European Parliament, of course, that we are paying very close attention to the development of translation programs in other northern countries. There, too, scientists warn that there may be a delay in recovery. It is the same with the pressures of health care and other infrastructure, and we are very closely aware of this. I think it was a very successful step that the council made this adjustment to the Disease Control Act calling for a report and a strong discussion with the health minister and a discussion with a health care professional. Since then, our field service committee has regularly met our experts, who we hide a great amount of power, the nature of a matter, about something that requires so much expertise, but we also need to rely on it. The same applies to the vaccinations. Of course, there are some security valves here when we adopt new medications, including vaccine to protect against disease; previous studies and discussion of the European Medicines Agency and the National Competent Authority. This will be assessed by the surgeon in conversation and cooperation with the SEC and the main infectious diseases specialists, and it will be better replaced by a bill on a consultation guide. Then I want to end this because it is very important that we ensure the assembly's arrival on all these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u64	Madam President. I thought it was a little symbolic to listen to a conclusion of a talk each time. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson just now. There, what I have at times seemed to be the matter. It seems that thanks to the government for all that has been done well and has been successful in this epidemic. It's not. We thank our primary health care providers. We thank the nation for their solidarity, despite the fact that a message from the government was extremely paradox and that there is no agreement about things we know well. We're discussing a reduction plan here. I think it's a little overexcited to call it a plan or a decomposition plan. This was done in the last extremely similar manner, reported detoxification, and then stated that further action would be undertaken in three weeks, possibly earlier. But there was very little explanation for us as to how to do so. There is no such thing as what steps to take so that those who have been affected and who are still very distressed because of the limitations that may be made plans. We can mention students in that context. We can name business owners, not to mention those who run restaurants, stagers, and others. Of course, it has to be done with all the right reasons, but at least, if you're going to call this plan, you're going to see something about the cards. I thought it would be a solid opposite of the plan that was to be taken up, but ministers and the government have, unfortunately, spoken out a little and south and sent out a conflicting message, so you really don't know what this plan is anymore. I'm calling for an answer from the highest. A health minister about it. This schedule, read in the address book of a Dentist's Note, is it? [[The president calls.]] Can those who are running a business, those in the stage and all of these parties assume that what the psychiatrist proposed is still a government plan, or will they be disfellowshipped in some important matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u65	The President would like to remind the senators to keep their time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for his inputs and questions. The question is about the program presented here on January 28, and I went to time. It presents dates, indeed. Now, I'd like to say that the risk assessment and the record sheet of a psychiatrist is a very strong opposite. It is very clear that both there and in the presentation of this schedule, this date, February 24 of February two and March 14 are not sacred. We are in a position only now to monitor our sensitive systems, our health institutions, our social services, and other societal importances. It is only to appear each day with this spread of infectious diseases at all times more and more, which gives reason to take the gentle step sooner than hidden in these dates. But I have a complete understanding of the need for the sense of regret. There's a senator calling for it. I think it's very important that what we can do - it's all a little hanging out, we're in isolation for seven days, it's very different in people, how long the symptoms last and what services they need at the Covid Corps and then these delicate places. We're working with the reduction of isolation now, and possibly more people can get to work and then lose weight on the situation, and that gives us reason to lose them more weight. It's really this line dance that we're taking right now based on the risk assessment by a psychiatrist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u67	Madam President. Thank you very much. A health minister answers, and I truly realize that this is not an easy task, except to watch out for the figures that appear on each occasion and then to put pressure on delinquency. But I just have to say that I feel like I'm slow in this decomposition. That's just what you aim at, because we've been asked the whole epidemic to look into numbers, e.g. At the hospital, and they tell us that story, I think, that it can be done faster. I'd also like to mention in this context that when things were lifted not too long ago, the Government Ministers talked a lot about how the situation was in Iceland, that we could do things more quickly and better than anyone else. However, the situation today is that we are doing this more slowly than the countries around us, and it is not just saying: " We are in another place during the epidemic, when there is only enough information in the hospital to give us a different picture. [[The president calls.]] So I have a lot of respect for the fact that this is not an easy task, but I would surely have wanted to see that these steps were more determined and more settled and that they happened earlier. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u68	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by saying, "What?" When a senator insists that the steps are more fixed, put it first. Senator that, because it's very important to be stuck around all these things. We may need to do so better. Hv. A senator also shows this assignment a great humility, this complex situation, because it is not entirely about the hospital. Blessings are less stressful and the pressures of the intensive care unit seem to be blessed, as well as a very serious illness. But now it's just everybody's built in, because of the spread of infectious diseases, they're in some kind of trouble. The ratio of the P.R. is 8%, but we have a ratio of percentages in many very socially important ways up to 15%. There's a little bit of a situation we're dealing with day by day, letting it all work together so we can handle the situation and we're not going too fast on this. The Norwegians have now had even more severe limitations than we do. They have a full reduction of February 17th. The discussion in Norway and Denmark is a little bit from the scientific side, that it may be too fast because there is still pressure on infrastructure and health care. We're kind of this time frame, though. I'm not going to let it happen to me to let it go in my competition and be ahead of someone, not to be running the train, as someone put it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u69	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for a good report here at the council and uses the opportunity to commend him for his hard work. I agree with what. paritaprevir The former minister of the medical profession, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, referred to a new role of a coward and a great humility. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers of health to use their power of reason and to take careful steps to break free. To do this in steps and in cooperation with our experts is wise. At the same time, I rejoice that the situation and measures will be revised every day. The emergency of the Landsaholics, and we are now in the extraction phase, is most enjoyable. However, it is also important to watch the whole country, not just the Land Hospital. At the national level, like the big capital area here, health care is sensitive when it comes to the design and precursors of health care professionals and other important staff. The experience from the epidemic shows that its effects appear later in the region than here in the capital, which further supports the decision to move gently to the ground and to take decisive steps toward decommission. A decommission plan provides a measure of leadership for society and professional life. It's dangerous, and hopefully it'll go faster if the circumstances permit. But let us bear in mind that this is not a national competition to lift everything away as quickly as possible. A week or more will not tell how the Icelandic nation will succeed in fighting this epidemic. There will be other standards for doing so. Finally, I want to use this opportunity here, thanking the nation and health care professionals and other forward workers for the contributions that will soon come to an end. [[The president calls.]] We have every reason to be proud of their work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the council and a member of the Ingibjörg States of Isaksen, for a very good introduction here. It supports all the things we are doing here in careful steps. I know why. At the end of a talk on encouragement and commendation to our health care providers, a candidate has special insight into the medical and health systems. At the same time, we normally have health care in all parts of the country, although the most stressful and extensive area of the city is the New York City. What may have changed in these blessed lower numbers of insurgents is that the pressures have increased in the Covid parade department at this high level of spread. Happily, however, there are always fewer who need to be committed. This has also proved to be true, so the waves have not completely crossed the whole country. When it comes to caring for nursing homes throughout the country and health institutions, health care, and nursing homes, and very numerous services, the transmission of infectious diseases that develop and care is even weaker, there are fewer. Then there's little to worry about. We need to keep all of this in mind, and that may be a further reason for us to take more careful action so that we can handle this situation. This is the core risk assessment by a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. He's a health minister for his answers. I think it's important not to change the game structure now that the end of the epidemic has been good for us. Applying basic advice from experts has proved to be very successful and effective. However, the long - term consequences of the epidemic still remain to be seen. Then I am referring not only to the physical consequences of the virus but also to spiritual health. So it is important that your health system be prepared to meet these challenges. So, as I said earlier, we need to take care of our shifted staff and continue to cope with the epidemic. As a result, I would like to contribute to the cooperation of our health - care system that we have seen through this epidemic. It's, for example. not by private clinics to help with the epidemic and to ease the pressure. True, the traveling boy has tried the people's patience, and he will do so a little longer. The weeks that lie ahead are challenging, and we need to expect to be affected by some of the community's services. So I want to take advantage of this opportunity at the end and ask the highest. A health minister to see when we can expect detoxification on the border. As we have seen in our discussion today, this is of utmost importance to the international tourism industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Isaksen for her input and a question at the end of the border. You're right. A senator points out that despite our ability to gain our freedom again and to take away our meeting boundaries and our life into the way we know for them, there are some things that we need to work out. Both systems have slowed down so that there are longer waiting lists than is desirable for all types of operations. And sad to say, not all who have fallen ill from this virus are so lucky that they have recovered completely and are still dealing with the consequences of this illness. After the effect, we have not come to the full knowledge of what they are, how long they will last, and how best to treat them. It'll be examined. Already, inclusive patients who are dealing with such problems have just not recovered properly and need treatment. This is something we need to take a very close look at. With regard to the border, this is being examined by the border and started within the Board of Directors. These rules are being reviewed by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Health. Although this is not the case with a disease - control doctor, it is expected that the current rules will follow on February 28. But I am stressing that the most stringent action is not being maintained unless absolutely necessary. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good reason to rethink it, and it's already at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u73	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for this report. The situation is now that 19 are confined to the Covid-19 Hospital, three at the intensive care unit, and two in a ventilator, according to the current report on the Land Hospital web. The 208 staff of the Land Hospital are in solitary confinement and 8,465 in the walking department of Covid-19. In this hall it has been regularly criticized that information is so low for us senators to understand the situation. I have noted that above was specifically determined how many of those who were under the supervision of the Covid-19 parade were likely to be incarcerated. This information has no longer been published on the Land Hospital website. I know the highest. Minister why that is the situation? This so - called extraction plan of the government, which I choose to call an extension plan, in view of its thinness, brought great disappointment to the last Friday. Here earlier, there was a special discussion on the effects of disease prevention on the lives and health and environment of children and adolescents, and there is no doubt that such burdensome measures have been taken for a long time have secondary effects. That's why I want to ask the highest. Health Minister, and I know that he does not have a complete answer, but he may come up with a decision following the question: He believes that more lives have been lost because of the Covid-19 deaths or because of the cumulative impact of the activities the nation has been subjected to over the past two years, and he is likely to have an impact here until the next few years, including: Are there other factors involved in the diagnosis of disease and other factors? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u74	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ólason's gymour for good advice and good questions. Hv. A senator said that he was not expecting me to answer them but that I could give my opinion on them. There are 19 in the hospital. When it was 47 inside and we tightened about that time, there was a very heavy sound in the hospital, and then the models, as I went over in my speech, assumed that this would take quite a step. At the same time, however, data from nations that were ahead of us in the wave that the rates of admission were only much lower in ultrasound and average time shorter. That's what I've come to be, blessedly, I say. There's 26 in there, 19 because of Covid. A senator rightly missed this. With regard to that information as of time. A senator refers to the fact that we are no longer accessible. A senator asking about what's yellow and red in Birki City? I haven't heard of it. I usually start the morning with a tour of the hospital and Birki City, how many are there, who yellow and who are red, and who try to see into it only. [[Up front.]] Then I just need to look at it. I hadn't noticed. I feel like it was in the e-mail I got this morning. That's very useful. I agree with that. A candidate with the best and most realistic information is very important. That's a huge question about the years of life. A senator came with us. [[The president calls.]] I'm kind of thinking about what variables we'd need to take into it. [[The president calls.]] Like what? A senator went over there, and this has such a far - reaching effect. I'll come into this in a second answer. I find this very interesting question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u75	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm just gonna stick with those speculations that are about to lose their lives. We know the discussion of the increased number of suicides. We are familiar with the discussion about possible detection of disease, cancer, or cancer. This, of course, is something that will affect the lost year of life to the long future. This is not just what we envision right now, for suicide. I think this is a thing that is absolutely necessary to the highest. A health minister should be evaluated. The extent of the loss of life years can be nearly attributed to the death caused by Covid-19 infection, but the rest is more complex and very important. You see, it is a tremendous influence that these burdensome restrictions by the government have had, especially among the younger groups of society, that have been performing over the last two years and will arise with great weight over the next year and years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólason's hammer for the introduction and that question about the years of life in relation to the limitations we place and are inhibited for so many things in our lives and affect our social, mental, and even physical well - being, the definition of human health. Here, too, is what economists consider as a sacrifice term or a sacrifice. I'm just so focused on how we're getting close to the variables that would have to come into this way to get some number that tells us what? But when you go to such big questions and speculations, it also calls out everything we're dealing with through the epidemic, and it's really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really awful. Mr President, to have no more time for this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u77	V.E.G. President. I want to be like the rest of us here, thank you very much. Minister for the oral report. I don't think much of the reduction plan as such, just because I can't have a political opinion on it. It must be based on a scientific approach and our knowledge of the greatest people, and I believe I know that this highest kind of person. A health minister, such as the previous one, makes decisions on that basis. I would like to, however, especially the following comments from the previous speaker who started talking about lost life years, asking the senators to think carefully before they get up and start talking about terms such as lost life years without having anything to do with what that means. That discussion must be based on scientific research and knowledge. There are more epidemics in Iceland than the pandemic of Covid, including the U.S.A. suicide epidemic. He's terrible, and we have to deal with him as much as we can do. We will and will do it together. On the other hand, we have arrived at this moment now knowing in the pandemic of Covid that we need to take some of the cost of war, to some extent, the state's funds due to the action that has been required and that there has been a reasonable agreement, on the long - term and on the social consequences of this pandemic. They have to be investigated properly and I'm coming up here to ask the highest. Whether he intends to do so or to perform such tests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir boy's Þórunn for the indentation. I'm going to let me tell you at the beginning of my speech that I feel like a approach. A senator when she says that she is busy, not with the elimination plan as such, but with the basis for these decisions. We look to it, as the law tells us, and the council has really decided, that it is based on the basis of our best scientists. I think what we've got in all this process is what we've had well-founded plans from our scientists, how much they've wanted, how much perseverance, and how we've endured all of this. Of course, at the same time, we will not be able to overlook the fact that we need to look to freedom, but the epidemic is in order to limit our meeting attendance and life in many areas. At the same time, we should look to do not go beyond what is necessary. This is true through the fight, but according to the way these strains have developed, the evaluation of this has proved to be more and more recent. And, of course, I couldn't agree more. A senator, regardless of what is going on in our society, there are suicides and mental health issues that we must always keep very close in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to reiterate what I once said about the need for us as a community - that governments will conduct biological studies in the long - term pandemic because they are so many. Of course, we are preoccupied with the pressures of working staff, especially in health groups, social services, and the teachers'class. That stress is obvious, and it can have a tremendous negative effect if we do not keep our eyes on it and take action. Of course, it must also, as we have discussed in this room, be especially concerned about children and young people and I think that by going a little later than now in a good scientific study of the situation, we can make better decisions about how we're going into the future and how we have the long-term consequences of the epidemic, not only on health but on communityly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u80	V.E.G. President. I was just going to come up with this big question in the afternoon on what we would expect to face the social consequences that we look at and gather all the evidence on it. I think there were a lot of things that were done here, considering often in the past when we went through a crisis, to better monitor the services of various delicate groups, so there are data. There are also reviews and reports and reports on the financial consequences that have resulted from the counterweight measures. I think we need to evaluate the situation and gather the integrated standards and demographics of approach as well as the financial ones and cooperate with it. I think it's a good suggestion more than that. Senators have entered today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating that we're at least discussing delinquency and detoxification programs and thank you very much. A health minister for coming here and having that conversation with the council. It's very important. What I might have wanted to talk to the highest. A minister is the transparency, and what is the reason for this reduction plan and these steps, not for anyone else. Then I also wanted to look at the fact that I feel that there is something missing and the information about why these steps were taken. Now, after much comments, especially in culture and application, there are limitations. I've understood it so that the mass of 500 is based on the size of the houses, so it's not exactly some kind of science behind it, it's more about what works for theaters and other Events. Then I just want to know: What is it that decides, this priorities, so it's not taken into account -- as if I've come into it, is the reaction we're dealing with, that it has the least unnecessary or burdensome effect on business. But I want to enter my mental health. Why aren't high school students in there? Why not spend time in high school, at school, and other activities? That's important. It is something that the government cannot add by means of money, the spiritual health of high school students. Where are the measures and arrangements that take into account their circumstances?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for very good questions. These, of course, are questions that we go through every day and on the basis of coercion laws, on which we face an average degree of equality. This reduction plan is based on the risk assessment by a carer. It is a major ingredient for what a DC surgeon suggested in a health minister's memo. The question of 500 people, that was to maintain harmony, and I can draw out that a psychiatrist's proposal suggested that the maximum number of stores be 200, but to take care of other events proposed by a psychiatrist was raised by 500 people. Is all of this perfectly accurate and easily consistent in such a rule - making process, which has the main purpose of reducing the risk of over-explorement? No, it's not like that, and it should be acknowledged. This is also very variable depending on the way we are going, whether we are talking about total depression when we have a virus variant that makes the percentage of people who have to get sick, get sick seriously, and need intensive care, or whether these are very easily infected and go fast and start causing other problems. Then the rest of this rule is obvious, and we are winding down, that it is trying to prevent very large meetings. The difference between being in theater and playing is that everyone is looking in the same direction as there is a mask and something else, but at other meetings, the combination is common in such a way that the risk of transmission is higher. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thus, it is measured equally and by the advice of our leading experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He mentioned the risk assessment and conformity. What I want to know is what risk assessment was conducted. The risk assessment of those who made it through the media complained or made a risk assessment of the lives and health of all populations, such as High school students? A college student, although he is seriously ill with Covid, is still more than 90% likely to recover in a short period of time from the Covid disease, there is a very high probability. However, a high school student who is not nearly able to develop any connection with his three - year - old schooling, is not allowed to participate in any social activities, and will be in grave spiritual danger for a very long time. Based on this agreement, where is the spiritual health of high school students in this risk assessment, and where are the measures to meet it? Ministers talk about excommunications, mass restrictions and compromises?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is where Árnason the Aarson is on balance and risk assessment. This reduction plan is based on the risk assessment by a psychiatrist who returned in a health - care memo and on which decision is made. In few words, high spread of infectious diseases is considered a threat to the public goods of the country because of the poor workings of various companies. It is important, then, to unwind this in a safe step in order to prevent the spread of infectious diseases because there are still some who need help even if the proportions are much lower. A senator drew out here. Then there are infections, there are people from work, and there's a lack of activity. The U.S. Marshal's Department of Defense is holding very close to the data that releases the number of jobs. We're talking about a 5 to 68% share, and then there's only a very significant threat to activity. It's gone up to 15%. This is checked very regularly. For school, I'd say that we needed to get an opinion on this and research from the students themselves, how they feel. There are evidences that their well - being is better than we would hope and I think it's been very successful throughout this epidemic to continue school and activities and sports activities of children and teenagers most successful and of all the school community. And there I must commend the whole school community, and we control very difficult circumstances for keeping it going. [[The president calls.]] I think that may be one of the most precious things we have held in comparison with other nations throughout this pandemic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u85	A respectable president. Here, both in this discussion and in the previous discussion, much has been discussed about the effect this pandemic has on children and, in fact, on the entire nation's mental health. There is no question that since these disasters, psychological restoration of society is very important. We've heard a lot about what's been done. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on what he's going to do. So my question is, when can we expect a plan of action from the highest level? A minister for increased psychology services for all those, children and adults, who have suffered the catastrophe we have experienced in the past two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ólafsson It's a good one. Like what? More members of this discussion have been made available by a senator, and at 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 3. About, which was before, and that's well, i.e. magazines that focus on your spiritual well - being. I think this is where we need to take, like more of it. Councilmen came in, including Sitting in the position of the president, the status of the public health, in accordance with all other counterbiological measures, and taking an overall evaluation. Hv. paritaprevir And it was also introduced by Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir. I now have a mental - health programme in operation at the Ministry. We need to take this as a whole and as a whole. That's very important to me. It is, of course, a very important factor in prevention, in human health, but it is also a very important part of our spiritual well - being, which is so much of our public health. At the same time, we're doing a preemptive strategy, apart from it, I think it's very important, in health - related preventions involved in mental, social, and physical well - being. This is especially true of young people. But we also have a third action plan, which is in cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs, which is a comprehensive program for the older groups of society. I think if we can do something good in health care - there's so many things we have to do better - it's there and spending more money on prevention and giving these things away.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for positive answers. It's my hope to the highest. Ministers will have the council on board and introduce as soon as possible these plans for the council. In my second question, I wanted to look back a little. As a person who has participated in and controlled many cases, I know that it is always important to make informed decisions. I believe in this process we have blessed with making many well - informed decisions, but informed decisions are always based on the data of the times. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if there are any plans to make an independent assessment of the reactions that have been performed in the past two years, and then with special emphasis on where things did not have to be done, e.g. In terms of meeting restrictions, if the design of the Land Hospital had been solved, whether the cost of solving it would have been less than the cost of action we had to take. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson's questions here. Only in terms of public health and mental health care and prevention, both for the older age groups and for the mental health care and for the prevention of human health, I have put high importance on putting these strategies in the form of a synonym, just to put the council outside of the matter and to improve it, and to go through it with all stakeholders and very careful work through committees. I think it can be very strong. Of course, when it comes into the council, we try to be careful so that we can work things out and improve the situation. That's very important to me. For looking back, I think we need to do it to learn from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u89	Mr. President. This discussion has been handled well by the secretary of health. I have been delighted to hear many things here on his part, and he steps out as a leader of this series, which I like. We need effective leadership here when we cry in public squares around us. And speaking of that, well. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson takes it to heart when I refer here to the solidarity that the nation has shown in the epidemic, how successful it has been, and how important it has been to endure to the end. He does not speak into that solidarity, rather undermine it, and grudgingly reviews the recent years of success, especially if we look to other countries. For him and for others that need it, I repeat: We are now in this position to be successful and able to take steps in recovery limits because of the extent of national unity, and thus save many lives. There has been mutual respect for life and health and confidence in our general health. We have every reason to be proud of our forwardees, health professionals, teachers, playschool teachers, and other Watchers. Yes, and government and health - care ministers have made much difference over the past few years, but it has been fundamental to the fact that the nation has stuck together throughout the epidemic. Current and past health ministers have maintained their role with tenderness, caution, and reasonableness, using the best counseling from a psychiatrist and his team, using scientific guidance to make the most right and most successful decisions at any given time. And, at the same time, measures have been taken to minimize the impact of the epidemic on economy and society. Hopefully, the General Assembly of the Icelanders and the government will continue to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u90	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for the indentation. He comes into the solidarity, which I think we all value very much. I have thought this much because on this scale there are freedoms and limitations, and it is a turning point to evaluate the most detailed measures that are highly restricting to the standards of freedom, moderation, and equality. It can be quite reversed when the circumstances change and the numbers and foundations where you stand. Then, it is very important to have a formal global assessment of our major experts. If there's something I've learned from this, it's, like, a what? paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson said what. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson pointed out in his speech - possible experience after dealing with this for two years - the whole opposite of the decision that must be made either in either direction, to limit or to tighten our limitations or to cut. As you would like to become when discussions get intense, from each side as they are, and as I bear with them, most of the first things in the faith are strengthened by the need to deal with them. It's just very important that it takes place, like this discussion here today, which I actually think is more measured than I expected, much more measured and good in many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u91	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Secretary of health. I don't have much to add. It's been a great discussion, as I came in, and I hope she keeps on leaving us. I underscore, as a minister did, how important it is for us to show our solidarity and not lose our feet on our last record. It's been a hard work, a challenging project, and the people around here have done their best each time, making the right decisions, as I said. We need to keep on doing so. Conditions change and therefore follow new decisions and approaches, but always with caution and always with health and life in first place. Of course, we also need to be careful that society and economy are coming out of its best interests and that they are getting faster, but there is always life and health to people in first place. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bjarni Jónsson device. I'd like to stay with this concept, solidarity. This has been the same, along with many other factors, that have been very effective in our efforts. It should not be necessary to shine on any steps we take, how we should take, or how we should walk, as well as how we view moderateness and equality, that is so precious to us, and we must always respect the means to prevent the disease prevention in the limitations of each one of us. When we have made a decision, those of us who are responsible for bringing it to account each time from this collective assessment, the agreement is to make those decisions work without us yielding anything in critical decisions. I think today's discussion is very good in that sense that it has been calm but, at the same time, critical. I tend to watch this, so it's very bright, it's lighted in this. The numbers are definitely working with us. There is a very sensitive situation in many parts of the community, especially when it comes to the lack of many people because of illness, from work, and from a number of other forms of activity and social importance. This is primarily what happens. It's based on information from our public security department and the pathologist and the surgeon we're going to take over the situation as soon as we're getting more decommissioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u93	President. Thank you very much. Health Ministers and others who have participated in the discussion before the discussion. Now just before that, there was a little talk about solidarity, it's nice to talk about it, maybe by the kind of friends that showed up about the solidarity. Minister of health when this matter was discussed here in the January 20th council. There I asked him about the solidarity of the government that has involved ministers running out for government meetings at their separate messages, as we know it, depending on which categories they are in. That's when they said the highest. A health minister that misdirected messages were not good, confused, and undermined the position and referred to the highest level. Minister of the Independence Party, who has often spoken after a government conference on the contrary as the highest level. The health minister has been saying and the highest. Prime Minister after the incident. So although the community was large in the community, of course, it has not been sufficient for those making the decisions. Only to the decisions they are making. This is all political action. The general population is clearly counting, or at least Many feel that this is not a political decision, but in the end it is the government, and in the end it is the health minister who will decide the limitations to be imposed on each individual. It has been called for more decisions from the council. Now that there's some cross-checking, there's a review of the Addiction Act, and I can see that there's a very cautious step in keeping the council in mind. There are 12 ministers involved in the decision-making process. This is then to be put on a universal approach to a welfare committee, where there are six members of the board of directors and three governmental opposers. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister, because there is now a matter for the council that may be considered today about the changes in alcohol control laws, and it is also a matter of confidentiality: Why is the council not trusted better? [[The president calls.]] It's a political decision. [[The president calls.]] Why must political opposers of the government not have more to say, at least Do his opinions on this matter from day to day, not always a week later or two weeks later, as the work has been done here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u94	The president reminds me of a speech lesson. Half a minute over two minutes is a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for his inputs and questions. First to your solidarity, just so we'll get it over with. Hv. A senator introduced my words in a previous report or unsubstantiated inquiry, I can't remember if it was. Nevertheless, it is in accordance with the opinion that I hold on to this most important concept, solidarity. Once the decision has been made, it is so important that all of us work toward the success and success of the decision that we all work in the same direction. This does not change, however, because people may have a wide range of opinions as to whether the decision was to be otherwise, and at the government table, of course, all opinions are under way and not at all. I believe, however, that if such discussions continue in very different ways, they may undermine solidarity. I haven't changed my mind. I went over earlier that I thought, for example. The discussion here today, as soon as it has been very critical, has been calm. Regarding a set of elements that are now in consultation with a new panorama of disease protection, the assembly was involved in one of the projects there. This was a series of factors that led to Denmark's filming. I think it's for the council to handle this, both in discussions here at the council and at the moment. The welfare committee, in terms of this particular factor. But there are a lot of interesting people, and we can say, friends in this new bill that the Senate needs to review when it enters the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u96	A respectable president. I haven't read this bill, which lies inside my consultation mystery, but I've been over it, and I think there are some factors where there are improvements. Another may need to discuss a little more, as if to make this possible with the coming of the assembly. However, earlier in my discussion, I noticed that they spoke at the highest rate. Health Ministers to the problem of hospital intensive care as well as serious illness. Then you wonder, now that we're in that area in this ultrasound epidemic, if it hasn't become so that the treatment has become more dangerous than the disease. We've always reasoned this out of the public threat of Covid, but there's some other viewpoint coming into this thing that just needs to be discussed. So I wanted the highest. A health minister to wonder about it, if he can at the short time I know he has: Is it not peculiar that we are working on exactly the same measures today that we were doing? at the beginning of the pandemic with which Covid is much, much less severe, now than before? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's crew for the questions about the bill on the hospice laws that are in consultation with each other. Yes, there are a lot of benefits there, seems to me, both the order to the office and the formal consultation and the group behind a pathologist, the office that is placed there as a passenger committee. I think it is also being ensured more of the assembly's arrival, but I'm guessing that. A senator feels that the coming of the council should be greater. When it comes to determining whether the treatment has become more dangerous than the disease then the fight has changed; the ratios of hospitalisation are much lower, 0.1/0.2, they are only stratified by age groups, they are slightly reversed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But the limitations we are using are certainly designed to control the rate of spreading, so that institutions with a number of employees will be removed because of illness can cope with the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u98	A respectable president. I want, like the rest of us. Senators, thank you for this conversation we have here in the Senate Hall. It's fine as far as it goes. The prescription of the conversation is now the government's ministration plans. Actually, the only data that I can find in this case is a press release by the Board and a guide's memo on the removal of public disease measures and his proposals for it in three sections; the actions of February 3, 24, and March 14, when we are all going to put masks and stop all action. V.E.G. Minister has said that he even expects this to happen more quickly, and I hope so. We've got senators, like what they're doing here. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir was something that we should primarily look to our scientists with. I just wondered: " I have the highest. Will there be any more evidence than we do in this room when we discuss decommissioning programmes and related things? How's the top? A minister with the arrangement that we have under the law today, which actually works, so that a pathologist is instructed to write a memo to the highest level. Minister to the highest. A minister makes his Regulation, sometimes with a slight change, but the power, as in general by regulations, all in Ministers? There is no other requirement in the process. I wonder what the highest part is. Ministers are found on these privileges of the Minister. [[The president calls.]] Now he is new in this work, and he has successfully coped with it in a very handsome way. In general, it is in such a way that the Regulation's legislation is very limited, but in this case it is too widespread. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u99	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The living Haraldsdóttir questions. I could choose to look at the narrow ones, I could choose to look at them wide too. We all know how important it is when we discuss a particular subject that has good information, good access to information, whatever form it is, and different according to the subject we are dealing with. I'll bet you I have a D.A. note that I have a D.D. in my hand that shows a risk assessment and gives support to the procedures proposed. I continue to have the tools, as we would like to use here at the council, to call for, with questions and conversations, more evidence to back up. That's what I've done when I haven't felt the logical support when I have to look at it for a long time. Then I can refer to Article 12. physiotherapy of equal and moderate intensity and of necessity and of how far to go. Then all I have to do is ask and have a conversation about it. The surgeon general, the State Marshal's Department of Public Defense, the National Hospital, where the experts are, the Covid Corps and, especially, a psychiatrist himself, have been very effective in answering my questions and relating further. Since then, it is true that by the law the council, especially in the field of health care, as in this case, has entrusted its experts with a power expressed in the fact that this assessment is quite reversed and that it is to some extent contrary to proposals based on experts'risk assessment. So this is nothing different from when we're working here at the council, calling for more evidence, getting to our stakeholders, and driving us through this in order to have our logic as solid as a foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u100	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for those sincere answers. That's exactly what I'm calling for, i.e. with the information and the conversation I've been missing in our Covid road trip, I mean the council. Not that the conversation is missing, it has been a good conversation with the Minister of Health, but it is the availability of members of Congress that further data and further discussions with experts on the need for action and support. And just so that it doesn't get the wrong idea, I'm in no way criticizing a psychiatrist or our scientists, but I'm criticizing the shape we've come up here in this hall ourselves. That's why I'd like to take this opportunity and ask the highest possible question. Minister: What have we learned on this journey? What have we done well, and what do we need to do so that we can do better the next time something similar happens?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The secret to Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. What have we learned, what have we done well, and what can we do better? What I feel we've learned from a completely unprecedented fight, something we just didn't want - and maybe we couldn't have answered if at first we had the question: What are you going to do if this happened? They had been blessed with laws, many of which are health - care professionals, relying on experts who know something about this and who know how to deal with it. I think it just came to me that making the knots was a good decision. I think the P.R., surgeon general's office, D.A. and D.D. have done a hell of a job. We were desolated going that way to follow their advice. It was easy at first, but it's going to be a constant stretcher. We know that. I think it was the right thing to make the knots. We have learned this, and we have done well in following their counsel. Now, though, it is time to examine what we should learn from this. It is at the core of it. A senator started his case. Where should the information appear, and then I'm talking about the bioavailability and the transparency? What are they supposed to be? I think we should also discuss the disease protection laws on this basis, the presence of the council and the decision-making process; from this medical minister's note, to the Minister's Committee, to the government, how we look at this process and from the data. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We solved it fairly wisely with the information meetings, we solved it with a regular conversation at the beginning and for a long time, but we need to keep it in good shape. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u102	V.E.G. President. Yes, it would seem that the person standing here spoke enough for one day. Finally, though, I'm just going to reiterate that I think this discussion has been very good. It is good because as soon as it is very critical, which is necessary because it is not all perfect, it is measured and the nucleus of very many of the things that matter to us about how we can deal with challenges like those involved in this assignment. As I traced the previous speech, there is a benefit from the risk assessment by a psychiatrist of our most skilled health care professionals, and it is determined that if all the restrictions are lifted, the community will still be at risk by Covid-19. This risk is decreasing. We read it in the numbers day by day. However, it is very sensitive in many areas of society, in institutions, in health care, in social services, just in many areas of community importance. That is why we have made decisions in this reduction plan to take these steps wisely in consultation with our most skilled experts. I think it also said here that, at the same time, a review of the rules we've had on the border is at least comparable to what other nations have, and that we're looking for a lift. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u103	A respectable president. Yesterday, at the Generalist's Web and a memo from the General's office a kind of defense due to the transfer of state accountants to the Ministry Department's office, a provision that includes a completely unprecedented application of 36 g. The staff song. This is a case I took up at the General Assembly on Tuesday. As a result, the emissary of the Allegorium published a letter of inquiry to the minister, which provides indications that are very similar to the views I passed here in the Senate Hall. In the office's memo, and here I quote words in the memo, do not take sides to see if it is generally appropriate for an official elected by the General to carry out confidential work in the government's office. I can easily understand that the office is moved to say this out, not to approve of the example set here. I'm sure this memo will contain a law code that I'll discuss in detail later, but I'd like to use this opportunity here to point out that the 36th par. A staff law is an exception to the general and important principle that it should advertise a vacancy. I believe it is of utmost importance that the General gave a clear signal to interpret such an exception warrant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The government is not to play with it, and the lawgiver is not to be involved in that kind of game at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u104	A respectable president. I'm moving here one of our heart affairs in the Wings, and it has to do with competition, that real competition works across the community, and that there's no special policy. The bill touches the adjustment in agricultural products, equipment laws, and elimination of competitive barriers, and it is delivered for the fifth time. It's a matter for consumers and for those who believe that competition will lead to diversity, innovation, opportunity, fairer society, that we go from competition to diversity and competition. I'm standing here in a pitt, and I'm speaking this case in Resurrection, and I'm often given a strong reaction, and I'm gonna have to say it right now, from a number of representatives of the interests and the greater part. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, what's wrong? A senator in the chest?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u105	Save conversation between speaker and hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u106	At any rate, it is a severe reaction that has occurred from those who represent the stakeholders, who want a stable system, continue to work for intermediate workers in the agricultural system, continuing to prevent real competition. This does not mean that competition should apply here, that we want to live in competitive living conditions, live by general rules, and then with special rules in various legislation. In fact, it does occur that the specific rules are particularly in the non-EU sectors, i.e. In the fishing road, but especially in agriculture. Is it coincidence that there are some local rules that do not apply there, that some prepared Icelandic rules have been developed? Obviously, they do not serve the interests of farmers or consumers. So, what interests are being cared for? It's possible to ask when the system is like this. We are, as I say, moving the case for the fifth time, and there is no payment on committees here at the council. When we get a chance to talk about it and to stress that the public interests of the world are going up front and that we can get a case, we'll get to that level at the highest level. A president putting our affairs on a program that actually concerns the public economy, it's a holiday for me. Let's just hope that we'll be followed by a objective discussion of competition, sustainability, equality and innovation, which is exactly our theme of restoration. We want to talk about freedom. We want to talk about a simple rule, and it's really important that we do it. At the same time, we would like to discuss how we need to strengthen the local agriculture we can do the best we can. I don't get tired of saying that, either, 'cause there's always some movie that's not what we're up to, that we want to build up an Icelandic agriculture. We want to do it. But we also say freely, trusting to reason that agriculture and its environment, as they are now built up, do not serve the interests of farmers or consumers. It shows itself. At one time, Finland's largest reluctant entry into the European Union was farmers. When Finland walked in the European Union, it was the hardest thing in the breath. Farmers were afraid of the changes and regulations and conditions that the European Union was building in terms of agriculture in Europe. However, farmers do not want to go back, for they see opportunities for simple regulations and, as well as pressured by environmentally friendly agriculture, in the better use of earth and farmers themselves who are trusted to appreciate it. Few are better equipped than farmers themselves to appreciate the best way to cultivate and cultivate the earth. Is it breeding? Is it with traditional agriculture? Is it by growing quirks, by means of parishion? What's the best thing to do? What's the best thing to do for agriculture? We are to rely on farmers to be motivated by environmentally friendly agriculture, and we see that it has yielded; the way I was able to do so has changed the attitude of Finnish farmers. We need to continue to strengthen Icelandic agriculture, but on the grounds of general rules, the grounds that competition can exist, and I believe that competition will follow innovation. We're supposed to push out a few people, but we're going to have a more diverse, more reasonable environment for farmers and consumers. We need to find ways to get the discussion to a place where we can build consumers and farmers at the same time rather than spend forever confiscating these immensely important groups of society as opposing poles. It is a common interest to have these important groups talk and stick together. These are not polar contrasts, farmers depend on consumers, and consumers depend on farmers. Now, for the fifth time, I am trying to highlight the cry of an inconsistencies in promoting the level of lowness and consistentness of the market as the agricultural market is. It is about granting farmers freedom to control themselves, freedom from the intermediate forces, freedom to live in an environment so that they are forced into what they appreciate is best for the market, for the environment, for the climate, for the way they themselves can survive in communities with nature and environment. It is a precious choice to be able to control ourselves, and it is what we are trying to emphasize and press here. There are many beautiful examples of what is released when bonds are pulled off by competition and competition and innovation. Then comes the influence consumers have every time and affects how things develop. I have previously seen an example in this room when we changed the funding rules in vegetables, took a certain part of vegetable culture from closing to opening more for competition, took other ways to support farmers, gave them more direct strength, which is much more reasonable. Then what happened in the tomatoes? We remember what kind of tomatoes were like here 20 years ago. It was just one type of tomatoes, very beautiful, juicy, red, tomato, not a question, but it was just one type. Then came the competition, and now we get many types of tomatoes. We'll get cocktails. We get all kinds of tomatoes; little, large, long, round, whatever. And not just that, what happened on top of that? I remember the conversation I had with a vegan farmer, one of the largest in the tomatoes, saying, "I don't get the most money made by producing tomatoes themselves, but it's the side products and innovations that have been involved in making tomatoes. It is the farmer himself who makes money going into innovation, moving into diversity because there is a demand for the consumers. That's how competition works. That's how freedom works. It is these precious incentives that we receive by opening our community, modern it, recognize that the old system does not support those we want to support, who are farmers and consumers. So, in all my kindness - and respect for history - at the time the system was designed, I'm sure it was good. At one time, it was the Union and the business unions that had control of everything, that had a grip on farmers. There was a lot of criticism. But there were also positive things that happened and developed, and we have evolved, and there are positive things that have happened. This was the case, but now the situation is different, and other factors have come into play. We can name the climate, change the pattern of consumption, and change consumer behaviour on the part of the world's consumers, so I don't talk about important groundwork, which is tourism. Travel services have also contributed to the diversity of agriculture, the greater demand for Icelandic goods, and by no means. It also promotes many developments among farmers that need much more freedom. And speaking of freedom, development among farmers, not having side products or important products such as production of alcoholic beer or wine, which would probably be allowing farmers to sell in their own area. There's something to help, and I hope the government is about to do something about it, but not only has such a case in Congress and gasp about it in the community. We need to open these roads to farmers. The Norwegians did it, for example. with very good results, with their famous apples. They have all kinds of apple products. Norwegians are a little entwined when it comes to selling alcohol, but they allow farmers to sell such products directly from farms, even if they have some alcohol in them. We need to open up all of this, each article supports others. A respectable president. I don't think it's the laws of nature, as some in this room would say, that a medium needs to be used by customs and fees and old-fashioned committees. I'll be there later on on on the price board. Earlier in this winter, we experienced a shortage of cabbages and seals; there are not all those who eat sealerí, but it's important in various foods, in filling turkeys and things, Walterdorlate. Here, shake your head, all right, I get it. But it's just a choice, one doesn't want a sealier, and another wants a sealy. And even in the same category. [[Up front.]] - Okay, there's more sealier here than there's a speaker. But it has to be a flow. This must be so that we can choose, that we trust in the individuals in whom we choose. But the government doesn't want it. It is a political decision to consider certain products at a particular time of year. It was shown that it did not work. It was as if from the back of the ancient days to see this amazing arrangement and an event this wintertime. It may not be surprising that these three steeds, or conservatives, or what we want to name them, in the government. This incident has been repeated on their watch, over and over, fixed and static some months later, positive steps in my opinion, but still and again just static, tinyly fixed, not much, no courage to jump a little into the system. We are to support farmers directly, not have this system that is so complex as it is built up today. Of every penny we're here at the council agree to farmers with good intentions, only a violation of the farmers themselves. Still, we want to maintain this system, just in different ways. I respect those who don't want to change, but I want to fight that men see the light. I am convinced that the time has passed for us to have to suffer a lack of clothes because we have customs and such arrangements. I remember a news interview with the wonderful woman who is the crown's manager. She said: Icelanders want Icelandic, and we choose Icelandic. Why, then, are people afraid of competition? I ask, "Why are the groups that once taught themselves about freedom afraid of competition? " Why? Why don't people want to change this system? We're proud of our lips? We're supposed to trust our production, and we're supposed to create a system that supports our production, supports consumers. I am convinced that consumers are so eager that we have the courage to make such changes. The main objective of the bill is to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturer's products for the marketing of their products in national and national markets. That's why we want to eliminate the provision of agricultural products and trust in the competition and all its side products, innovation, innovation, management, and other competitive activities. Today, in 2022, there are still special rules about the milk industry. That's why I say, and repeat what I've said, that we believe in Icelandic products, that they're competitive. Therefore, we would like to reduce the interference between the government and the prices, production and processing of farms. I had to tell people, not just once and not twice, but more often, that we were still on a government committee, the prices of farms, that determines the price of butter, cream, and milk. You can't trust the market to do that. Why not? The fact that we are still in the prices of farms is out of harmony with our current demand for transparency, for healthy society, for health business, for healthy competition. The bill of this is therefore suggested that the European Commission and the European Commission submit to the European Commission and the European Commission of the European Union, the European Commission, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, and the European Environment It is also suggested that authority be submitted to implement the predetermined production requirement for products or individual products, to give more control to the market. We also say, well - meaning, so that people don't come up on one another: At the same time, we want to change the structure of a strengthening arrangement and try to increase the strength of our prayers against greater freedom. We have repeatedly said so here in this council hall: "Abdicate the customs, we consider them, let's at least a part of the strength of indirect strength, customs, farmers. " Let's just increase the direct strength, increase the incentive to maintain the Icelandic agriculture in a practical, environmental and climate-friendly way. I'd like to maintain that we don't want to lower the growth rate. Rather, I want to change how these are distributed. It is a key factor in our belief that the concentrations will be directed to the farmers themselves so that they can have more on their own with regard to how they want to manage their land and land. We are to be motivated in our own strength to create innovation and a better way to use our country ourselves and its quality. I think there are a lot of parishions, especially about how we use it. I've identified the climate, the way we think about the environment, because few are better equipped to live under a stronger environmental and climate policy than just farmers themselves. And they need to be activated on the important road ahead. We need to make our system more efficient. We need to make the system more fair. We need to make it more open, and we need to do it in the way we use it today. consumers want environmental agricultural products, and they choose Icelandic. To serve the demands of consumers, no one is better off than Icelandic farmers, whether it's domestic consumers or our friends who come to visit as tourists. Less State care, simpler strength, simpler regulations, competition, freedom. It's all like -- I'm afraid to say it, but I'm afraid I'm saying it's because there's no one here to listen to this speech - a political theme of the Independence Party. Yet, members of that party guard their current positions and do not want to hear the mention of putting this bill on the discussion, let alone in the release here at the council. It's always the same. I'm taking the case here, it goes to a committee, it's going to fall asleep. That's always the way it is. We lost the dust of this again. It's a little like Theisto, who always wakes up every year. But we still have hope that some more people than we revered will see the light, light of freedom, light of consumers, light of competition. The bill is prepared in the light of current laws and regulations in the neighboring countries of Iceland. In Iceland's commitment log that the GATT Convention requires the commitment of Iceland to provide providers from Member States of the International Business Agency with access to their market. It also stipulates the commitment of Iceland not to have rules that include discrimination, which is in favor of national service employers. A respectable president. In chapter 2 of the bill, it is suggested that the Commission's contract contracts be removed and proposed changes that reduce the unique status of Iceland's Farmer Association as the representative of the manufacturers for negotiations and negotiations with the State. We are stressing that the position of farmers who choose not to be members of the Farmers Association will be as strong as those within their second choice of organization. 16th degree. The bill also stipulates the growing support of agricultural production and state funds for environmental protection, innovation, forestry, closure of forward operating operations, the development of microindustries and tourism. These are all the points we're going to take on construction, and the commanders of the bill think it's important. We emphasize these factors, particularly the innovation, the forestry, the structure of infrastructure and the environment itself. We need to discuss further how we can become self-sustained, e.g. Regarding grain crops, including grain barns, how we will try to achieve the most of our own structure in a core. We feel that it will be achieved by changing the focus of the agricultural growth and by trying to promote more incentives, including those involved. through the agricultural growth fund, which also encourages innovation in this area, even making the microindustrials that we so desperately need according to the energy production and the current energy supply. What a pleasure it is to see how farmers are exploiting the closer environment and technology and, at the same time, do their work to promote environmental and environmental health! A respectable president. I hope this time the pro board deals with the case, even though I realize that the government groups have a large part on the job board. My experience is that the matter has not been discussed and has not been resolved. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the members of a council sitting, whether from the land of Skavetir or from the north, from the south, from the south, or from the east, to have the courage to discuss the matter and to help that matter be discussed. We're guided by the fact that we want to strengthen the local United States. We'd like to support farmers. We want to support consumers, and we want to support healthy competition. If we're guided by it, I believe we can only find the means to change this agricultural system that is a child of our time. It does not support modern standards. We need to do more than update it; we need courage to change it. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen to participate in that discussion and continue to push matters forward. I'd like to encourage the committee to go for it. I realize it's a big deal to go on the basis of experience and the composition of the Parliamentary section here, and there are even more people who don't want to change anything. But I'm going to let myself hold on to hope. And now that we're in resurrection, we're going to promote this prince.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u107	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this speech. I'll bet you I haven't read this case yet, but I've only been able to look into it and expect it to come, as the senator earlier came in to the professional committee for payment. What caught my attention, however, when I began to consider the matter was -- like the dog. In recent times, a member of the council has taken the matter five times at the high Council - reviews of the agricultural bodies. With the permission of the president, I would like to quote some reviews, including from the local community that make serious comments on the bill and say, "Yes, I am. "Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: With reference to the above, the National Farming Association of Iceland will be totally at odds with the agreed bill. If the bill is legal, it will have enormous consequences, but there is nothing more than a massive objective of land management. The country relationship of cow farmers says in the conclusion of its statement: In front of it, the National Association of Cow Prayer strongly opposes the approval of the bill. The organization is prepared to come to the committee for further discussions and exchanges. The same can be said, a respected president, of the National Society of Sheep farmers who strongly oppose the approval of the bill, and in the same way, the League of Products in the milk industry. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Because I am getting new into this matter, members of this article, field service, do not raise questions as to whether the interests of people who work in agriculture in the country are best protected by this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u108	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the Vagn of Stefánsson the son of 1st. Witchest. "for the inquiry. That's a very normal question. But it is not surprising that these parties are highly opposed, and it is not unusual either. These are the people who face certain changes and do not remind me that the stakeholders involved in changing processes took part and wanted to be effective changes in their system. There is a cautionary situation involved. I'm sure of that. I believe in the power of competition. I believe in all the side-effects that freedom offers. We have a special rule of competition, and the rule is for exactly the party. A senator quoted. It is not unnatural for a person to have an issue with a universal law on competition, when humans have pretty much control over the market, that humans want to maintain it. It's just an old story and a new one. I understand that this system was built at its time, but it's time to take the step. I'd much rather encourage these parties. During the ten months that I was the Minister of Agriculture, I had many conversations, very good, useful, and inexplicable, that gave a lot of insight into the market and the article, this important article. This does not change the fact that I want to encourage these people to face the present time when it comes to production, when it comes to what markets are today and how we should listen to what we do, not only for competition and freedom but also for the environment, to consumers. The consumers are, in my opinion, a certain dissociated product in all of this. [[The president calls.]] So: No, despite all these reviews exactly the people who fear the most changes, I do not fear to go into these changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am convinced that the changes in this matter are for the greater good, not special interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's all I'm hearing at what it's about. A senator, but we agree, as she came into her speech earlier, to want to strengthen Icelandic agriculture; for I think it's an enormously important task that we are facing, i.e. to ensure the state of agriculture and the position of the Icelandic farm farmers, which is difficult and tricky. It is our task here at the General Assembly to ensure that this situation will be improved. On the other hand, it sounds like we're doing what we're doing. A member of the Parliament will discuss the methods and methods we would like to use in this regard. I also want to, in view of what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator earlier, who doesn't want to change, says that I don't think it's right. At least I'm not at that place. [[The president calls.]] I am absolutely aware that this system that we have there, like most of the systems of our men that are approved here, is of course we should change it. [[The president calls.]] We must have the courage and courage to do so. [[The president calls.]] It's just a question of how and where we might be distinguished.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u110	A respectable president. Yes, we do not agree that we want to support and strengthen Icelandic farmers and agriculture. We're confused about ways and ways, my guides, competition, freedom, environment, consumers and farmers. This is myulia, which I put on the table, and I hope to be processed. Yes, there have been changes. I have very memorable changes during the last terms of which tolls were tightened to form on cheese, because the system does not want the Icelandic consumers to choose healthy foreign cheeses. We have to pay more for Primadon than for Feyki. Fekasa is a very fine cheese. One of the best. I buy it very recently because I feel like it's no less than a Primeadona. But should we not allow consumers to decide, not let public prices really control what consumers are allowed to choose because they have no choice? [[The president calls.]] Wise adjustments can be made in behalf of farmers and consumers of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u111	A respectable president. It's my holiday, too. Thank you. A senator is eager to bring up this discussion and that we're going to discuss agriculture here. I have, for example, participated in this discussion in the past at other councils, both as a deputy and when I was in my last term. All the talks are good and thank you for that. Granted, our vision differs from where we should go and how we will reach the finish line. Here we are discussing a bill that is primarily involved in decommissioning the 71nd issue. farming, which turns to the milk industry. A bill with the bill, if I remember it correctly, it's 17 years since it was put in its own time, shows that the purpose of this was to strengthen the article that was truly successful in making this change. I'm not going to go in taking some particular company out of its own. But then there's everything that goes with it when you get annuity card from a 71 st. Bumblems. It's, for example. The transport balance between the manufacturer and the manufacturer should be determined. In a large country, the producers of farms sit at the same table when it comes to getting their product to a deportation point. I want to direct a question to the question. A senator: How do they visualize this in a free environment? What should we do with just one small thing that has to do with transporting raw products from the source to the products?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u112	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson's case, for his frequent participation in this discussion, when he has had the opportunity to give objective tips in this regard. The competitiveness department has sent a review of this subject, and others related to it, and it does not allow fingers to match the costs of getting milk. No matter where farmers live, we should have a system that ensures that milk is collected and given the same price. We'll try to push and make sure. You can do it. But as the law is now being built, we are ensuring the level of production on dairy products. We're doing it. There is one company that has power over the market. It has, in my opinion, made evolution difficult, although we now see a blessedly marvelous development, such as. for the eagle on the West, because farmers have joined them in sending milk there. Milk is easier for Eagle to get in the west, but it is missing too. Still, I find it hard to think of all those lost opportunities, an opportunity that I think we missed because we don't have a live competition. I believe that by the competition, we have an even more diverse milk market than we do, although the development of the milk industry was extremely positive, the product development. Definitely. But we can do even more. I would also like to underscore what has been said by others over the years that we need to be careful when we discuss these matters that do not always face people, do not face groups. [[The president calls.]] I think this system is bad, I've gone over it. This needs to be adjusted, and we should be able to do so without ever having to face a group, and I ask: "Whom are the interests there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u113	A respectable president. Before I go any further, I want to draw attention to the clock, it doesn't seem to match when the red light starts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u114	She never is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u115	You know what I'm talking about. Senator. But I appreciate it. A senator for the answer. All of us agree that we want to see ways to strengthen and strengthen. I have been a spokesman for the use of the meat, that article, to follow the way the milk industry is today. There's quite a healthy distinction between us in this regard. But no matter how much we look at it, we have certain toll protection but a considerable part of the products that have been transferred to the country, of all the groceries - we don't think it's 70-80% without customs. [[The president calls.]] We can also see that we are in foreign competition. There's an active market competition, dog. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u116	A respectable president. Yes, there is market competition, but not all aspects of the agricultural industry. We also know this, when we see the inflation development now, but also during the last term when the food was greatly increased, which part of the food was most rising. Who was it? Was it the vegetables? No, there's more competition there. It was just the dairy products. The factors increased most that were reserved for competition, with the highest customs, and the greatest protection. Their role in consumers increased the most. And they're saying that the system doesn't have any effect. Of course it does. We see that where competition flourishes where freedom is greater, inflation and inflation is more low. But with more competition, more loneliness, more increase. Coincidence? No, not in my opinion. This is part of the reason we're offering this bill. More justice can be achieved, more competition for all the parties I'm talking about, farmers as consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u117	President. Me and what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir can agree on one thing: This government has completely failed Icelandic agriculture and food producers. But I'm not entirely certain that we will agree on the solutions to the problems we face after more than four years of this government. I'm gonna pray. A senator would consider whether it would be in order to stop calling the three members of the government advance, since none of the classes of this government are a forward group. However, they may be in some aspect of a retrospective. But what does it mean to propose? A senator and a associate? How is this new system really going to work? Is it possible, as I learned from chapters, to travel the European way and pay farmers even for not producing, for destroying country, to turn agricultural land back into swamps? I heard why. A senator argues with that. The arrangement, to pay farmers for not producing, doesn't mind me. Looks like we're doing it. A senator and her associates so that Icelandic farmers compete with giant farms, factories in foreign lands that often hire people from foreign lands to their minimum and less? Is that how an Icelandic family will compete with it? Other countries, e.g. Of course, Switzerland and Norway, realize that they need to protect their agriculture, their food production, and the European Union itself. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the European Union is atoll alliance and Iceland is a free trade to the countries beyond the European Union. In Iceland, riding on the ground and sacrificing the Icelandic family farms to try some theory Inculturation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u118	A respectable president. The doctrine of restoration is very simple, to believe and trust in competition, to believe a little in freedom, to believe in farmers' hearts when they get strength, where they want to go. If they want to start a wetlands that have been damaged and obtained the carbon balance, they can deposit it, if they choose, why don't they forbid it? If they want to go to something else, other fields of soil, gratification, grain, harvesting, if they choose to do so, why not let them? Today, however, they are in the contours of the old system of progressive history. I can totally take it into consideration to change my name to a government class that I think everyone has been one of them, but that's what I'm saying. paritaprevir When Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, calls them retreating classes, he has a great point. I think that's a good nickname, considering what they did so far. Hv. A senator named Norway. We were on the State Department this week going over a vacation shop with the British, a new vacation contract. At home, a political decision was made not to gain as much access to Icelandic seafood as is now, but not as much as we could, because agriculture could not be compromised. The land could not be opened more to agricultural products. Norway, however, is going another way. Norway is opening up more, Norwegians are getting more access, they're getting more business because they're opening up access to agricultural products. They trust Norwegian farmers. I still believe in this in view of the developments that have become, the tiny yet remarkable experiments where we have seen the competition enter, and that is in the field of vegetable culture, as I had previously thought. [[The president calls.]] That has given us a great deal of experience. [[The president calls.]] What happened when we opened the vegetables? Icelandic vegetable production grew initially, it grew. [[The president calls.]] She didn't shrink.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u119	President. Governments are designed to produce positive incentives. Encouragement to destroy the land is not positive, so it can no longer be used for production. We need to produce more in Iceland, not less. It is also practical for climate. What is more practical in the environment than it is that we eat as much as possible from the Icelandic family food and enjoy it? To change the rules in a way that strengthens the position of foreign factories that damages the environment and pay employees where we would never accept, to strengthen their competitiveness toward the Icelandic family farms, and at the same time to reduce domestic production, is an example that does not go away, Madam President, for other countries have not gone that way. She would have to cut the foundations off in large parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u120	A respectable president. That is exactly what I would like to protest that these are protrusions from the scattered areas of the country. Wants to play. A senator means that they stand very strong? I don't think so. They do not have enough freedom to decide how to produce and cultivate. There are middlemen today who control the whole system. Farmers have mentioned how the arrangement should be done, by the way. I am convinced that, as I mentioned earlier, from every cent determined here, most of the cost and most of the cost will probably be least to the farmers themselves. I'm afraid so. I don't understand how people, well - trained and forwarded individuals, are not to trust the competition and open up a system in this matter. I believe that it will trust farmers and will trust consumers and Icelandic markets. But we agree on that, we do. Gunnlaugsson We want to strengthen and strengthen Icelandic food production. [[The president calls.]] That is our common goal. We may first sit down and consider how we can do so. [[The president calls.]] I want to go this way, and I'll listen to it for a while. A senator wants it. I don't want to close, close and read.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u121	A respectable president and a good one. Senators and you watching the discussion. A farmer's a bus. From the farmers we come and in the farmers we shall become, the ones it chooses. I was going to be a farmer in my romantic childhood, and I went and studied farming, first up here in the Citizens' possession of the fathers there, at the White Years' Bank, then in Denmark, then in the country of birth, then in Scotland, and then, finally, in Germany. From these countries, I must say, for various reasons, I liked farming here in this country. I realize it's a public health matter, it's a matter of loyalty to take to mouth what grows around you, in your surroundings. It is called macrozothic in English, and, fortunately, more and more Icelanders and other citizens of the countries around us are leaning toward a meal of loyalty. And, of course, food security is something we've come to appreciate here in a very unexpected epidemic situation, and then we appreciate it. I think most of us in Iceland agree on the importance of maintaining the Icelandic agricultural economy around the country and that it is done with dignity and responsibility. And these terms, freedoms, and responsibilities always come through. Freedom to cultivate anything, of course. However, a farmer who planned to cultivate some extraterrestrial vegetables or anything, cheese or anything, would likely not be a very responsible family father if he was to settle it on his own responsibilities in competition with the subsidies of the surrounding agricultural products. For some reason, the most important thing in the world is subsiding agricultural products, but perhaps not much more. I kept asking that during my social studies at the university, "Why would this be so? " There were no clear answers. It's just the way it is. I think we're agreed on strengthening Icelandic agriculture, but we don't agree on how that should be done. So, what do we do? Then we agree on the reconciliation of all the parties and most concerned groups, the farmers themselves, both the social parties and others, the consumers, and the people who want to be concerned. It's been a masquerade. Farmers have been painted up as bad guys, some belithes, because there were goods and livestock. After studying four countries at short intervals to not become a regular farmer, I decided to become a CD farmer without any funding or subsidies. I think it was realistic at the time. Of course, I think some would be interested in farming, but courage and strength need to be also, and the supporting system needs to be sound, which, of course, says that we need to secure powerful Icelandic agriculture, food security, and good food for all so that we can enjoy it. There are many fine points in this bill that have been introduced and that are not the first time that we see today. But concerning this there is no great harmony, for I hear to let it pass through like this. Then I think, as soon as I thank you for the fine speech that was involved today and all the good words that have been said here, the process of reconciliation is inevitable. I said this about a week ago that a policy of reconciliation has to be decommissioned, not just in agriculture, but also in seawater equipment, because of the fact that we've been picked up and made in the middle of nowhere, but where we're not happy about how we're handling them. Although I can be open to many ideas about it, I am primarily looking to the point where we can make the peace. But this does not happen automatically. It's not gonna be that happy in this room. More extensive discussions need to be made, and we have to admit that we are not going to offer it for many more decades. We need to reevaluate these processes with an open and positive mind because we want to maintain both agriculture and eviction so that effort and loyalty will result, as well as people's health and food security, and in a general state of peace. Now again, how can we get to that place? They're here in ancient times, each and every one of them. I think of it as a little bit like the sport, as a boy. A senator, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, now knows better than I do, people can compete with FH or KR or Val, you can choose a team. Often it is only where people grew up. I think we're all supposed to get out of all kinds of holes, be all open to the idea that here may be a good improvement, here may be present, welcome, market law, mixed with musculoskeletal and stimulating environments. But what I see in Iceland is what attracted Ingólfur Arnarson to land here in the Gulf. It is the energy that created the smoke named after Reykjavík. It's the aquifers, or the fallwaters, as it's mixed this day. It is all the time to warm us, bathe us, and move on in our job life. They have been built and supplied, often in many cases. Icelandic electricity for vegetable production or other food production should be as close as possible to cost. It was the promise of investing in all the activations. So Icelandic farmers are supposed to get electricity more cheap than is available today. It's number one. There's something else we can look into, and I've mentioned before, which is the product development. Let's look to France in that stuff; Brie cheese, the Champagnes, the baboths. ▪ The report on French custodian's livestock reaches all over the world. I can claim that agricultural hygiene is lacking in many countries we compare with. I think we are generally clean and conscientious in our production of food. I have seen that the green island here in the high north is not and may and may be, if the spade is kept right, the most desirable food crisis in the world, at the ends of the inhabited world, is sometimes said. The harvest season is shorter than most in the world, but food may be more powerful, more responsible, and better. We want to keep it. Let's get into the reconciliation process as soon as possible. Consider what has been suggested here and take into account the viewpoints of everyone who wants to come when we make peace. We don't necessarily have to ask permission here in this room, we can start it, just the ones sitting here, and then we can invite others along. It can become a long, hard work. But I wouldn't leave mine if it were available. Then I'll just say that on the end, Bust-flavored stripes and improve our work ethic. Involved in the Way and to promote the benefits of our prayers. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u122	Madam President. It's been nice watching, and it's been nice to see that these matters have come to the fore. I thank you for your transfer, my ass. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, a great deal for her speech here, specifically pointing out that she was well aware of why this journey was started, and not for the first time, as men know and have referred to the discussion. Maybe I just wanted to understand a little bit more, and it happened earlier. Transporter. I was very thinking about the campaign in the middle of nowhere when we suddenly have headlines on the pages of our magazines and on the websites where there is a shortage of certain vegetables. I'm not much of an amateur on seleni, I'm an amateur about brocoli, but there was a shortage of these vegetables for a while. For me, there's a lot that's crystalting in this position. You have to ask yourself, " Can a system that makes up want be a good system? ' Could the system that makes up the position that consumers do not have access to loyalty, which we are trying to pressure their children and ourselves, a system that makes them want, be a good system? I think it takes a lot of self-diving to be able to say, "Yes, it's a good system." When this system was created, I don't think any of us would have started that journey and say, "We're going to have a lack of certain products in time. This is often the case in media-controlled systems, and I'm talking about the big picture of 'cause it's certainly just one about the way to increase freedom when it comes to food production in Iceland, that the systems that are originally created and should serve a profession often lose sight that, in the other end, those who are supposed to enjoy the products that are food. I'm sorry, but that's how I've often felt about the agricultural system in Iceland. I think the same applies to the fishing system, and I think it also applies in part to the social security system, that we have somehow lost sight of the end of the consumer or using a particular service, the buyer of the product. Of course, we should consider the other factors too, because I'm at ease. paritaprevir The other Þórarinn Pétursson looks at me and thinks I'm forgetting, it's not like that. Of course, we should consider all these factors. But the system didn't really think about it at the beginning, and when we've got so much media control, when they have so much freedom, whether we're talking about vegetables, milk or meat or what it is, we'll be in this situation that there's a lack of position. There are a number of baits because it is not well - thought that laws on supply and demand, natural competitive principles, the scope of those who produce, the scope of those who move in. It's that big of a movie in this for me. Hv. paritaprevir Stefánsson's Vagn came into it in answer to this question and wondered if we had read the reviews about the subject received at the time of the bill. At that time, I felt that he had a little selection of envelopes for his support because I ran over it at the time and then again. For example, I can refer to a review from the Society of Professionals. It encourages this to be agreed, that these changes are greatly improved, and to contribute to greater competition and great benefit to consumers. It is introduced into the competitive law, which is generally considered a penalistic way of life. It is a practice that society has considered to be so reprehensible that it is punishment for those who will be aware of it. Thus, it has long - standing wonder that such violations of certain individuals are free of punishment, fully aware of how their consequences and nature differ from those in general. The requested bill replaces this evil with the current law. This contributes to increased equality, competition, and improved general sense of justice. I think this is true, and when it comes to competition with the bill, it can also be taken into account. The World Health Organization believes that the bill will promote agriculture competition and grant farmers freedom to control their products. This would lead to an increased competition for production, global sales and retail markets, which have a positive impact on innovation in the requested markets. Of course, it's the back of the spine in what we're suggesting with this issue. We're not putting some pot on top of farmers, we're not fighting for something that dries the ideal farms, absolutely contrary. We are simply trying to ensure that together with improved and better farmers, the end is the benefit of consumers, the same way. And it also states in the review of the Contestants, so I'll keep it up, and it's an interesting word that I think we should all listen to: ▪ Aggressiveness watch has been identified by farmers that they think more of themselves than they do professional candidates. That angle even came. Strong before approximately 24 hours. A decade when the League of Nations found that consultation took place at the site of the Farmer Association on the price of certain farms that were free to use. It was then promoted that farmers'position was more like the position of employees than professional drivers. Then comes the core: ▪ One reason for this deeply entrenched attitude is likely to be the fact that, throughout the years, important farms have yielded public prices. Another reason may be that farmers in the environment they work in various ways. It is not merely that they have public support for their production but that they each have a very small impact on how their products are taken care of. Their ability to preserve their meat products is low now, as their ownership has been far beyond their reach. A state of farms for meat products is identified, including the U.S. in this fall when farmers were given up prices on their products. This is where I quote these words, these general moistures that show that farmers have more self-important examples of how they conduct their production, how they distribute it, how they sell it, and that this restriction on the import that would promote this competition. You've been talking about it here that if customs protection were dropped, or at least She was greatly reduced, all Icelanders would flock into something imported. I don't think so. It's not really about that. I think the Icelanders want Icelandic agricultural products, at least. It's his choice. I'd rather have cream with my lamb, and it won't change anything, but when it comes to a variety of products from milk, cheese, and so on, it'd be a better watch in my own eyes. The point is, we don't have this system that needs so much outdoor. Every man in the country eats what farmers produce every day, often every day. It's a huge market for these products, and I'm quite aware that manufacturing processes and much of the country and all these things can, of course, affect the fact that there can be some things that are harder to produce and some other things, and all of that. But this general law, about greater freedom and competition, applies to agriculture, as is the case with all other forms of agriculture. I think there's no doubt in it. I would like to come in a little bit and refer to what was being said before, i.e. that we have a government that is put together for a specific interest. The status of the system under this discussion is one of the key premiums of the development of this government community. Parkings on this system and many other systems. I don't agree with what happened here. paritaprevir Billed Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, to say that none of these three groups are a forward group. Well, it's certainly a very nice category, but it's a very wild party, and it's been already in agriculture business for a long time, and unfortunately, all the groups are a team for this fine industry that we all want so well. I hope that this case will receive a good and powerful discussion in the Committee and get back in here, and we will get even more and more discussion about it. I'd like to be right, because we're back in Resurrected at times because we're especially upset by farmers, of course, that's not the case, so I'm pushing it even more. We are absolutely convinced that a change in the system will improve the quality of farmers and improve the benefit of consumers, which is what it's all about. In many cases, because the manufacturing providers disagree with their profits, and the consumers who buy the products do not agree with the price, it's not a good system. There's something in the chain that doesn't work. I suggest that those who want to protect a little bit of the current arrangement look at this matter with such an open mind and realize that for us nothing but to improve national interests and the interests of those under the system and the consumers of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u123	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's winning his speech. I'd like to ask him some questions. We've talked only about selleri and brocoli and what happened here last fall. Just as there are other agricultural products, there is a custom protection, and then there are windows between where customs protection is not available. When this was revised two years ago, a large window was placed over a specific period of time to protect specific production. Then that domestic product was not available just to be said. This was pulled into the past, if I recall correctly, this year or just before the New Year's Eve. Certainly it is always that way in everything we're considering, no matter what category we are - and I'm not going to swear from my background when men may be counted for recovery, but the rest of the election's outcome, there are others who join us in it. But in this context, I would like to direct it to the question. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson: Let's just say we're done with the 71nd par. livestock that turns to the milk industry, we're just dealing with it, it's the only habitat that has this kind of extradite, it's just the milk industry, and we're done with customs. [[The president calls.]] If we take this away, what will it take to pay a farmer instead?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u124	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I know the background on the vegetable deficiency and just the customs and windows, and I had to come into the council and fix it. That's what I'm criticizing. This is a system I don't think is particularly efficient. Because we're guiding them, we can't provide for everything that can happen, and if national manufacturers don't keep up with them on the window, of course, to be open in general to improve that. So I know this background. I'm just saying that a system that is designed to be a customs protection and that there's a window and that the council needs to come and turn it into shape is not a good system. It's not efficient. That is what we want to change, and much of what we are discussing in this regard, of course, turns our agricultural system into a much greater context than that. I believe that, in time, if we give more freedom, no matter what the point may be, it is only the law on supply and demand that is appropriate. This is also the principle of practical farmers, the manufacturer's practicality, the practicality of those selling and distributing. Little by little, the normal cycle of cycle changes. And it is good to mention it in the context of this quote from the review I just entered. We have become so accustomed to guidance and need to be window control and protection and support, direct support, indirect support, somehow unable to get us into the picture that this can be the same as in other trades and productions. [[The president calls.]] The thought of that is simply too foreign to us, I think, but there are no other economic or economic laws in this case than in other sectors. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm totally convinced of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u125	A respectable president. I did not get the answer to the question I raised about the money that is needed because in advance of the problem. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, told us that instead of taking it off, we would need to improve our support. So I ask again, " How much money are we talking about? ' Today it is 6 billion for milk production, something like that. They certainly go to most of their farmers; they do not go directly. There's 46.5 billion in sheep. The question is, How much do we need to replace it? Because this is just part of the condition of the article so that it can compete with other comparable articles abroad. We all know what we want to know, that it is not too long to cross the Atlantic Ocean with goods, relatively simple languages. Me and what. paritaprevir Vagn the son of Stefánsson went and had us eat last night in a fine place here in the capital, where he ate wonderful beef from Denmark. It's all there is to it. But the purpose of what would be being done about 71rd pars. • providing environmental information on the environment of the environment; She then competes for import, the manufacture that may be in all other working conditions, and is reserved for and supported by certain tolls in her country. [[The president calls.]] So the question is, If all of this is taken away, what do we need to make in money so that we can resist the competition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u126	Madam President. As long as it takes. A senator turned aside in response. I would like to first mention, though there are some professions that have support elsewhere, whether in individual countries or in any state relationship or in the European Union or whatever, that does not necessarily justify bad arrangements in one place. I generally believe that customs and direct subsidies should be handled with caution. Where the amount of money in it is, I'm not gonna tell myself anything about it. What I'm trying to do here, and that's why I'm on this case, is to support the big picture in this. I'm supporting the slow, biting process, getting out of the system, thinking, " If we do this, how much money needs to be moved here? It'll only be on the grounds that people are free to produce and sell as they please. From time to time, some will not tolerate that competition while others will thrive and so forth. That's all I'm talking about. I'm not the kind of person to mention the exact amount of money or the amount in that context. I feel that the discussion of these matters is always lost in what can be done for a shorter time if things change, how can you deal with them, and all of this. I just want this to be an organic system where the same law applies and in other businesses, and it's very possible. We just need to get used to the idea of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u127	A respectable president. Again and again, I want to thank you for this fine discussion. It's important that we think about these things. I used to think more in the past that we're going to be wasting time talking about Covid, so I think we should take our time on it, like this council, to discuss a agricultural case. I'm expecting that. Senators Sigmar Guðmundsson and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir will join me in discussing agricultural matters to the spring. But let's just start with what the bill is about, i.e. Occupation of 71 str. livestock, which turns to the milk industry, produce milk. As noted earlier today, this was put back at the time to improve the interests of the manufacturer and make the process more productive and productive in the article. Indeed, they have been very successful in this. I'm sure customs protection's behind there too. But if we focus primarily on the article itself, we would have an economic crisis in the article at the time of this and in the midst of a tremendous stimulus and a review of the products of the milk industry. I'm just going to let myself claim here that if there are any farmers in the traditional agriculture that are so reasonably proud of themselves, then that's the ones in this article. I know quite well the other side, where meat is produced, and I have been a spokesman for that article, i.e. The carnivorous industry, the milk industry, and the rest. Personally, I also know quite well the merger of two companies north of Eyjafjordy, where farmers and private companies joined together, i.e. Nuclear food and Norwegian. Just these two companies who weigh about 10 billion a year -- I don't think we're seeing an economy there every year up to 300, 400, 500 million. There's a lot to do for that money. This is not only for producers, this is also done for consumers, Madam President. Let's move to the green sector, and we'll grow vegetables, and we'll grow our land in general. We have an amazing opportunity to attend and exactly as indicated in the speech of both. paritaprevir In the past, Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður of Gunns was made up of a certain change in work order to pay cash that turned to tomatoes, pickles, and peppers. Then it has to do with subsidies on electricity and the like. Certainly there was a great leap, and a great change took place, many species, especially as in tomatoes. It's been a great place to watch. It has also been an enormous growth that turns toward other vegetables. All of this we need to support. I think after the time we've been living the last two years that connects with Covid and all that goes with it, we're going to see an enormous rise in every raw throughout the world. Sugar increased e.g. about 26% in 2020. Energy has soared, oil. Corn food has soared. I can keep talking for a long time. We all know the situation on the border between Russia and Ukraine. I wonder what this battle is all about. It is primarily about resources and human protection of resources. In Ukraine is probably one of the world's richest agricultural countries. Thirty percent of the so - called black soil of the world is found in Ukraine, one of the most fertile and best cultures in the world. This is what we see is about to happen on all the markets right now. All raw alarms are going to rise. Although it's not much joy to talk about the increase in food prices, I think it's inevitable in part, just because we're dealing with a limited resource. As a result, our opportunities for food production in Iceland are generally in order to produce more, as we can, but we also need to create a set of conditions for the industry. Whether we have an exception from the 71 st. The dairy industry, meat, customs, or any of the customs we do - I'm prepared to discuss all the ideas in this regard. The members of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and Sigmar Guðmundsson because all discussion is good so that we can get ahead a little. We need to do so, for some farmers are utterly unacceptable. Then I give special consideration to less than one of the sheep farmers. This sector is at a critical critical critical point; there is an increase in price prices, and all you have to do is scratch your head over whether or not they're going to continue. Our project, the Lawgiver, with stakeholders, is to consider how we are going to cope with the future. How will we make sure that we produce as much wholesome food as possible? That is our assignment, whether on land or at sea. The power of competition is good, I can totally agree. I don't think the advanceers and I are specifically vaccinated about competition, we don't fear it, but competition has to be on equal terms. That's what this is about. That's why we have that frame of mind. Whether they like it or not, we tried to create some setting so that the warning we produced at home would be a competition from abroad. I've heard it so often that consumers choose Icelandic, and it's really nice to hear it a few times. Yet, it was probably the greatest import of meat that we have seen in 2021, despite all that, and it has only increased. What Is the Cause? Yeah, if we look at the customs, we're just a lot of bed in it here. Toll protection on e.g. beef, poultry, pork is relatively limited, so importing these products is relatively simple. Toll protection, of course, is present in the milk industry as well. But there are not all classes within the milk production that carry tolls, so it's not like we're with the China Wall all around us, that's far from it. The numbers tell us. This is also true of plants and other products. I don't remember how many partyes we've got in the vegetables, but there's a lot of them. It is designed to be tailored to customs in the absence of domestic production. And exactly like what's happened. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson came in earlier; of course, it's hovered and reacts badly, but it was only about two species where it was like this, of all the other species. That's where people were just shooting over the goal, and they didn't know it was right. So we always need to look at the bigger picture when we are reviewing this: How are we going to protect this? We haven't answered that today, in this fine discussion we've had. Though we believe in the rest and in this, free competition, let us always have both feet on earth. I can totally agree with that. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, I'd like to see that there were just no agricultural subsidies in the European Union, that would be the most simple for all. But the situation is that in the United States, the European Union, or anywhere, in Britain, humans have some kind of support for their production and protection in some way. It is very unnatural that we, Icelanders, are going to do something else, even though we feel that it might somehow be quite different. But the situation is this, and the world is one economy, and the competition in a little market here comes from abroad. It's not between the manufacturers here at home. That's what's riding on it. It's just that we know very well, for example. When it went perfectly well in the export of lamb in its time. We did not create a lack, far from it, but we received a wonderful price abroad for the good. Then she rose here at home, too. But the product did not become scarce. Then the prices fell on foreign markets, and this too fell. That's what we see in the birds. We can see this in pigs, and we can see this in beef as well. What happened, e.g. Last time we had potatoes? The greatest drought ever seen in Europe, the harvest of potato in absolute minimum. The potato farmers here at home who usually bought the seed, e.g. From the Netherlands there was no seed because there was too little potatoes in the area. Then they'll protect their positions, too. This was also true of food supplies in Europe, and they only reduced exports for themselves. This has never occurred to us, to go that way, but this makes the European Union, and it's a good idea. So, Mr President, we can discuss this back and forth, but I think the basics of this should always be: how can we produce as much food as we can? What work conditions do we need to set for this to be a realistic goal, and it is realistic that producers, of course, would buy for what they are doing, and consumers would receive it as well as they can? This will be our major project now for the next year because I think, and I'm not alone, that food prices in the world will rise. It has a direct bearing on this market here, so it is never more important than we as a nation to protect our food production by the consumer No. 1, 2, 3 and think of him as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u128	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It is good communication. There's a big difference between people, there really is. But then I'll draw it back, I'm thinking about the big movie for a long time. Are we going to be on the foundation of a highly controlled system that creates all kinds of problems, or are we going to try to get out of it? I think this bill we're discussing here is certainly a step in the right direction. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir The Ingi Pétursson, who spoke before me because he was referring to sheep farmers and positions there and that they are not jealous of their lot and that they have been written many reports and many reports in the news, and I just wondered: " How much of this situation could possibly have been developed because we have a highly controlled system that can be misdirected within us? I know why. A senator is well acquainted with this discussion. Could it not be that there is a context? Then I also wanted to mention it, because we're putting this ahead of our group, restoration, that we're a little bit thinking about it in general when we're speaking for our policy that this sponsorship will be environmentally relevant rather than manufacturing. We're not saying there should be no support for any mail or such. But I'm sure there's more freedom to farmers, and I'm quite convinced of it, so I come back to the sheepfolds that were referred to, and the question is very hard to believe, whether their status, their financial status, their terms, is possible because the system is too heavy and we're stuck in some nonsense that we should try to break out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson Sigmur for his answer. If I'm just going straight to try to answer the senator's question about the sheep's position then it's so that the system the sheep farmers live by is that you can produce as much as you want. There's no eating in that production, no one. There are no restrictions on what you can produce. The government support is based on payment markets, and then stress payments are linked to quality management and remuneration, and it's too much of a business to go into. There are no restrictions. But the biggest problem of this article is that we have not been allowed to work together to achieve practicality in this article. That's the biggest problem. Sheepkeepers cannot manipulate in this article, i.e. the product trade, because the article does not have the same working conditions as the milk industry. That's the big show. Sheep farmers are not trapped in their inability to go to any other branch. It's just the least of it. There are a lot of sheep farmers in forestry, very many people, although they may sound strange. They know it well east of the country, where it works very well together. Sheep farmers are very active in land healing, in a variety of environmental and other activities, and then they have a number of other jobs related to both agriculture and other jobs in the rural area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u130	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Then there's something else I'd like to ask. A senator about. It's this review of the Contestant Board that's been treating this case at an earlier stage, and I referred to my earlier speech to those words that I find at least Sighting and throwing them in here for thought and response, when the League of Nations is putting up with the fact that these views of farmers, that they think more of themselves than professional candidates, were strong and referred to in a decade of old cases, and now I traced it all down here. So mentioned: ▪ One reason for this deeply entrenched attitude is likely to be the fact that, throughout the years, important farms have yielded public prices. Another reason may be that farmers in the environment they work in various ways. This is not just to say that they have public support for their production but, individually, have little to do with how their products are taken care of. Besides, the Contestant is very much concerned that what is being proposed here is a great improvement. I'd appreciate it if I did. paritaprevir Perhaps the young Þórarinn Igngi Pétursson would reflect on this comment and how he feels about that deeply entrenched attitude, the one I was reading, which we all have become so accustomed to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u131	A respectable president. Let's get one thing straight. It is not public prices to any other agricultural product except dairy products, not lamb or pork or poultry meat or anything else. I know this statement from the Contestant Board and I'm going to be completely honest in my answer: I just disagree with her completely. I don't see things any other way than Contestance Control sees them, with these eyes. A person may be a stylist and a candidate, although I don't want to admit it, but I don't see any other way at the moment, but that we're in this place we're talking about today, we're going to tour certain conditions around the agricultural product just the way it is with us, and how it is, if we need to have this appetizer from 71.g. The principle is that a person can manipulate his business. We must also begin to realize that we are 360,360,000 in this country, with a small company competing with giant corporations in the millions of countries. The competition is everything else, whether we look at the state of the country or something like it. The practicality of this article - we need an opportunity to adjust within the article and to see if we have public merits or anything else - that is not a major issue in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u132	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for this great discussion here. If you look at the name of what? The senator, Þórarinn, the Ingi of Pétursson, in his watchpoint, might even have been found. It is defined as one of the countless conditions of Iceland's people in these areas. At any rate, I know that sheep farmers have a very difficult time. I've spoken to some of them, both in Huna and in the northeast. Because I'm staying here at the prison target and part of it, ◯i and ◯p, I'm just going to remind you of something new in the agricultural product that lies south in Italy in the early 19th century. Just as the natives of Iceland were likely monks, they had monks working there and found something to do. These men began mixing cabbages and cabbages in a way that produced a new type of vegetables. This resulted in an innuendosal property, as it were in English, ▪IP◯, and then the spirit poet Albert Broccoli came and attributed himself to this invention monk, resulting in great wealth in the brocoli production of the world, which became the foundation of one of another ◯IP◯, thetelophilic property in Britain's largest continuous movie adventures. This is Albert júníor, who became the manufacturer of the James Bond films. Is it not time for the innovation of Icelandic agriculture that could lead to victory?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u133	A respectable president. You bet your ass I did, huh? paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon, is just one of the things we're supposed to be in all the time. Since we're dealing with innovation, I can't help but look to the Radarsell. I think it's safe to say that in recent years people have been quite active in innovation. But let's get one thing straight, too. There are many things that made it possible for the company to enter that innovation. Yes, there were certain working conditions that were created around the industry. But then, it must also be kept in mind, which is a little more interesting in this context, that the import might push them a little. This may highlight a part of the language that is already being done. Councilmen here today, Sigmar Guðmundsson and the Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, that at a time when there was a competition and was being introduced to Pascal-Yurgurt, reminded me of that name, it caused the company to -- yes, certain jobs had been created for it -- went on full in all kinds of innovations and products development. We can only see when we go shopping, in milk coolers, and so forth, that something new is always happening in the milk industry, and the latest product is naturally in the wrongest economy where people are producing alcohol from mysa.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Þórarinn's Pétursson for his answer. I've pointed out some ways. The path to sea, with a big essa, is what I feel is because I'm not sure that we're going to settle for anything in this room. I think we're going to need a bigger field, a larger audience, that covers all the key elements. But I've also identified products development, energy prices and now innovation. This can result in hope, product development, energy, innovation. There is hope for Icelandic agriculture and livestock. There are 3 billion subs in innovations around the state and things like that, if not more, in all kinds of funds. I would emphasize that we are looking for innovation in a larger context than milk production, scurry production, and now alcohol from mysu, a truly wonderful example of innovation. I think we should give up, a offense is the best defense, and under these circumstances, sheep farms are protected and other forms of farming in Iceland. Some foreigners find that over here a person's head is a business of farming. They're the ones who don't know enough. I say, there is hope and a general agreement to the rest, so nobody needs to panic over the idea of becoming a farmer in Iceland, like the one standing here at the age of 19.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There wasn't much to ask about, but there were good, beautiful ideas. True, what we are doing is always hope - if we do not have hope - it is as if humans have no faith in something and things are self - righteous. That's how I think things that simple. While there is hope in agricultural production in Iceland as a whole, it is not limited to poltergeers and cows, so far away. We are to be added in all areas, whether in milk production, meat production, vegetables, grain culture, etc. We live on land, which sometimes can be a pretty tough master, as far as nature goes and so on, but it's also productive. We have an opportunity here by electricity, by climation, by reform of grain and oats and other products, to improve production. The fundamental thing will always be the same, so that it can take place, we need to create specific working conditions around production so that it can compete with the production abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u136	Madam President. The principle behind the worker's law of advertising on the order of public office has a very important view, including the following: for the equal of the citizens, that those who are interested in a certain public job or office should have the option to apply for it. From this general rule, there are very few exceptions, including 36 st. The staff song. As I mentioned here today, it is important that the Council send a clear message that such restricted forms should be interpreted narrowly. They are not to be played with, either the executive or the lawgiver. If we look at the Generalist's letter to the minister of Culture, we will see that it is expected that the transfer of a state accountant would be based on the second legal force of 1.mg. 36 st. A staff song, a transfer from one office to another. But now it is discovered that the minister and the Speaker were based on 2 mg. the same articles, a new paragraph set up in the 2016 Law that discusses the transfer from office to job. [[The president calls.]] I don't think anyone here at the Council thought in 2016 that this warrant would be used to sell an official who has been elected by the General to supervise the Commission to an office that is subject to execution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think anyone ever had an idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u137	The president asks the speakers to adjust their time according to the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u138	A respectable president. I'm going to say something. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the Jóhannsson of Jona feels good about having been involved in this matter over the last few days. I might also, since we're discussing the boundaries and grounds between legislatures, I would like to hammer the iron that's been hammered here in the last few days; it's that we're still waiting for answers and explanations why the Minister of State, Internal Affairs and Foreign Institutes are not going to go to law when it comes to giving state rights. I'm going to direct the challenge to the President to keep the matter awake. But again: I take my heart to that viewpoint and worry. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson was involved earlier, and it will not only be exciting and interesting to see the letter sent by the agent; it will be really interesting to see the answers to matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u139	A respectable president. I also want to thank you for the reason. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson is promoting this case because it's a big deal. It is about the boundaries of the government, the trigraphy of the state. This is not to say that a minister will be able to cross those boundaries in a practical way. I have a lot of warning. I have the natural hope that this will be answered, that the Councilman will be answered the first. As a lawyer, I feel at first glance--I'm not going to make comments at the university, industrial and innovation minister, but I have a real warning about what a cultural and commercial minister is doing. It is the boundary in my view of the words far beyond the vagueness of the times. There is a clear limit to which we need to respect, but we need to wait and see what comes out of this council agent's opinion. But it seems that there is a great deal of difficulty, and a great deal of growth on the part of a cultural and commercial minister when it comes to trying to select a ministry manager.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u140	Madam President. I want to agree with what. The delegates, Sigmar Guðmundsson and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, thank them for putting this matter in a larger context. To be honest with my mouth, I am concerned with how the Government Ministers associate with staff laws in the replacement of the Council, both with regard to the hearing of the Ministry of Justice, without advertising in a new university, trade, and innovation - which is used in the use of a new post, it is required to advertise any particular situation of justice elsewhere - and this order of the Ministry of Ministry without advertising in the new Ministry of Culture. I allow myself to protest strongly that the Council is drawn into the sequence of events, the order, by the recklessness of the situation, and by the example of this. This is not good for a prince's triune authority. [[The president calls.]] This is not to increase the respect and credibility of the Generals and the surveillance agencies involved in their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u141	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned the dissociation of the Council and the sequence of all the events that we went through during the days, and we are talking about communication between the legislature and the executives, boundaries between them, and perhaps some of the information given between them. Then I feel that I have every reason to put it into practice. A senator brought it into contact earlier, that it is very critical when we are discussing the Council of Congress, the disparagement of the Council of Government, and the way the government wants to conduct matters, that, after we have settled the matter, good, detailed information about the cost is delivered here by a senator's inquiry. Not while we are taking care of the matter, so that there may be food for the material discussion, but afterward. Therefore, there is good reason for the president to pay attention to these three matters, the first of these matters. A senator moved before, also the internal minister's contact with the General and Education Committee and what I mentioned here, for granted information while taking a financial position on the case rather than afterwards. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u142	A respectable president. These issues are about to turn into an arrangement. It always comes from time to time. It's as if a minister of culture and commerce came at night and kidnapped this Ministry Secretary or robbed him for the job. It's not. I'd like to remind you that this case came into the Presidency Committee. Group of Groups, as long as possible. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson did not object - there were no conclusions or books on this matter, so I can't see that this case is something that is stalling and should be on our table here at the council Hall. It's just an official who's moving to work voluntarily using a probe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u143	He's not moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u144	- I heard he's moving. He must have a problem with this decision. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u145	The president asks meeting officials not to converse with people on a talk chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u146	Madam President. I'd like to say for this reason that there was a why. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir up ahead of me and described that cases had been discussed in a specific way on the presiding committee. Of course, there can never be a basis for those who cannot come up here and discuss matters that were discussed on the presiding committee, just to be maintained. Congressmen have full freedom of speech on what subjects they set out to adopt here under the supervision of President. It is now very likely that we non-committee members are in a very difficult situation to obtain information on a subject we would like to take part in. [[The president calls.]] I just want to reiterate that a discussion on the Presidency Committee will never be able to shut down any party that didn't make a comment there is a discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u147	Madam President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for building high-tech dumps. Transporters are the one standing here. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Central Party. We suggest that the General conclude to hide the environmental, energy, and climate secretary to investigate the practicality and potential of building a high-tech dump that treats most or any waste that cannot be recycled here on land. A minister introduces the results of the spring survey by the General of the Council. Here we call it April 1, 2022, but when we made the decision during the past December, it seemed proper, but we do not comment on it. The Environment and Transport Committee determines this date, although within the period of the spring session. This proposal has been made three times earlier by a member of the Central Party, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, first in 149, then at the Council of Justice, at the Council of 150th and 151th, and for the fourth time. What has happened in the meantime I go through the following, but of course something and other have been gained as to the development of these issues since the proposal was first submitted to June 2019. In the United States, the number of wastes has increased to a large extent over the last few years. In 2016 the amount of waste that fell to over a million tons reached a historical peak in 2017 when it was 1.4 million tons. In 2018, however, more than the previous year, the number of wastes fell to 100,000 tons. The EEA annual report in 2019 reports that by 2018, each individual population in Iceland fell to about 712 kg of household waste, which is very high compared to the average in the European Union. However, it should be noted that household waste is not only born in homes but also that similar waste is available in companies, e.g. Hotels and cafeterias. Part of the waste goes to recycling, but much of the remaining waste is being made up in areas of the country, including land. and in Eelphnes, and in the hole of a fool, and in Mereram, and in the plains, and in other wastes. Eelps's garbage has a work permit to receive and waste up to 120 thousand tons a year. By 2018, 141,358 tons were made in Elfphnes and 132,609 tons were made in 2017. The waste industry of Western lands has been authorized by the disposal of wastes in a stupid hole in Murmorm, as much as 15,000 tons per year. By 2018, there were 15,457 tons of waste there. The North River has been authorized to grow up to 21,000 tons in St. Louis, a country in Savvab, near Bedostown. By 2018 it reached a total of 21,745 tons, whereas in 2017, 2023 tons were placed on the top limit, if not above the target level. Disturbing waste can cause a long - term water pollution, but is not correct. In recent years domestic waste has not been transferred from Iceland to burning in countries other than pollutants, e.g. oil wastes have been sent to other countries to recycle, e.g. for use as fuel or otherwise for energy production. So recently, there have been ideas of running garbage into other countries, including Sweden and other countries, for incineration of so - called high - tech garbage dumps. Incinerators are designed for the burning of waste by special technology and cleaning equipment and can be used by a person formed during the incinerator. In 2016 there were 2,200 so-called WTE (WE-to-energy) garbage dumps worldwide. There are a number of these incinerators in Europe. In Iceland, there is one garbage dump that has a license for waste incineration, which is the welcome, grouping and incineration plant, Kalka, owned by the Southern Community. This facility can burn up to 12,300 tons a year and is prepared for a low level of cleaning equipment. At the station, most of the land's hospital wastes are being burned, as well as some of the toxic wastes affected. The European Union aims to eliminate only 10% of all wastes produced by 2035 and has taken up the policy in many European countries to burn waste rather than waste. In accordance with the national waste management programme for the 20133/42024 period, waste disposal is aimed at improving and greatly reducing the price of waste. That's where even the two of them come from. until the rise to the most common route of waste in the country has been reduced but in recent years there has been a significant decrease in the number of waste wastes available. Based on an integrated report on pollution pollution control. Clearly, with increasing environmental demands, the nations of the world will have to make arrangements to eliminate the environmental and economic wastes produced by them. Therefore, it is time for Icelanders to set up their own high-tech dumps based on the highest level of pollution prevention requirements. High - tech dumps have many advantages. By burning garbage in a high - tech incinerator, waste is converted into efficient energy, electricity, and heat. At that time, the latest high - tech dumps cause relatively low air pollution, far within the limits allowed. Less land goes to waste, and ground water is less contaminated. For example, the use of a new high - tech dump at the Amazon in Copenhagen was completed about the middle of 2017. That year, nearly 2,2,000 tons of garbage were burned at the station. The network is expected to handle some 400,000 tons of waste each year, resulting from some 600,000 inhabitants and some 46,000 companies. The wastes are absorbed from electricity and heat to some 150,000 homes. In 2018, 443,000 tons of garbage were burned at the station. At the 150th legislation of the European Union's Environment and Transport Committee, it was stated that by 2035, some 140 million tons of waste were to be disposed of in the EU despite the completion of all the budgets of the economy, recycling has reached new heights, and the price of waste within 10%. If the same basis is applied in Iceland, it can be assumed that in this country the amount will be about 100,000 tons per year, with about 50 to 46,000 tons of waste a year from the capital area. The cost of building for high-tech cremation may be in the range of 18 in the order of 22 billion dollars. According to this assessment, I come to it better later, and I could not compete with energy prices from the hydro- or geological functions. This should be taken into account in the final review. It is important that Icelanders take steps to recycle as much of the waste as possible and spend the remainder in the way that has fallen to protect nature and environment. This will contribute to the protection of the natural environment for living and future generations and will show that Iceland is responsible to dispose of its own waste with as little pollution to the environment as possible. I'd like to introduce to you the news that's just recently arrived at our country for this. At the beginning of 2021, January 11, the network of environment, energy, and climate services, or its predecessors, reported a report that had then been prepared for the EEA on the analysis of the needs of municipal treatments in Iceland, which had been submitted by September 2020. There we see a picture far different from that of the unwillingness of high - tech operating centers in such areas. There are different scenarios; one station for the whole country, five smaller in different areas, and then the third option, which is now made out of my head. Of course, much of these speculations are being done in the best way of moving waste between areas and the streets to minimize costs and environmental impacts. This is at the beginning of 2021, and then word came at the end of 2021, which was given a New Year's meeting last December, where they were telling of an Scollea and Kölku work group, the Southland village station, the village of Western and the Environment Ministry, where the group had come to believe that the best option was to build a garbage dump in Elfsia. That, of course, is a very interesting development. However, because of the fact that experiences are available, it may be possible to encourage something to the fore in this matter that, unfortunately, things happen too slowly on long chapters of the state and rural society. But in terms of what men might be more rushed by, called GAJAA, they are still biting out of the needle with insufficient preparation. It is of vital importance that this issue is established, and the national community is reaching a goal in terms of the fact that these developments occur. A report on the results of this work group on the Kingdom News Web site, published on December 15, last year, by the permission of a president - this is the assessment of this group: The estimated cost is 20 to 35 billion, but it is a long time before the station rises. A decision must be made, an organization, a design, an application for permission, an invitation, and finally a building. Even if we were to decide to leave today, we'll have eight years before it's in use. Of course, eight years are involved - the context needs to be examined when considering the length of time. This was quoted by Helgi Þór son of Ingason, Project Manager, and editor of the work group report, in order to be maintained. However, it describes that the station would hardly be functioning until after eight years. The cost estimate is similar to that of what we had set the lower limit. We set out to 1,8◯22 billion there, but the work force is looking at 2,935 billion. In any case, there is an opportunity for the council to speed up this process and to support it by means of the advice available. This is a complex process in terms of transport that needs to be carried out by this waste, the construction of transport, possible coastal conditions, and other factors to be considered. I think it would be a good thing for the council to support this project and try to speed up the work ahead of them, and with the GAJA campaign in mind, I think it might be possible that this project had a good backing of the council and the Supreme Court. Environment, energy and climate ministers. In view of the above, we suggest that a minister be assigned to check out the possibility of building a high - tech dump. Such a station could treat cremated waste from the whole country. Following the events, consider comparing the benefits of building a high - tech dump with other options for waste disposal. The survey would determine which members, countries, communities, or other peoples would be involved in the construction and operation of such stations, the size and location of the facility, and the practicality of building it. taking into account the transport of waste between parts of the country. It is important initially to investigate the co-operation of all your partners to the project, but rural society determines the structure of household waste and waste management and the handling of waste in its area. At the same time, the price for waste needs to be determined and the amount and quantity of municipal currency needed to pay. Thus, the benefits and defects of the construction and operations of such stations would be checked for any new disposal options and are intended to be used. They would also investigate the electricity and heat production that such a station could turn down and sell. A minister is expected to present the results of the survey by the General of the Council by April 1, 2022, says here. But as I came in at the beginning of my speech, we motioners have an understanding that there might be a slight delay but that within the council that is now being carried out, a minister presented his findings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u148	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter and this proposal to the attention. I think we share a lot of interest in the waste and waste status of the country, and I think that it took us a very long time to take these matters seriously, especially in view of the extent of waste waste disposal leading to a major climate impact. And just because I've been reading here another fine report with this suggestion, I'd like to point out one thing, it's referred even to. In a national waste management program, which last June replaced it with a phenomenon called a system of recycling, a policy that just takes a step into the future and was performed at the scene of the Environment Ministry at that time. In this context, we share completely the opinion presented in the report, with the permission of a president, which says: ▪ It is important that Icelanders take steps to recycle as much of the waste as possible and spend the remainder in the way that has fallen to protect nature and environment. That is where we agree completely. Regarding the incinerator feature specifically, which I do not deny may be a possibility of: A senator's concern with me is that it can also slow down what needs to be done, that people reinvigorate and renew as much as possible instead of relying on incineration?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think there's a balance there. This is a combination of wills to classify and renovate and cost of waste disposal, whether for incineration or re-use or so on the streets, so I think this balance will develop in the conventional way, as it were. To answer the question directly, I do not worry that this will reduce the motivation to support classification or reduce unwanted waste disposal pathways. And, in any case, when they have gone through that process, they produce an excess of tons that could be more efficient than incineration. But I don't think this is a big problem in the picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. So I share with the senator and others that I'm not quite as convinced and only worried about this and think that worth looking at the work that was done in the history of former environmental and resource ministers for the recycling of the economy and its induction, and merely finding out what ideologies are to the core. It is precisely because we return to the cycle what we can certainly use again, and we do not contribute to the use of ways that we can avoid this. If we didn't say that, it's absolutely necessary to drain garbage, and we had to run, for example. that is, in view of the conditions created in Skavetir following the cyclic infections last summer, which was extremely difficult and tragic for very many people. The work had to be done quickly and safely, but the incinerator was not there. We didn't have a chance to burn because it was a so-called diseased waste that had to be burned. But with a reference to the circle wind and the circle idea of making sure that we take what we've taken out of the natural world as well as put it back into the circle and in the spirit of the writer who says in the paper and I read up earlier, I'll ask: "See why." A senator of some other means to encourage you to do so rather than attack the size of a high-tech building? That is certainly a good idea, I'm not making it down, but I can have, like my past concerns, the motivation that here we are going to burn rather than return to the cycle what needs to be returned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u151	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. No doubt there are a number of options worth considering, but the proposed suggestions are available, and I gave a court order in this case, making it possible for high - tech research to be examined to the end. I have a feeling that I am less concerned about the temptation that I think is caused. A senator is trying to describe here in order not to sort out what is possible to be classed as a redesignor. The cost of waste management and waste disposal, the cost to end users, is calculated to reflect the real cost. So I think this problem, if we call it, will be solved by the fact that some balance would occur between the cost of waste management, whether it is in homes or companies, and providing cremating materials to the waste treatment stations as discussed here. I just don't trust myself here and now to go into deep discussion about other options. But I think that, in any case, it's necessary to look at this and to have a good look at it. A senator has reviewed the situation in connection with the moaning, which has developed in recent years, which has simply been a terrible and terrible situation that the system is unable to cope with such a shock. But just like that to zoom it out, I think that that's the problem. A senator describes the problem of moral uncleanness as the process of currency will be solved by means of the process of disposal of waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u152	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the interpretation of the court's request for a poll on the meaning of food carbon trajectory. My nobles in this matter are Orri Páll Jóhannsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdóttir, Jódís Skúladóttir, Bjarni Jónsson, Tómas A. Tómasson, Dírður Ingi Pétursson, Frímann Frän Magnússon and Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir. The suggestion involves hiding the highest. Food Minister to follow up a report of food markings with a specific assessment of the meaning of food carbon dioxide. It is suggested that a joint screening of food carbon lines, domestic and foreign alike, will be performed. The aim of the proposal is to help consumers assess the level of carbon dioxide, which is in line with government food policy that measures that, by permission of a president, recommend the availability of consumers to the correct information on the origin, production, and environmental effects of food 6.5. There is quite a story to the Conspiracy proposal, but it is here reassigned with considerable change. The first candidate for the proposal directed a inquiry to the then marine emissary and agricultural minister, Júlíusson Þór, at a 149th Council of Food Carbon Records. There a minister was asked about the Ministry's plan on the meaning of a carbon track. The answer showed that a group on the meaning of food was at work that should include to examine this factor. This group of workers received a detailed report on September 9, 2020. The purpose of the report was, with the permission of the President, to better ensure the right of consumers for information on origin, production, food drug use and environmental effects, as well as to help inform consumers and companies more about their rights and duties according to international commitments. In terms of the meaning of carbon spores, this is the opportunity to introduce this, since, by permission of the President, the government has taken an ambitious commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and could provide information on food and meals as a means of reaching its goals. Here in this hall, we have discussed the broad and wide climate issues, and most of us agree that the climate problem is the largest solution of our day, although the solutions we focus on may be different. I believe and hope that we all agree that reducing our carbon strides is a step in the right direction. I also believe that the community as a whole will benefit from more practical and specific meanings. Thus, food markings in general have developed rapidly in recent decades, and the meaning of a carbon track is a logical continuation of the consumer's information requirements. Iceland's carbon sigma is the largest item ever found in the world. Food is a major part of the household's carbon tracks, between 10 and 30%. Food is about 68% from production, but transport accounts for about 5%. To respond to the commitments we have made to emissions, we need to try to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas from production as well as the consumption of products that are derived from Iceland. Then, in 2040 C.E., the government's policy that Iceland will become a non-carbon objector is connected with food. The meaning of a diet's carbon track is a huge climate, but it is also a consumer issue, since consumers have called for a clearer meaning on foods that enable them to choose environmentally friendly advantages. A low level of carbon is where consumers look. Many consumers are aware of the need to reduce consumption-related emissions, but they simply simply lack the information to perform it. A new Food Ministry has now been developed, but at the same time, there are a huge number of parishes developing in review policies on domestic food production. V.E.G. The minister of the seminars has already stressed the importance of climate - related diets and the increased production of vegetables in the region and other foods within the country. It's just as important to ensure our food and food security here in the country for the future. A respectable president. It is long time to plan that the meaning of food carbon lines and other parts of the world sets a precedent for this. I believe that such markings will likely be increasingly taken up as consumers' requirements for profit production increase. I'd especially like to draw the meaning of a carbon track called Eco-Score, which has, among other things, been called the Eco-Score. being recorded in Belgium, France, and Germany. Eco-Score, based on Nutri-Score, is a nutritional marker designed to make it easier for consumers to select better food. Therapeutic drug monitoring is a positive nutritional effect, i.e. quantity of fruit, vegetables, peanuts, fibres, and protein and negative nutritional effects, such as calories, sugar, saturated fatty acids, and salt in each 100 grams. Scores are set for positive and negative factors, and by a certain algorithm the score is defined. The score A is the highest, and E is the lowest, and the score is interpreted by color code which makes it easy for consumer to compare products within the same category. So, Eco-Score is based on the same methodology, but it's based on the scoreline on carbon track production and transport and packaging. I specifically mention this because I think it would be preferable for us to work with a standard which is clear and based on accurate methodology, although it would certainly be the role of those who perform the request for a decision in this regard. In many areas, companies have taken out the markings of their carbon lines, and they also have a variety of calculators that enable consumers to calculate their carbon track, even though it is basically not based on local or validated information. Containment marks are often eliminated, so they are rarely compatible and may not be able to withstand any comparison between comparable products and localities. It is in my opinion that consumers are not in the best interests of being here a lot of meanings from different sources with conflicting methodologies because while it is certainly great for companies to show community responsibility and initiative in the sense of their lips, it is in my opinion that the public's project to create a clear framework which makes it easier for people to choose the most sustainable advantage. Clearly, the introduction to food carbon lines has to be based on a strong background of information and data on the average disposition of different products, with considerable effort being made to produce signals that give sufficient clear information to consumers. Such markings must be accurate and preferably validated, the most important thing is that they are uniform and are based on solid information about real emissions. Green accounting is a basis for which many companies of the region have introduced their chain of manufacture, and the markings of carbon tracks can build on that well - founded foundation. It is important that exporting the meaning of a carbon track is designed to serve its purpose, to give consumers really a picture of carbon tracks. With the approval of the proposal, important steps would be taken to support the government's climate targets as well as Iceland's food policy until 2030 and the government's shopping policy on sustainable shopping. At the same time, Icelandic consumers, producers, and sellers would take part in reaching them. A respectable president. After the previous discussion, I suggest that the Council's resolution be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u153	A respectable president. For nearly two years now, we've been standing in a storm craze of crown virus, like the whole world. We here in Iceland have taken various steps to deal with the visitor, to take action that maintains the nature of the situation, according to the nature of individuals, institutions, and professional drivers. We have spent billions of dollars on our health system. We've had some new actions that go out to measure the crown virus, try people out again. We've sent people to solitary confinement, people under siege, job drivers have had to close their operations or severely reduce them. All of this, of course, is based on the fact that we have been dealing with epidemics, a highly contagious disease that has killed many. In 2020, at the General Assembly, we discussed changes in the treatment laws. At that time, we were inside the Korean epidemic, and a minister recommended specific changes in the law to cope with the epidemic that we were facing. At that time, I was talked about, both with 1st and 2rd. on that matter, the need to take action that brought about a measure of individual freedom would be necessary in some way to make such a decision. I must admit, Madam President, that I did not know exactly the best way to do this. However, I mentioned in the discussion the route between the Norwegian and Danir. As a result, the Norwegians undertook a form of emergency laws in connection with the Republic of Korea and when a minister published a political rule, the Norwegian Council may object to the Regulation, and if more than 1/3 members of Congress send a letter to the Parliament, the Regulation will simply fail. In Denmark, a minister should present his proposal to a health committee or a special pandemic committee, and the Committee needs to agree with the proposals for them to become valid. I mentioned this in both my discussions about the treatment laws and later in conversation with the local authorities at the highest level. Minister of health, Jesgi Svavarsdóttir. The answers I always received were that it did not match Iceland's board of directors. We would have given a minister authority to issue a ruling order, at least no tradition and could not be corrected for the need for regulations so as to gain approval at the council. Now I'm not legal, chief. President, but I've been thinking about how we can get to this. At the time I was most concerned with this, I did not know any precedent in our approach here at the council, but I specifically mentioned the sale of the bank. Funds have been authorized for financial ministers for many years to sell the state's holdings in banks. Yet, there is a very specific law on the way it would be done. This is because it should be discussed with both the Secret Bank and the Economic and Business Committee, with a report and the like. With the law, the council was written completely on that subject. Selling a bank isn't like dealing with a pandemic, I'm not trying to compare it, I was just trying to find a way. Selling a bank can be a long way of life, so it is not complicated, nor is it unusual that the council would have a very good approach to it. In the Economic and Business Committee, we were given a last term law, now I don't even remember what the law is, but it turned to currency. In that law, we were creating a legal warrant for a minister to reimburse a currency head. Of course, a very clear line on what would be required was written into the Law, what danger would be imminent in order for a minister to respond in this way. During the council, there was also much discussion about the fact that one minister should not be able to take so much action without consulting the National Parliament. So the discussion ended up with us in the Economic and Business Committee that we set up a law that, in the event that a minister at any time came to see it as if the need for currency heads were needed -- I sincerely hope that it never happens - would need the highest power. Ministers to discuss their plans for economic and business committees before coming and also report to the council on their first chance. So that's the approach I'm going to proceed with here, Madam President. In fact, in this bill for the legislation on the change in disease control law, I'm writing into the law that the Ministers' intention to issue a regulations that are truly authorized by the Center for Disease Control - we're dealing with both 12 and 13. The law that has to do with disease prevention within the country and on the other hand, cross-border treatments should be introduced by the minister to his plan on a welfare committee before these restrictions take effect, in fact, to prevent them from being aware that it is currently ◯, or as soon as possible, it is not available. And if a minister's rules should introduce a welfare committee related to this were put in place, the highest level is to be set. A secretary will report to the General as soon as possible, which will provide a detailed reason for the need for these rules. By this I believe that it is certain that a minister would not operate in a limited number of disease prevention operations unless he sensed that there was a great deal of support here at the council. Some have wondered why it is simply not possible to follow our neighbors, Danir, and simply say that the welfare committee has to agree with them. I look forward to the discussion that can arise on the committee and meet with the lawyers who can recommend it. Congress to see if it really is possible. According to what I traced earlier, according to my talks with the minister and the discussion that took place on the welfare committee during the last term, most people felt that it was a bad time. I believe this is at least a way of getting closer to what I know has been a call for a lot of senators. It is only natural for the democratic elected council to have a better access to information, reasoning, and conversation about the need to put on disease prevention. I'm going to make it clear, a respectable president, that, as shown in the report on this bill, I believe that therapy must always be based on medical evaluation. On the other hand, when such measures are taken and carried out for a long time, there are, of course, other viewpoints that need to be considered. They may also be medical and health - care, public health issues that we have discussed frequently in this room, the effects these may have on our young people, people who are isolated at home, depression, and people who are unable to receive necessary medical care because the health system is put together during a pandemic. But it can also be an economic impact, and it has truly been felt in this epidemic and has responded by various measures. A respectable president. I reiterate the importance of this bill here, I'm not saying that a psychiatrist is unnecessary or listening to our leading scientists, doctors, and those who know best about these matters. I'm simply saying that it's natural for me to think that this information and conversation are being received directly into the vat. That way, I imagined that when a surgeon gives a medical reminder to a health minister, it would be with the first action of a health minister, after studying the memo and its contents, to meet with a health committee, to have the conversation with the committee. I could well imagine that a health - care committee would also call a psychiatrist or other experts in that area. If a minister then decides to implement a Regulation in accordance with the form, as has now been tested in this epidemic, then the Senate will also have a written report with logical support for this decision. I mentioned it earlier that I had an excellent conversation with the highest level. A health minister we have here and have actually had quite a regular conversation with a health minister who is fine with him - but we, as elected members of the Parliament, have no more data than a memo that suggests how we are going to get out of this epidemic. Senators' knowledge of reasons and reasons for decisions I consider to be little or nothing. I find it completely unacceptable when we experience that for about two years the public has placed such burdensome restrictions on society as far as the council did not come up with a real discussion of its need. In fact, I believe that if the law had actually been like this when we last supplied them here, action would have been in many ways comparable to what they were, at least to the first part of our struggle. At any rate, I felt that there was a lot of conjugal agreement, and people sensed the need to take action. Let us also recall that at that point the nation was unvaccinated, our knowledge of the crown virus was very low, and all we saw were horrors from abroad that were not even received into hospitals. They had to go back to their homes because the health system in these lands was overworked and could not care for their duties at all. Fortunately, we were able to protect our health system, and I think our health systems have been successful in dealing with this epidemic, despite the tremendous pressures on employees in every part of the world, but, fortunately, our activities have been successful in dealing with the epidemic and the measures that have taken. However, there has been a more critical discussion of the need for therapeutic measures. I think it's just good. I think it's healthy that the discussion is taken. But I would have liked to have that discussion taken at the same time that such rules are being made. It may also have been possible that this discussion could have been much more informed here at the council if the senators had had access to the information that a minister is receiving at any given time through the welfare committee and with a report that a minister would write here to the council. It's like the highest. Of course, in recent discussions, a minister has more information and information but appears in a note published by a psychiatrist and the public and members of the council have been able to carry out at all times, I think, based on a memo that has been based on a memo. A respectable president. I think this way I'm here measuring would strengthen the health minister in decision-making on how to react to disease conditions. I think that would only strengthen our democratic career and the democratic election for Congress. I would like to mention, though, that the bill is a change in the treatment laws of infection, and there is in parentheses: a source of information to the Generalis, that is something a member of the Parliament felt appropriate. I'd rather say it's a conference. I'm also going to assume that on this bill, all members of the Independence Party, except those who serve as Ministers, or who are the president of the council, are actually members of the Parliament. This is Ásmundur Friðriksson, Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Þórarinsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdot, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Sverrisdóttir Sveririsdir, Friðbertsson, Óli Kárason Kádálsson, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason. Thus, it can be said that we have joined together on this panel bill. Also, it is to say that some may have wanted to go further, but at the beginning of my talk, I considered it why I decided to approach it in this way. I see at the top. Minister has now entered a consultation guide to the bill for changes in Disease Control. There, a minister is required to inform the welfare committee on his post Regulations. The wording here is the way he should do it before the Regulation takes effect or as soon as possible. I think it matters. I think it's important. I can also see why. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson has provided a bill along with other members of Parliaments for changes in the treatment of disease and wants to go further. I look forward to talking about it, and I think it's gonna be a good idea for a health committee to look at different ways. But I've heard of some agreements that the council needs to get more and more involved with these decisions. At the end, I'd like to say that we may be prone to discuss this just as the Covid situation, which I hope is just over and hopefully Covid is gone and will never come back. Unfortunately, there will very likely come again some comparable situation, perhaps not quite like this. We're dealing with the treatment laws, and I'm sure we've all learned at this time how important it is to have such tools and tools in the treatment - prevention laws as well as all the infrastructure that are around the Centers for Disease Control. So I think it's important for us to remember that we're not just talking about some Covid we're going to say goodbye to but, for a long time, about how the environment should be around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u154	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Buttti-Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for putting up this matter. It is true that, indeed, after the increase in the assembly in these matters has already been called, and I was shocked. A senator feels quite well why there are so many reasons to do so. I feel that way myself, and I'm like a dog. A senator came in, had a case established, along with my members of the Council Assembly Convention, which goes further, requiring that the council have to confirm the limitations on which they have been established. If you don't mind me asking why. A senator: Does she feel that it is impossible to go beyond what she does in her own case? You see, I'd judge by the fact that the members of the Independence Party are, at least. Some, the view that it should go further. Does she see any ill feelings about going beyond this and taking these matters into the chamber itself, the seminary?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u155	A respectable president. As I was trying to trace here, I wished for it to 1st. ... theprecaution of the disease law in its own time. The welfare committee would consider how the council or the committee could confirm such regulations or how the coming of the Council might be more important. When that was the case, then the answer came from a committee. The vice president of the Committee, therefore, so that there had been much discussion about this, I did not sit on the welfare committee at the time, and it would have been their assessment that it was contrary to our board of directors, i.e. that the Council could not confirm regulations. Then this law of regular reporting came into place, and it was concluded by the council that it was the way we would go, to have regular discussions with the Minister on the status of the matter. I'd be glad it could go further, as I said before. I'm not the law itself, and I think this would be just a fun challenge for our major jurists to think about it. An idea that has, in fact, proved that it would have to be done on the matter each time. [[The president calls.]] However, regulations such as this are permitted by the minister under the law, and we have at least never had the procedure that the Council confirmed such regulations as Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u156	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's mouth is great for hers here in answer. This is something that we need to figure out, how far we can go, and of course how far men want to go. I find the self-concerned debate taking place right now. In fact, you can see what I'm going to do better in a talk afterwards, on the bill now in my talk march, as the top. The health minister has already committed, that it is mentioned in a report that this is really just a professional scientific decision at all times. It's almost written as if there's no politics in it, which, of course, is not true. We've become so accustomed to hanging it all on a pedophile doctor, Þórólfur, that many people think there's no politics in it. Of course, this is a government decision, and it is a health minister who controls it, and there is now, rather, political conflict within the government over how far it should go. I also wanted to ask you what. Councilman: Which of these are the prosecuting measures political in nature or professional or a combination of these? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. This is exactly the question about how you react: Is it politics, or is it about health and science? A former government was criticized by certain authorities at the beginning of the Korean epidemic for having scientists answer for operations. I said it's got a lot of politics in it. Politicalism involved listening to scientists. This was the time we knew little or nothing about the crown virus epidemic. I thought it was right, and I supported those actions. Thus, our trident appeared as a face-to-face reaction to this visitor, and the government or the local minister is then revealed in the economic actions we intended to take on the situation. But when you're a little further into this epidemic, I understand every bit of it. A senator may be leaving, and that is the very question when we are in the process for a long time, how we react again, which is always more difficult. Also, I wanted to add just one reason why I'm going this way, and it was pointed out that this could not go before the council, is that the reaction needs to be very quick when an outbreak occurs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I didn't go any further on my bill, so if there's any danger, I'd be able to take immediate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u158	Hv. Congress officials are reminded that when the talk period is shortened for one minute, it is only natural to respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u159	Madam President. I thank you for your presentation. If the problem with the administrative element is that the council does not confirm the Regulation, then there must be a solution to it, as an authority in question, by saying that a minister is obliged to submit it in the form of a synonym or something. We know such an arrangement, e.g. When a person receives an approved local sanctum, she needs to be confirmed to the court within a certain period of time. So all I believe is that there's a rotten solution to this. But I'd like to ask why. paritaprevir But the Haraldsdóttir, is now the whole party of Independence Party enthusiasts on this proposal, outside of the Minister and President of the Generals, and the Independence Party is the largest group in this administrative business: did the health minister refuse to use this procedure, because it is actually a conversation with a health committee as it is put here? They talked to the highest. A minister to perform this procedure, away from the contributions of this case or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. And thanking a senator for reminding us that the independence party is the largest category in the council. Hv. A senator asks if the highest. A minister refused to perform this procedure. No, I don't know how to do that. I talked it over with my colleagues, as I usually do now, before I presented this matter and the highest. Of course, the minister had nothing to do with it to check that I did such a thing. I realized that the treatment law was being revised, but I wanted to get these views and ideas into that process. But just as I traced earlier, this conversation took place when we last reviewed the treatment laws. I don't know why. A senator came into that discussion or what the focus was on a central welfare committee, but I know that we were at least a few of the members of the Independence Party who discussed this and then pondered the approach. Then it's about how we can deal with such people immediately and have extensive action at the same time as we're going to have some form of conversation with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u161	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. In view of the situation that the Independence Party has the opportunity to resist and say, "Hey, now we do it this way, I think that this great proposal, on which all the members of the Independence Party are on, which I think is, unfortunately, a little out of the way -- I think that the proposal for the Parliaments is much better than here, but this is the right way - wasn't the way of it just to be done. That's what I find so strange. Now we've been in this situation for almost two years. How is it that the information supply to the council is still as poor as it is if we bear in mind that all members of the Independence Party seem to be that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. I don't think the information offering to the council was bad, considering the law we're working on. I know that the minister has always responded, whether it is the current supreme. A health minister or former health minister, a total of the members of the council or a health committee at the time. And I know why. The welfare committee has now held several meetings on this matter. Here we agreed on changes to the disease laws that expected the process we've been working for. Then these views were certainly brought forward, but the conclusion was to respond in a way that a minister would come to the house and consult us in some form of conversation, very regularly. I had called for these changes in the conversation with the highest. Minister. I had become anxious, so I decided to contribute this bill. Hv. A senator asks: Is it possible to go further? Is there any solution to that? I haven't found it yet, but I expect it. That is why we have this great assembly, and the matter goes on for three discussions, so if you can find a better solution for the council to join together on, then that is just the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u163	A respectable president. This is a bill, which is intended for the introduction of the Minister of Disease Control for one certain Senate Committee that is not able to have anything to do with the protection restrictions of saying rather than the General Assembly. I think it's a very, very, very, very, very nasty bill, I must say. After various statements by members of this party, I'm surprised to see how far this is going. I myself believe that it is very important that we first act as law in order to ensure that all the extreme burden of control will need confirmation of the Council of Congress or that the Council of Congress within a period of time following the application of the European Commission's standards. I don't think it's some sort of governmental impossible idea that regulations are placed before the council. There is no need for regulations, it can be done in the form of a synonym, as requested by Reunion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether she is not concerned that this bill can be established in a most unfortunate structure, with a shaman.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I'm so happy for what I hear from what I hear. Because I have to admit that this isn't the spirit I've felt I've heard here from members of the United States until now. I have rather sensed their words, so they feel that these decisions are really just for the home of a psychiatrist and that they live there. But on the other hand: Is this a sham? No, I don't think so, no more than any other consultation. I appreciate that it would be really difficult for a health minister to come into a health committee where members of that committee would resist the introduction and there would be discussed, and then plan to explain to the council why he is going to react in this way, knowing that the council would be against it in general. I think this is a very good way to increase the conversation, the extra discussion. I think it's a good way to get to the top. Ministers can ensure political solidarity on the decisions they are making and I think this is a democratic way. [[The president calls.]] But if you do. A senator has an even better idea, so I'm willing to listen to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u165	Madam President. Of course, our government is such that the responsibility for the limitations of the Constitutionary rights can never lie alone with experts, it lies with democratic elected representatives. That's for damn sure. And if any. A senator may think that the United States ever spoke to others but that they are democratic elected representatives, whether ministers or members of Congress, who will fulfill that responsibility is some major misunderstanding. I'd like to remind you not to. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir spoke very highly here during the last term, when she was leading a welfare committee, that the way I mentioned earlier would be that it would be necessary to make some kind of decisions that would be made under the General Assembly within a certain period of time. I'm celebrating the fine bill of the House of Parliament on this thing. And this is the way I believe it is very important that we will be here in a spring review of the sterilization laws. [[The president calls.]] I hope so. A senator would agree with me on this, and I don't believe that the members of the Independence Party are ours, and we can agree on it, and at last we can adopt the language at hand. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir lived here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u166	A respectable president. I simply repeat again and again what I have said: If the members of the council come up with a better idea that can withstand our government ship and our lawyers can agree, I am truly ready to listen. I'm just glad that the bill mentioned here will appear at the council and be treated for the council. But just to reiterate the discussion that was here, a review of antiseptic laws at the time, it is the reason that it is written into the law that the action is thought to be very urgent. I referred to my speech earlier in the head of currency. In some respects, that is comparable. There are some provisions to be taken, then out of the market, in a very shameful way. That's why I've used the same approach we've made at the council, and that's the suggestion I put on the table and suggest we talk about it. I repeat again and again that if you have another idea that is even better, I am truly willing to listen. Of course, the big issue is that disease laws are still open, and we can deal with the dangers that arise, but at the same time we want to provide democratic authority and democratic discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u167	President. I think this is a very interesting thing because it is already a legal obligation for the government to back up their decisions, and three members of the Committee can ask for an initiative and call for evidence, that's no problem, and the government has to answer within a week according to Congress law. I don't know exactly what this is about. What has really been the problem is that even though we follow the rules we are already on, a third of the committee can ask for data from governments or take initiatives, it is just closed or not answered or answered badly. That's very common. These are closed by book reviews, and that is the experience since the last term. Perhaps a special law is needed to make this clearer, but I don't see that somehow it will improve the culture around which the council's waitings are answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u168	A respectable president. I look at the experiences we've had here in the last two years where I've really had my knowledge from, for example, as a senator. In the afternoon of the radio, where a psychiatrist is attending an interview, he is writing a memo that he is speaking for the other. As a result, when the micron enters the minister's office and walks out of the House of Ministers, the question is: Is it true that the micron is in fortified now? What are we going to get into? It's been a bit of a mantran in society. I think we're completely out of the way as a community in that subject. I can see that the process was the way it would be that instead of running on the steps outside the minister's farm, there's a conversation on the committee where it will be. Councilmen may call for evidence and support for decisions, and this is a report. I think it's an additional transparency, that brings us into our role as democratic elected agents when such burdensome measures are being placed on our society, which, of course, I hope we don't have to go to general.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u169	President. This is exactly what Porta's council has been calling for all this epidemic, and we've never been answered. In fact, in the oral report of a minister earlier today, he admitted that it was very much based on the feeling and experience of those who had worked on it every day for the past two years, not for example. in the field analyses that if we place limits from 30 to 50 instead of 30 to 100, the number of infections will increase by 500 per day or so. That is why there are 50, not 100. We'll never get an explanation like that, even if we ask for it. I don't know what this matter is adding, for it is already the government's duty to back up their decisions. When we ask for information, just pull a document out of a drawer and place it on the council table. But this is not done because the document does not exist. Still, make it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. Now I don't quite realize if the senator is primarily frustrated that the document doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u172	Yes, I can hear it at what. Senator. That it's not about that it's such a shitty way that I'm planning on getting here. However, in the absence of these analyses, such as what they are, there is no evidence. I believe that if a member of the council needs to meet with members of the Generals and write a detailed report of what is being done, it must strengthen the health authorities. There must be increased pressure on the fact that this document would exist and that document would be published, making decisions based on such imaging analyses and the knowledge that has been collected. In fact, that is the requirement. So I wonder, " Am I? ' A senator pleased with the situation as it has been? No, I can't hear you. But count 'em why. A senator that this case would not add? Neither? No, okay. At least I'm trying to do my part to make things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u173	President. I think it is of utmost importance in a good democracy that you try to develop that all the security valves available are both there and that they are not met by unnecessary suspicion of character and players at one time. I think that in many ways we have done very well in this epidemic, messages, and goals were clear at the start of an epidemic, and on every scale we did well, which we can be proud of. I think it's a sin, however, that we lost, in my opinion, a little control over the discussion that you don't want to listen to science and our best people in that science and that something is political. In my knowledge, it can go together very well and it's very desirable to go together, since everything is political, nothing can be totally undistracted. As it was in the past, politics, of course, has all responsibility. Thus, it is totally normal that politics have access to the action that needs to be taken, but of course, with virtually every other political assignment, it is based on the best data available to our best people. I understand this case so that there is an effort to achieve more link, which I think has been missing the last two years, a clearer connection with the democratic elected representatives of the nation to make a better impression on a major operation when people are being limited to freedom. Despite the fact that most of the evidences were necessary, it is bad that there was a prerogative between those responsible, the people who chose them to bear that responsibility and action themselves. Hv. paritaprevir The humor of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was very comfortable with this case. I have that feeling, although I haven't been in this house for a long time, that the discussion as it was here could have been impossible a year ago, now I don't talk about two years ago, and I celebrate it. I think it's a sign that we're all seeing the end of this situation, would like to try to break down and think about the future how we want things to be if we're so boring that we're back in this situation, maybe we're allowing us to look more objective and maybe with a little more criticism, which is just normal, on how we want to have this system. I'm glad you're here. As mentioned earlier, there are some members of the Independence Party who are on this bill who would have liked to go further. I can accept that I am one of those senators. However, I think at this point it may not be a reason to belittle that if there is uncertainty as to what is being done in such a situation, it is just the situation. I heard the discussion earlier, and I understand it very well, and I agree with it. Haraldsdóttir I believe that's all I'm concerned about, I hear it in this discussion, however it may be, that democratic elected senators in this hall have more to say about these actions. Then there will be a legal and administrative agreement. I'm going to make it clear right now that I'm not a human being to reason with it, that there are smarter people who would probably be better off and I'll agree with it. paritaprevir My Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's joke that it would no doubt be beneficial for them to come before the committee to discuss this. That interaction has to come up, and of course it has to be remembered that the prince's involvement with democracy is important. Of course, it is important to talk about epidemics that effective action can be taken more quickly. I think that in the next few weeks, when we look at this case and the subject that has already been mentioned, the bill of Congress Action that I think seems fine, they're warning that it just needs to look at what's available in it, we need to evaluate the best way to get this discussion and after events of decision making or some sort of agreement, or what it's done since then, in this chamber. I think that would be very good. I agree with what. paritaprevir Bryndís thing about the Haraldsdóttir, I'm ready for all that conversation about how it's done best. Other than that, I think this is a very positive step. It is also a message to the future that the council has more access, and I think it is very successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u174	Madam President. I just want to thank you for a very good speech, and I agree with many of the points presented here. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate would agree with the view that changing the treatment laws should be taken into consideration, as is done in some areas in neighboring countries, that any extreme burden of disease restrictions would be required to be agreed with either the General Assembly or the Parliament, and whether or not. A senator may wish to support either the bill or the modification proposal of that material in a spring review of disease prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u175	Madam President. Thank you for your excellent counter-regulated response. The short answer is, and then I repeat what was presented in my speech earlier: Yes. Given that we find an agreement between some sort of consent or the decision of a democratic elected representative, their arrival, and that there must be room if some sort of inhibitor must be taken even within some hour, if we can imagine such a terrible situation, but it could happen. So I think there's gonna be a little interaction between them. I think it would be irresponsible to make an irreprehensible requirement to call a body of Congress completely out of the circumstances, but if you could find an interaction there, I think it might be useful. Otherly -- now I don't exactly remember what was said than I repeat: If you can find a surface on that government-like which may be the meaning of being a little more complicated than it sounds, I'm not going to be a judge of it but accept a discussion about it, if it can withstand the administrative authority that there is a state of Congress against the Minister, then I'll repeat that I'm ready for it. It's the two things that just need to get together. But the short answer is: Yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u176	A respectable president. It was a satisfying answer, and I look forward to fighting for change in this reality with reason. Senator. I'm surprised that there was no greater sound for this in the Independence Party class at all, so often after large statements during the past few months. I think that a lot of people who have been talking this thing for a long time would've wanted more support, e.g. ... inthelastpricedtime. It's just the best part, I think. Yeah, I'm just gonna say good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u177	Madam President. I think after a second answer. paritaprevir JóhannPáll just Jóhannsson, " Thank you, and I'll see you later in these discussions. '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u178	President. I'm just going to pull ashore with what I indicated earlier. It would certainly be more convenient to keep this law in law, but that does not mean that I think it will produce any results. It would be only a larger hammer that would be useful for the normal tool it has to obtain the exact same information or at least to ask for the exact same information. Hv. A senator here talked about her responsibility and where she's in it. It's just that I feel like this is about where the European Commission and legislatures are, if that's the case, or if that's the case. to have confirmation of decision-making or regulations in this chamber. I don't quite understand it because when it comes to making decisions that will even affect their future surveillance role. During the last term, we experienced the fact that regulations were not supported by law. There was just the right way to go in the judiciary. If the council had signed such a directive, I don't know exactly where we were. The situation is now that it is clear that a minister is responsible for these issues and for these decisions in all the traditional ways in which the minister responsibility and the like. But what I've experienced is that this responsibility has been cast, at any rate, on the trident side of their coming and speaking for decisions. And the responsibility, as the Chairman of the Independence Party has spoken, that it is a legal obligation to lift the boundaries when they are no longer needed, has been over the whole time, which the Ministers need to take into account more things than just the rights of the disease. [[The president calls.]] There are many things that need to be viewed, but they have not done so, and that may be something that this matter can fix. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u179	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think we've learned a lot over the past two years about laws and responsibilities and the boundaries between them. I think it's possible to say that this is a law that was a little off the corner of the past few years. This has certainly not been something we needed to be aware of. As the senator well attributed, certain sources came to light, signed, and settled, as we require in our fine society. With all due respect, I don't agree that the government has turned down responsibility for what has been done here for the past two years, it can be said that many things were done well, but there is something else that may be asked. To me, it is completely explained that the minister of the local seminary is responsible for that class. I understand that there may be some strange things about which the government is more like a whole, but there's a very large ministerial case in the affairs of this country, where many people might put a question mark on, but it's the case. I also agree that it is perfectly clear that there is more to it than just the treatments. We've got a DC who's responsible for preventing the disease. But it is the minister himself who is certainly more responsible than solely disease prevention, just in agreement. But I may not agree that the ministers in question threw that responsibility away.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u180	A respectable president. I say: In a sense, throwing away the responsibility in a sense exactly by not being in charge of disease - prevention procedures but by being trident there, and from the point of view that much more views have not been taken into account than just the path of disease. We have never had a further analysis of how the epidemic affects other populations, but only those who might be affected by Covid, or on the health system as the pressure there is. There I feel that I lack the responsibility to support that fact, for example. if you do not follow the advice of a physiologist but do something else. There may be a number of perplexing reasons. But the reason is not laid, e.g. that people have wanted to protect high school students from a type of stress or something similar. This is the kind of responsibility that I mean to neglect, and that's how they threw away the responsibility and put it solely on the preventative device.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u181	Madam President. Yeah, throw something off your face. I'm not going to belittle it. It might seem that way to someone. But I'm going to allow myself to think that it wasn't what led to those times. On the contrary, I think what had been awake to officials at that time was showing this condition and the scientists who had the responsibility of leading us through this, at least the first steps, respect, and the exact amount of politics, from this first public defense reaction, since we were in danger of being here in some sort of danger. On the other hand, I think that we may have taken a little too much steps in this, and we've become too involved in politics, too far away.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u182	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir for a very nice speech. It contained a number of key elements that I feel need to consider in this discussion and use a term of great importance, i.e. A safety valve. We're with the General, and we're not only responsible for being lawgivers and financiers, and all of that, but the Senate also has a role in monitoring the executives. I'm thinking that we've been a little stuck in a conversation that we've got all too much of a particular person, who's certainly responsible and in power, a minister and a psychiatrist, a threesome and all of this. We know this well. I feel that when we're talking about how to change this for a long time, people often lose their sense of urgency that the next time they try, they're not necessarily going to be on the stage. There may be people with a different viewpoint, a totally different viewpoint, a disease - control doctor who is more familiar with the Swedish who took the epidemic quite differently than we did. We could have a health minister who has a completely different view of things than the one who is now sitting or his predecessor. There could be some drummers or whatever. My question, because the word security valve came up is this: If the council is to be a real security valve, if the council is to have a real surveillance role in these matters, where it is being taken entirely by the welfare committee beyond the fact that this is being discussed in the government -- of course, because there are reasons for this, but still there are not many members who are being taken seriously into the everyday lives of people -- it is enough that this is only discussed in the welfare committee beyond that this should be discussed in the government, that there are several members in addition to the members of Congress in addition to the members of the local government? [[The president calls.]] Is that sufficient supervision? Can it be classified as an efficient monitoring of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u183	Madam President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. That's a very good question. I repeat what I came into my speech and what I had to say. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was on the same line. We would like to go as far as can be given a democratically elected General voice and device in this role to the public at such times, when it is possible to get out of a crisis situation, or not a crisis situation, but, rather, when it comes out of control. It's no fun talking about law at this end, it doesn't matter. But I'm not going to belittle it, though, because it's a huge step according to the way we have the arrangement now. Of course, it can be arranged so that it's just a coffee conversation with one of the Senate committees, and it's supposed to be nothing more than that, but we know it in the political world that it's just a Minister's hold. There is a political hold on a minister if he, in this matter we will call a cup of coffee, was aware that he was faced with great opposition and many questions and serious doubts. In that case, it has become harder for the minister to insist on his regulations or what they are. So the answer is: No, not the form. That the shape I'd like to see it work, that we could go further, but that the point is this step that really matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u184	Mr. President. Yes, I'll take to heart the fact that when you say things like this and talk about some kind of coffee in a Senate committee, it can be interpreted as being that you may be minimizing the work being done on the committee. It wasn't my intention to do it, I might have been trying to distinguish between it and having the case here in the chamber, which I actually heard. A senator apparently has a strong desire to do so, considering having it in the Senate committee. But I'd like to ask who, too. A senator about something else. Today, science and the scientific conclusions that we are supposed to produce are fundamental and professional in our approach, but, of course, all countries are dealing with this as they take various measures, but they all look at science in some particular way. Takes it. A senator subject to some form of social tendency to view science and logic as one and political debates, and that these two are somehow incompatible? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've seen nothing else here at the council Hall and in the council committees but that members of Congress are day out and day in, both the council members and the government opposers, listening to evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. He comes in here on such an interesting and interesting subject that I'm very sorry that I have so short time to deal with it. Maybe we'll take this in a coffee chat later. You see, I think this is a very important matter. I believe this project, especially at the beginning of an epidemic, had so much respect for it that they really wanted to dissociate themselves from science. I think that a good mind was behind it and that in many respects was very wise, I don't talk about it if we just think about the world in general and maybe the United States and how things were handled there. On the other hand, I think that that step was a little too far, for politics in this matter, as is true of all others, should be involved in political responsibility. How, though, do you make that decision? Yes, with the best data to the town and the best party at any one time. It's supposed to be together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u186	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for setting up this matter, the members of the Independence Party, and those who have spoken it for bringing this issue. As noted, all of these are members of the Independence Party, who do not serve as Ministers or president of the Generals, so it can be said that the party is doing quite well behind this. I agree with many of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, she did a great deal about how wide this is, when we're talking about preventative measures, all these restrictions, economic measures, it's going down in all of the community's laws. Our education system is underneath, our health systems are really underneath, our whole welfare system. The evidence is clear that larger financial issues have come to the council in recent years, so unexpected, and then falling, so much depends on all of this, and the senator handled it well. For the past few weeks and months, I have thought that there has been a lot of water to understand the importance of making decisions about such massive measures in a situation that lasts for a long time, it cannot be natural that the Congress is out of control. I don't buy the argument that our administration order is so mutilated in stone that some decisions cannot be entered into the council. It just doesn't work. I remind you, the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister just mentioned it here at the council during the days that he thought it would be normal for him to come into this council in the form of a synonym. I listened very hard when I heard that because at the time, we were reassigned to work a case that exactly works out, that the preventative measures are placed before the council in the form of a synonym, and then the council has something to say. Of course, however, it is necessary to give the Commission, Minister and government opportunity to act quickly, as happened in this epidemic first. Therefore, all of that needs to be carefully considered. What I might have wanted to say, because this case is now brought in, it's not that it's not political, you can't say that the prevention and restrictions, the limit of human rights and everything that comes with it is just some professional thing that some government officials should say about how to do and that government ministers should then be extended to them and that the council then has nothing to say about it because it's all too political. It's a very wrong approach, especially in such a long-term situation. Of course, you can understand that there will be a switch in the chain when it happens to be an epidemic. These are some kind of natural disasters, and there needs to be room for a sudden decision-making and a rapid plan of action. But if we're stuck in a place where there can be only 12 other members of the council who are allowed to discuss this at a government meeting, and if we're going to add the council to that, it could be only nine more members of Congress who have a place in the welfare committee, of which there are six members of the board and three in a government position, we've created some kind of system that's got a lot to cut off. 18 Federal Parliamentaries and three government opposers who have something to say on the subject, one in the government and the other on the welfare committee. There's some kind of error in this stuff that's not good. How vital it is to find the right way to allow the Parliament to have some access to decisions and to confirm the possible suggestions laid before the council or to deny them! I'm very hard to believe that we can't speak as we sometimes do, that political discussions here in this room are totally related to all professional matters, that here are members of Congress who can't listen to science, there are only government ministers who can listen to science. Of course, that is not the case. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir put it quite well in his speech earlier. If the council had found anything to do with this epidemic from its beginning, the long - term preventative measures would have been taken after all the epidemics, as well as at least in very large numbers, such as those proposed by a Dentist surgeon to a minister and a minister then usually confirmed somewhat unchanged. I have been very supportive, especially during the epidemic first, that there would be strict restrictions to deal with, to protect the health and life, and to protect the health of the health system. We were not initially vaccinated, and the risk was much higher than since. Then it only changes with the delta variant and the vaccination, there was a slightly different front. At times, I was a little concerned about whether it was going too far here and there, but I always had it in my mind that we still had to be very careful because our health system was all under control. I think most people were a little there. Then it's now in this sonar epidemic that I've got a lot of thinking about it, that measures are on the edge of not meeting all the demands we make of a moderate order, and maybe even an equal. As I mentioned before, we've been a little stuck in that we have a D.A. -- which I have an enormous respect for, and he's put it right in the whole epidemic, an incredibly powerful man, and, of course, the people who are with him too and these people trust you completely 100% -- but out in the community, the debate has evolved so that it's something that he's really going to do, despite its repeated appeals from a psychiatrist himself that he must be disfellowshipped from the snare of being responsible for all of this, that he is only a part of the equation into the equation. Economic factors must then be taken into account. It is important to consider how far we can go from the legal requirements and to consider all of this in the context of the school system and other factors that we all know very well from the discussion. We're a little caught up in taking the discussion out of the characters and players on the stage, and as if I traced it earlier, we can't be there. We've got to think about this for a long time. This must be a safety valve. This must be some kind of backup. If it's hard for humans to imagine politicians in that role, people just have to turn their roles around and give in to the fact that governments want to go a very reckless way when it comes to disease prevention, human rights, and so forth. It is good, then, that both the responsibilities are clear and that the council has an opportunity and a role. But I don't think this case is going far enough. I respect it completely, however, and I know that this is a matter of increasing the importance of the council. I don't buy the argument that you can't find a better arrangement. I'll remind you of the bill we've put together at Strategic, and hopefully we'll be on the program later, which assumes that the public protection measures will be carried out under the General Assembly by a synonym. It was all compared to lawyers working at the council, and it made no comment that it was a chance to do so, that this arrangement would be a violation of the tribunal system. And speaking of that, because now it's in the consulting Precautionary Department of Health for the changes in Disease Control Act, a full reexamination, I've just slided through it. There are many things that are quite nice there, to make up a special passenger committee that makes suggestions for a minister rather than a pathologist, one person we know on the face, there are more involved. It may take this only out of this personal costume, which I think is good in the long run. But reading the report is a little interesting. This is exactly the kind of arrangement for making an arrangement for members of the Independence Party work out, very similar. It refers to the arrangement in Denmark, and it says here, if I can only quote the report, that it was not always a good idea to assign the Council's Decisions, and it may be a matter of opinion as to whether anyone is responsible for any decision on meeting restrictions if the council finds out differently from the Minister's office. I think this is a bit of a special plan for the role that the General Assembly of Iceland is supposed to have in the community. So also says: It has also been shown to be effective in the Covid-19 pandemic, where small administrative strengths have been used so that decisions have been made rapidly and safely. In fact, international governments have been praised for the rapid and effective response to the epidemic right from the start. Good-bye. And then here comes a sentence that I find interesting: In addition, the work force is assessed that bringing these decisions to the Council would be a physical modification on the basis of decisions from the basis of professional views to the realm of politics. That's where I come back to the beginning and what may be the very essence of what we're talking about right now. It's so weird how people think it. Decisions vary from being based on professional views to the realm of politics. What does this say about the government of Iceland? Is this to be understood so that it is only she who can consider science, or is it not political? There are Ministerial Committees operating because the epidemic is being integrated views that establish specific decisions because they need to balance things out and take into account various viewpoints. It's politics, isn't it? Isn't it politics that we've seen through the epidemic when there's a clear ideological difference between the highest right in the government and speaking for freedom and self-control between individuals and others, and those who want to be more careful? It is only a very ambiguous political bitch who has appeared to us in a conflict within the government on how to deal with this epidemic. It is, therefore, surprising that in a case in which the health minister suggests that if the council has anything to say about this, we have left our professional viewpoints and across into the realm of politics. We have to get out of that thought. I know they are. Senators who present this matter will agree with me in this regard. We senators can totally listen to science. We can take into consideration various viewpoints. That's our job. When people's rights are being cut off, when they're trying to pump money from a state fund, when our whole school system is underneath, when we're talking about poor employment rights and other things - if we can't discuss politics in relation to it and we're also taking into account professional factors, there's something very wrong. I sincerely hope that the members of Congress who present this matter are not set in the same way as the health minister's report, since the position there is actually a disgrace. I noticed why. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and who. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir was both open to see if it could go further than just assign a welfare committee to review these matters. I encourage members of Congress to study the motion we have made on the convention council. She's going further. She is in line with what the head of the Independence Party said here at the General Assembly during the days, and there was no administrative comment to the Senate's lecture here when it was submitted. If there's any concern that this is about a Regulation that's hard to let the council confirm, we'll just write ourselves out of it. It is not difficult to design our regulations so that the council can participate in a political and professional discussion based on science, here in this hall, because we are democratically elected representatives of the people of the country, we have authorized ourselves from elections. It has to be arranged so that the council even has something to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, and all I can do is agree with him. I'm just surprised he didn't join my party like he was a freak. Clearly, we agree greatly on this. But I also welcome this speech here. Sadly, after having been in the political field for a long time, I must admit that this talk seems very widespread in the community that politics are somehow unclean, that there is something undesirable about talking on the political scene, and as a result, there is something negative about political decisions. It may be the spirit that appears in the sentence that was given. A senator has read here and is probably in a paper with the bill and is probably from the report of the committee that wrote this. Me and what. A member of the U.S. Senate has seen this during a discussion in a committee where we are sitting: Where can the Polish king's decision lie? But I wanted to ask you what. A senator, because I also have a few steps over his bill. I find that very interesting, and I expect all of this to be discussed in the Committee. But only with the bill we're discussing here, which I'm offering and some people don't feel too far and I'm ready to take that conversation, that I want to reiterate and remind you that though it's being put in there that if the Minister gives the Regulation first talk with the committee. There is no point in the fact that this Regulation should be in force for a certain period of time. So I see that there's something that separates this bill from what it's like. A senator moved, speaking of long-term effects, i.e. when the situation has lasted a long time. So you might wonder: " Is it really far enough that we need to wait for perhaps three months in some condition before the council receives some relief from such arrangements?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. Because it asks us about the changes we are making in the treatment of disease laws, our thinking is absolutely clear that it is not meant to detract governments'leeways, that they can respond quickly and safely. We think that once the situation has long passed, it is time for the council to have something to say about it. And then I'll only witness in the report, by permission of the President: But when it comes to long - term rights based on the law, it has shed light on certain restrictions in the treatment prevention laws. Transporters believe that when circumstances that may provide the basis for public risk prevention measures extend for a longer period of time, safety of the citizens is best protected if decisions that limit the Constitution rights are not taken by the European Commission only. Is it necessary in such a situation to ensure the access of the legislation of the legislator to make the same dramatic decisions? So I read it so that we all agree a little bit that a government at any given time, of course, must have quite much leeway to act quickly when we face such a threat. But also, when we are in such a tremendous longevity, long - term situation where we take so much rights from the citizens, where so much money is pumped from a government fund, where there are so many restrictions for schoolchildren and health systems in the position it is, we need to expand our decision-making and process. So I read it now, so we agree in that sense on the basics of this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u189	Thank you. The senator for the answer. My difficulty is that we are talking about further arrangements. Hv. In his speech, I agree that when we're here at the council, we're not talking about people and actors today. We are talking about a future arrangement in which we cannot predict who will be in any role and who will be able to see things differently. It's about further decisions, when something's been going on for three months, that I wondered about. But as I said earlier, I agree with very much that is presented in the speech of a different person. Senator. I think that's what. The welfare committee is now in at least two ideas, and then a prospective Minister's bill, which should make it easy for the council to come up with a better solution for the project they have been facing in the last year, a better way to adapt the discussion, and to join the General Assembly in that discussion. I wanted to ask you why. A senator doesn't agree with me in that, and there may also be part of the ideologies behind this approach -- I imagine that if a military action had to be made in a Senate resolution and in the reasonable discussion here, such as the Senate resolution proposals made at the council, we would react in a way that would want to have more leadership in action in the long term. Perhaps that's what a psychiatrist early introduced, that we would probably be in this condition to tighten and loosen the propeller, I think it was the wording used. It may have worked well for such a disease or spread. But I'm afraid, and now I admit that I'm looking into the rearview mirror so I'm not blaming those who made these decisions, but when we look at the rearview mirror and wonder about the experience, what it's been like to be on the train where we're supposed to be shouldering and getting out, someone's been talking about round ways, of course, it's had a huge impact on our professional life and society all in the past experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u190	A respectable president. This is what happened, before I react directly to it. A senator said, then I would like to mention it in this regard, because we're talking about the arrival of the council, that this has been so, of course, the minister is coming here to report to the council. Of course, we have a financial minister who has his economic responsibilities. There has now been an excellent agreement over a number of things, especially when it comes to any rapid action called. However, what I have found to be a flaw in all of this, even though men have decided to put it into the council in the form of some reporting process or such, it is now missing so much, especially now in these ultrasound epidemic years, that it is already being tightened or when they are making a compromise plan or when they are presenting some economic measures on the minister's steps or something, that it is done either the same day at the council, with some report, or as soon as possible. We were discussing the government's extraction plan today. Of course, it would have been so much normal and better for all democratic discussions in the country that the discussion would have been in complete relation to the publication of the extraction plan. The economic precautions are similar. We've known that, just like all the restrictions we've been taking on, there's only certain weapons we've got in the armory and we've been well aware of, and the same is true of material provisions. So I've missed something, but I'm not going to hurt the government and tell them that it's making sense that we can't take the discussion here in this room when making decisions and when they're introducing the decisions to the public. If ministers can be at press conferences talking to the public somewhere in a town, they can just do the same day here at the council and say the same things and offer some kind of conversation about them, and thus even get a good answer for continued discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u191	A respectable president. It is interesting to participate in this discussion and observe. In Denmark, the final decision - making authority on government control has actually been transferred to the Lawgiver, and of course it has its advantages and weaknesses. In Iceland we are talking about a bill that does not allow for any other access to the legislature but that there is a minister's DG to be introduced to one of the members of the council that are not really able to determine whether or how long the relevant restrictions will be maintained. Hv. A senator quoted earlier in the report of a health minister whose professional views on disease prevention are set very closely up as some kind of contrast, making a very clear distinction and setting this up as contrast, between professional and political views. Even in this discussion, it has been so advanced to speak as if there are some administrative issues that prevent the Council from making a decision that a burdensome provision for citizens' rights needs to be proved by the council. That's something I would never have thought of. The General is the highest power agency in the country, that's just the way it is. . I'd like to ask you what. Because he spoke so pleasantly and gave such a fine speech that I wanted to keep up with this conversation only in reply: How did we get to this place, how did the discussion get to this place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for this. How do we get to this place? You see, that's a good question. I think the first part of that was that we were scared and scared, and we didn't know what was going on. Then we're so lucky that we have people who won the nation's trust in one minute, and that's when I'm talking about the trident. We were together in the beginning, we understood and sensed the threat. We somehow got caught up in the thought that this should really be a professional decision, such as that scientific judgment is entirely monovalent and covered everything. Of course, that is not the case. As I traced back then, all countries of the world are dealing with this epidemic, and a great many of these are supported by highly skilled and powerful scientists and are doing their part in calling for information, but they take very different measures to cope with the epidemic. It's just an assessment of the circumstances, different situations at every place, and all kinds of things that can have this effect. I think it might have been the first part of this. And then, of course, it was like that, so I just went forward, that the government was only comfortable at the beginning of the epidemic and after all this to remove itself a little bit from the case. This would not be the case as if it were a major matter that should reach its breath into political discussion, for there is now much political about it all, though, of course, we all listen to science and science. I thought why. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir will be very comfortable with this earlier. She said there was a switch in between. This is what happens when we get people in charge we trust, the government thought they were comfortable, and that's how they played it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now that the threat is smaller, we sense it in another way, and we may not necessarily be in a mental state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u193	Mr. President. This is thought - provoking when the Ministry has become so entrenched that people are beginning to feel that they are almost impossible and that there are some barriers to the fact that the Council has the authority they have and the responsibility they have when it comes to the limitation of the Constitution's rights for public good and to determine the limits to which it lies. This bill has been spoken of here by members of the Independence Party. The fact that this is not going far enough may have been critical. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator will agree with me that such a change of law, such as a bill alone, can, in fact, be a damaging and firmness in the absence of the General Assembly, this Ministership we're criticizing here. This may lead to some form of virtual agreement and in effect work against the goals that I and I have. A senator we agree on, an increased arrival, and the truly decisive approach of the Generals to decisions affecting the lives and health and rights of the people and the freedom of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u194	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir First Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson Yes, I agree that there is a real danger. However, I do not intend to make the matter so bad to the point of thinking that it is their intent. I don't think so. I've been tracking the discussions at the council now on the treatment of disease prevention, and one notices that members of the Independence Party speak differently from members of the other two administrations. But I imagine that men are going too simply to get things out of the way that these are just a few men who really have everything to say and do nothing. I can't believe there was a controlled solution. So I'm saying clearly: I don't think that's the purpose of those who handle it. I have not felt anything but that they are very much concerned with this role, and I think it reflects concern not only for the council but also the lack of power that those members of Congress experience in the administrative work being constantly dependent on when it comes to the meeting boundaries. I'll think about it. Transporters feel no worse about getting out of that straitjacket and getting these issues in a broad discussion, at least More supporters to their viewpoints. However, I would like to make it very clear that in the first few months of this pandemic, the independents most critical of the preventive measures taken at the beginning of the epidemic were now in grave error.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u195	V.E.G. President. Listening to this discussion has been interesting. Many have developed, and then they may take some dips in, but the conversation is important, as we have seen. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, especially for her review of the case, felt that she did well, and many things she said made me quite calm with what is there, and what the idea was. It is also important that the information presented to the council has been good through the epidemic and for us who have observed them we know that a former health minister has provided at least ten times a report to the council, and she has always been invited and assigned to a health committee to review matters as well. I am happy to see that the current health minister is following the same route in that regard and will start out well with this discussion and conversation with the council and with the so - called members. It's good and it's important, and I want to keep it to myself especially. As noted at the outset of the epidemic, it was particularly suggested that politicians were listening to scientists, there was something on the basis of the problem, as opposed to the fact that politicians were taking advantage of the limelight, as we saw in many other countries, and they have walked indiscriminately, and did not develop this trust to the public regarding the health authorities, for example, regarding vaccinations. and on the other and on the other things that are related to this. It was successful in building trust and good outside, and people were comfortable with what was being done. They were trying to make the best of each situation, and the faces we saw were certainly contributing to it. I think there's one reason why things have done well with us, though, I also mention the percentage of vaccinations we had voluntarily achieved with people. I mentioned earlier today how it was to have this trust that is so important to be in the position we are now, to be better able to enter a period of relaxation and change and to bring things back to normal. It is also true that this has been delayed. But we have also won various victories along the way, as I would mention the vaccinations and the like. Conditions are changing, and this calls for new decisions and new approaches, perhaps different conversations. That's fine, and we have that conversation. I may not be able to picture the council that this will almost turn into a seminar for disease prevention. Although we take up the discussion and are the legal authority, and we come in various ways, we are not here the 63 health ministers or DGCs who do the work, but of course we give support and take care of the discussion and follow up and follow up on decisions. There was one thing I was wondering about. One is a natural suggestion, and this is followed by the report. It is important to look to human rights and in what ways and how ashamed and then to address human rights as well as such. What does it involve? I've been drawing out some other side of it, too. It is not just a cutting - off opportunity to behave freely and not even to be careful about the means of disease but also to protect the lives and health of those who are truly vulnerable and who are prepared to avoid illness. And I'd like to mean that it is, too, that there is a lot of people's freedom even in dangerous situations to behave at will, be cutting down the freedom of these people who are in sensitive groups, and who must even shut themselves off. We are cutting down their human rights by not giving them the opportunity to participate in the community too. We need to weigh this together when talking about individual freedoms, both how far we can go and how we can guarantee human rights and the lives of more sensitive people. Another suggestion like that. I just feel like we're going over it and we're gonna see how we can handle it now even more than we can handle. to make decisions and take measures to get the most out of the epidemic and to make a flying start into our new era in our society after that. I feel that it matters here in the suggestion that it is considered that it matters when we are talking about epidemics - and that it is not just this epidemic but others that may arise - that they are the means to act quickly to limit the spread of people and to protect their lives and health. When switching, it is important to be quick to react. We're going to have a chance to land, unfortunately, in situations like this over and over and over and that's why it really matters how we live this setting. It must be so that health authorities, health ministers, can take immediate action, do not have to wait, and so long before it has been discussed in some seminary at the council before it can be handled, even in a very short time. I stress the importance of that. But it is also important that we clearly identify what is being done, that is justified and logical, and that the council may have that view, even as necessary. But we must have these emergency personnel the minister and the government's opportunity to intervene. Then, of course, they have to account for the council. To get it right down to the point that you can't intervene without this review and discuss even the Congress resolutions and the like, is a little far ahead of the possibility of achieving this level of response that really matters. Here, people have been talking to them about the possibility that they will not be able to act quickly and effectively when circumstances arise are limited. I rely on it a little, and in the administrations of this proposal to the Committee, and the others who have been called, that it is always guided, and that will hopefully be the result of that work. In many ways it is good for us to be in this place during our discussion, that we are in full conversation about how we are going to drive out of this situation, but we are going to be careful and careful and careful and not lose our position in the last figures we've been discussing here. This situation is important. Then I'd like to come back to the thing some here have spoken about that it was important that we had listened to scientists, that's all said, and that's also from the front, we've been holding them in front of us specifically, speaking in the language. I think it's a bit far gone, wanting to mean it was convenient for the government. I just think the government has the best way to go this way. It was convenient for the whole country to see that we made a success of our journey, rather than for anyone else. It has also mattered, the political solidarity that has been here at the council, and I have noticed. I'm new here, but I've noticed in the past few years, that there's been quite a lot of solid solid solidarity here, interpolitical, at the council on what needs to be done and on these challenges. All of this has helped to achieve good results in dealing with the virus. I think it was a key point for this transverse team to have listened to the scientific community, and it also played a significant role, especially at the beginning of an epidemic. It would not necessarily have been achieved if that course had not yet gone. I mean, I don't have much more to say about this, I just wanted to swaddle those views. I expect the committee to consider this if the case goes there, and we will remain successful in our arrangements and decisions made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u196	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson for the speech. He considered important things very well. I especially enjoyed hearing him say that when we are talking about people's freedom, it's also about people who need to stand back and certainly need to be protected in some way and perhaps feel secure and secure when it is taken in the community to reduce the spread of the virus. This is an important point and one of the things that, of course, need to be weighed. But I would like to ask. The senator on several matters, both now and afterward, in another answer. First, of course, that we are not 63 health ministers or hospice doctors here at the General Assembly. Of course, you're absolutely right. The minister of health is a politician, and the rest of the government are politicians. Any senators and politicians can listen to the advice of scientists, there is not some magic powder on people when they get into the board and they get some wisdom that they don't have inside this room. Each of us, every day, is trying to use our judgment to reach a conclusion and find a solution. Let's not underestimate the council in it. No one's talking about it, I think, here we have to be working on it every day whether it should be a 1 meter rule or 2 meters rule or 50 people's meeting limit or 70 or whatever it is. This may be more concerned with the fact that as the epidemic moves on, the council is equipped to be the security valve it is and can play its own safety role. I'm just gonna ask you what. A member of Congress: If it were such a matter as Sigríður Andersen, would it be a health minister and her party members have more part in a government or more, would he feel better to think that the council would be some sort of a security valve? [[The president calls.]] If the Swedish Center for Disease Control was in Iceland, it would help. A senator better believe that the council would become some sort of security valve? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not better to speak of this independent of the characters and players and no matter what government is sitting at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u197	The president reminds the speakers of a talk class. A minute and a half past is interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u198	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We're talking in the same direction, I hear. I emphasize that there are specific procedures, and there are roles that each of us has. It's premeditated, we have a health minister with its role, we have the scientists and a pathologist. Everyone has a role. I trust that if they listen to scientists, and we follow this process, it doesn't matter who does what they do to the executives if they follow these processes and listen to the scientists. We have these opportunities that we have had to get them here regularly to talk to them, report them, communicate with them, communicate with them on committees, and so on, and after what has happened, the council can intervene if there is a reason for doing so. Of course, the council should be a security valve, both for action and for the inaction of the people. I think we just agree on that, and I think it was okay. I expect it will continue, although we may be able to expand the discussion and take it more widely because we have to discuss so many more aspects of how we are going to get this country out of this condition. And this is one side of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u199	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much. That's right, we're all rowing in the same direction. Even if we don't agree about everything, we're at least one person. Each of us agrees that this discussion is important, and we are learning a lesson from the epidemic and are wondering how better it is to keep things in the long term. That's why it's so good that this matter we're discussing here came in even though I feel that it's overexcited. It develops the discussion and brings us closer to some suitable solution. But only to what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson back when he was talking about trust. I agree so wholeheartedly that when the threat was intense, when we were afraid and fearful and did not know how it would develop, it was absolutely priceless to have, for example. Three ears, so we'll talk about the things that spoke for solidarity. We obeyed Víðir and walked on the floor for Þórólfur and all this. This was ridiculously important. I'm sure no politicians would have made it. This was naturally important first in the pandemic. That trust was of great importance. However, the number of epidemics changes is changing, and the lower the threat and the extent of vaccination will be increased. Then I come to what I was going to ask. Because he was talking about the importance of trust, e.g. as a result of vaccinations. Now we are talking about the assembly's arrival in these matters. I think I'm right about it, I haven't heard a member of the Senate pay a warning that we'd all be vaccinated. I think there was a lot of agreement, and there was no need for tribunals or officials or others to convince members of Congress that we should all be vaccinated. All I know is one politician who sat here at a meeting around Christmas, a deputy of the Independence Party in the Southwestern District, he's the only politician I know of who spoke in such a way that they might not be able to get vaccinated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask you why. A member of Congress: Has he seen in the politics that they paid attention to immunizations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u200	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A candidate for the counter-refect and for the challenge of vaccination. I thought it was such a shock to be at the European Parliament last week, and I realize what the situation is in many European countries today. The major problems of going through the epidemic are how low the vaccination rate is. This has been so successful here and, fortunately, the politicians have agreed on speaking to them as well, not against them, and society is with us. That's why we're in the situation now that we can take these important steps and make it, I hope, fast and well out of this while we see many other European nations continue to grapple in an ugly struggle because humans have somehow lost control of this. There is faith and such, and also in the politics, who say to the people to whom they are listening, and thus it has brought them much more tribulation than there might be. This is very important, and we wouldn't be here because we are today if we hadn't had this result and it wouldn't be this agreement on vaccination. And that's also what we're talking about, it's a different situation today, but it was a year or two, totally.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u201	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's excellent speech and particularly for highlighting what freedom is really complex and how many different interests are involved, especially when it comes to this, e.g. Like a snooze. A senator spoke of freedom from people with underlying disease in order to have a good life and to go out of the house. It is very important to make it clear in this discussion, not to be like freedom is merely about the employment freedoms of those who run restaurants or the freedom of the ideals. Yet, I could sense the meaning of a talk. A senator of such certain suspicions, doubts, and even opposition to the increased arrival of the Generals to decisions on disease prevention and restrictions. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Senator whether he is less trusted with elected agents at the Council, e.g. a well - being committee or if there was a special Senate committee here at the General Assembly that discussed disease control issues and control restrictions, whether he trusted in the Senate to listen to expert counseling and to weigh differences of viewpoints and to make successful decisions about life and health and human rights. Trust 'em. A member of the General Assembly is less likely to do these works than the individual member of the state of health?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u202	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer is quite simple. I believe and trust that the International Parliament's arrival was important in this discussion and in decisions, and so it is not changed. The meeting has been important, important, and will continue, and I have full confidence in the Council of that matter, as well as in the case of a minister or anyone else. I came to see that we had different roles and tasks as well. Although some of the projects are the same as the health minister, there is a slight difference. I think it's important and it's been, and it's gonna be, and we just need to have the right thing to do with it as the most successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u203	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Hv. A senator claims to believe that the arrival of the Generals is important, but as this has been very successful, on the part of both sides. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. The members Bryndís the Council of Haraldsdóttir and Sverrisdóttir Sverigrisdótttir, then the arrival of Generalis has not really been particularly great. It has only included a presentation of some kind or a report on the criteria for transmission. That's what I want to think about. A senator whether he feels this is enough, whether he really feels it's acceptable that the only equipment, such as. Those members of the Independence Party who are unhappy with certain disease restrictions have somehow been crawling in the media, yoking and flogging, and doing interviews, and I don't know what to do. In fact, they have no other means of managing unless they can offer mistrust to a health minister whom they do not consider to be the way they would have liked and may feel they are violating human rights. Got it. This is an acceptable situation, that of the fact that the International Assembly is no greater than it is, and is limited in listening to a health minister, as well as to a small amount of information given personally? That's what I'm talking about. A senator merely satisfied with this arrangement? [[The president calls.]] Does this seem acceptable to the highest power agency in the United States when it comes to such great human rights decisions as to human life and health? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u204	V.E.G. President. I think it's clear that we have many political opportunities to take up a discussion, get data, and get what we want in the discussions here, but it's also, as it has been, changed times that call for a change of approach, as we're talking about and that we don't necessarily agree on what's going on. I'm not necessarily more concerned with members of the Independence Party than members of other classes here at the council. I think this is just a joint assignment for all of us. We need to cross the routes to get out of the situation, as I said. It's not right that we've just sat here and listened to a health minister, we've had the opportunity to take the conversation with him under a report, a welfare committee has had a chance, as she has wanted to call the Minister for and get the information she has requested. There are many opportunities. Now people want to go further and take even more steps, and this is a big project ahead of getting out of the epidemic. I understand that there's a debate over which roads are best in it and are cheering for it. I'm not recommending it at all, but we may need to do it a little organized, but not out and south.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u205	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Congress members who have participated in this discussion, both in speeches and in the answers, and I think that the discussion has been very perplexing. These are the viewpoints that have been raised. I would have liked to have even more members of the council, but I will not complain to those who participated in the discussion. I'd like to reiterate that the bill we have here is a safe way. It will continue to ensure the opportunity to act quickly and safely. I believe, though, that some members of Parliament may have minimized a minister's appointment with evidence and evidence of his decisions. I think that as members of Congress we have to protect the importance of the council and that a minister comes to the council to answer for his work, and in this case a potential action is a major factor in a democratic community. I think it's very important that we hold on to it and not talk it down. Of course, the subject should also be sent a written report as soon as it can be reasoned. As much as I welcome the good discussion that took place to make a film at the highest level. A minister here today is also such that getting a written report with logical support, which is a document, is something other than a verbal report and verbal discussion. I'm just gonna reiterate these two. There's been some other bills here for discussion, because there's some future bills about the changes in Disease Control Act, and I think there's going to be a way to match all of this together and this is all the way to benefit, so I'll use that word. We've been in condition, we've had some nice legal frames, and my conclusion is that I think the Icelandic government has done a lot of good in its struggle with the virus. On the other hand, a man here is trying to benefit and think what you can do better, and to me it is to link the council rather into a democratic discussion. I think that the method I suggest here would also be designed to further increase our solidarity at the council, as well as that of the whole nation when we take on such important action, though I hope that we will all have the least need to take action in such measures that will result in the individual's freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u206	Mr. President. I'm not going to go down to the grave because I believe the Council should have a much more important role in discussing and making decisions on the cross-cutting restrictions than is expected in this bill. I think, for example, if that's what it is. A senator agrees with me. paritaprevir The Hildur Sverrisdóttir who spoke earlier, that it was a much more reasonable way to achieve the aim of increasing the entrance of the Generals to decisions for the disease prevention of members of the Independence Party, e.g. A good bill received from a council of reveries, or a basic modification proposal for the bill for the review of the motion - control law when it enters the council. I might get to ask you what. A senator whether she can think of it, whether she will be happy to put this bill aside if there are actually good suggestions, which are already presented to my judgment, which ensures the survival of the Council of II more than here is expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u207	A respectable president. I know the next senator is eager to find out what he's saying. I think I've gone over it now. If there are any reasonable ways to go further into the assembly, I have no objection. I'm not gonna drop this bill, I've given it a heads-up, the discussion's about to end, it's going into a welfare committee. Like I said, I think it's all good ideas for this pop. The task will be such a welfare committee as to determine how all of these will be best handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u208	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. I hope for support and solidarity, as well as cooperation with the members of all categories, to ensure better access to the legislature to decisions affecting the limitations of the constitutionrs of the rights. I hope for a good cooperation to do so in a more decisive way than is laid down in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u209	A respectable president. I don't have a place on the World Congress Presidency Committee but as a result of a discussion that took place earlier on the President's Conference Board, I feel compelled to come up here to defend the honour of this council. As noted in an announcement to the Generals' Web site, it was the president of the Generals who made a decision on the membership of the Generals to transfer a government accountant to a new Ministry of Culture and Business without advertising. The Council's Presidency Committee is not responsible for that decision. There was no vote for the decision at the presiding committee meeting, a meeting announced for the same day, and where meeting data could not be obtained until after the meeting began. I want to make this statement, and I promise you this won't be my last discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-03-33.u210	A respectable president. I present my synonym to review the legal and regulations environment of sea farms. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes to hide the Ministers of wood, financial and economic ministers, and marine economists to order a team of workers to review the laws and regulations of aquaculture, taking into account the payment of fish farms. The task force target will be: a. to sum up an overview of the total revenue of fish farms and of what income is required, as well as how these revenues will be divided between state and rural society, b. to ensure that rural areas in which marine farms are properly trained to take responsibility for the treatment of marine farms, c. to ensure that income of such remuneration depends on the needs of rural society and guarantees that sustainable ports and marine farms will be surmounted. A review, which includes a full analysis of the payment of state and rural farms of fish farms and proposals to adapt as clear sources of action pay to meet the necessary services of the state and marine farm society, shall be completed and a report presented to the Council no later than at the end of 2022. The report shows, so I'm just going over it, that this council proposal was submitted to the 151st legislature and is now almost unchanged. Fish farming is a recent industry here in a country that has been built up in the past decade. It is estimated that if production goes to the extent of vehicle tolerance in areas marked by fish fire, the export costs will exceed 65 billion. Investment of tens of billions of dollars is available, and further investments are waiting for further permission to run. The majority of the exports of farmed salmon, while its value in export was increased by 29% per year, and the value of it went to 70% of the export of fuel products during the year. Now the export of farmed salmon yields the second most valuables of all fish exported from Iceland. In recent decades, fish farming has grown rapidly, and it can be expected that this industry will yield hundreds of billions of dollars of money to the national market. Inspiration needs to be maintained and maintained. This will ensure the growth of the article and the greatest benefit from it. In 2004 a government decision was made that only part of the East and the West would be allowed by a marine farm and that it would be allowed on the island. The decision was based on the need to protect the year when the wild salmon population would be fished. Since the decision, much development has been made in rural areas in Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Farmers have worked very hard to build and secure infrastructures that need to be there for the growth of their operations. This is a building block of the docks, as well as a structure of population growth and a core of basic services, such as elementary and nursery schools. Farmers enjoy the tremendous power of fish fire. The population is growing, the job opportunities become more varied, and the average age - crumbling trend is changing, with a growing proportion of younger people being seen in rural areas. This has added to the greater responsibilities and challenges to your community. Some communities with reduced population populations are now dealing with extensive growth and cost - making infrastructure. On spring days of 2019, law No. 89/209, take charge of fish farms and fish farms. It estimates that in the coming years, a third of the income of fish farms will flow into the fish farms that rural society can gather for infrastructure. However, it may be clear that the dose will be sufficient for the development of rural development to meet the growing need for growing fish farms. In rural areas, there is little assurance about how much income is to be made, since rural society goes to its own expense and it is difficult to estimate the amount of income in the future. As this is a new and large sector, there is an urgent need to review the legal and regulations of the whole payment environment, especially what has to do with rural areas where marine farming is practiced, and to explain the data of rural society for curative purposes. It must be ensured that income from such remuneration will depend on the needs of your community's activities, along with the availability of their sustainability and community support for these activities. With my suggestion here, there is a reason. The members of Vagn the son of Stefánsson, Hrönn the daughter of Hafsteinsdóttir, Ingibjörg Ólöf Isaksen, Þórarinn Ingi the son of Pétursson, and Liniika Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter. A respectable president. No longer do they doubt that fish farming is an important business in this country. Investment of tens of billions of dollars lies in the article, and further investments await further permission. The export value of farmingx increased by 29% between the years. Now the export of farmed salmon yields the second most valuable of all the fish exported from the country. It is a pleasant fact that comes from a successful meeting of the West Coast of Fishing, this September, that 3% of Iceland's export prices will be created in a 1,500 - square - foot [1,500 m] slaughterhouse on the Bildudal Valley. Each member of this growing business may be able to secure the infrastructure needed to meet the needs and to keep threads in the building process. Building on wood is the basis for the growth of the article and of a joint advantage. During the autumn, the first payment from a fish farm was given. The laws of fish farmers support them, as they once showed. It estimates that in the years to come, a third of the income of the currency of fish farms will flow into a fish farm. The first development of this fund was in the fall, with a ratio of 105 million. K. which was distributed from local sources where marine farming is practiced. That's where the race begins for the most critical application. Two rural areas in the West got a total of 34 million. K. And 70 million. K. went to the East, despite the fact that more of the fuel products are being produced on the West. In 2021, more than 27,000 tons were produced west, while some 17,000 tons were produced in the east, but it can be said to grow faster in the east than in the west. Yet, the western fire grew by 22% between the years. A lot of work is behind the application, and it is clear that your community cannot make practical budgets or implementation plans based on the activities of the job sector, as other areas in which you can work. Therefore, in view of this experience, it must have been said that this fund of fish farming was a mistake in 2019 C.E. It is best to admit, and to fold up the sleeves and cross the legal and regulations environment of the fish farm, especially what has to do with rural areas where marine farming is practiced. There is no need for more payment. Rather, there is a need to ensure that income of such payment depends on the necessary activities of the next - to - fire rural society. Farmers are not supposed to have to go to a competitive fund to finance building that is necessary to maximise the cost of fish fire and to return to society, but governments have to ensure a fair distribution of these incomes. - I've finished my case.
