ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u1	A respectable president. In itself, I can agree with what. Senator. Of course, I'd like to see a minister withdraw this bill, as has been done with ill-founded bills at this council. However, in view of the prospect of accepting this bill that has appeared in the government's councils, and in view of the great support this bill has received today from at least One senator left greener. There were only two members of a council of the left green who saw reason to give this bill a warning. The warning was very public. So I'm not optimistic about the government's seeing its own dignity in taking this bill back into the Ministry and working it over again on a new basis from some humanitarian view of the alien law, unfortunately. But in other respects, I agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator made it an interesting subject of the bill's very interesting law, which makes it clear that the purpose of this bill and purpose is something quite different from efficiency. In many places, this bill shows that it is designed to improve efficiency because we cannot receive all of us, can't save the whole world, and must save only those in need, and we need a system that works to save those in real need. Therefore, it must not be overloaded by people who are not in real distress and need to be more efficient in getting them out of the way. What's so interesting about this is that the methods suggested by this bill to prevent people from settling in here are not efficient at all. There are many aspects of this provision, one of the greatest. This is, of course, the law that adds to the authority of the Icelandic government to dismiss matters without their application for international protection. In fact, the law says that people can be referred only to something that the U.S.A. seems normal for the person to leave. This is not possible, as this has been noted, because it is not that governments can simply put people on a plane and take them to any other country, the person must have authority there to stay or accept in another way of accepting the person. The question, or cheek, that I would like to direct to. This efficiency, whether there is something in this bill, will be improved in efficiency in this group of languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u3	A respectable president. I'm reminded that there's an entirely increased system cost that's due to this bill, which may tell you that efficiency will not necessarily increase. All of this involves an increase in government costs. No, I don't know exactly what to do - when laws are made that it's really complicated for governments to use them because of internal contradictions, it's not a failure to improve efficiency. I think that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u4	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I don't think it's very effective to find in this bill that's also accessing it as a matter of course. A senator was referring to the inefficiency that results, which is often an increase in cost. During a discussion about budgeting earlier at this assembly, I turned to the highest level of inquiry. The Minister of Justice on whether there was any intention of cutting down in this category, where certain agencies here at this council are told that we are spending too much money on this series that I agree with, which many are surprised, because money is not getting into good things. They're going for it, impertinently, trying to get people out of the country. The highest answer. The minister was: No, there's nothing to cut down, there's nothing to save, which again exposes the purpose of these laws, the objective of these changes, the purpose of the system that is being designed and redesigned, and draw up over and over again, with exactly the same fundamental defects, is not about efficiency or the better use of our resources. It is not about humanity, which is a word that, although less of it is being carried out, is particularly often found in the laws of foreigners. So I want to ask you why. A senator, or perhaps just wondering whether we can claim that we are spending our precious funds on the things we should be spending money in, by constantly shoveling more and more money on getting people in worse circumstances than it was before it came here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u5	A respectable president. The short answer is: No, I agree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u6	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, I could stand on this platform for a long time to review all the points I consider to be on the bill we're discussing here. In my first talk, since I now had exactly 15 minutes, I was able to address two aspects of the bill I consider to be a harmful return from certain reforms made in 2016. Now, there is a change that I would say would be a fundamental change, a return from the approval of the Icelandic government, even a duty, to consider the case and the physical treatment of people who have been given the status of a fugitive in other countries. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Minister of Justice in the past - now I do not remember whether there was a case or an answer - that he did not consider this bill to involve any fundamental change. The case of these individuals would still be examined before the decision was made to dismiss them. This is interesting in many ways. In a sense, that sounds positive. Okay, we're really glad that they're there to look at these applications, despite the fact that the law offered nothing but the arrival of these people. But this calls attention and raises questions in my mind in exactly the same way that all the other ingredients of this bill did. If the aim is not efficiency, if the aim is not greater human beingism, if the goal is not better handled, what is the goal? What's the goal of the bill? What is the purpose of this law? To prevent people from settling here, the changes here are primarily going on by increasing the clearance of the government of the United States. There is a set period of time that the government has to deal with, which makes it possible for them to stay close to them for years without any influence on the rights of individuals, without their hope even after a long time here. Government sources are being increased to put people in a very difficult position that makes them more useful to the system. It is now that although people are being reassigned in this system, they have not been in this country to deny any immediate emergency services. All these changes are wrong. They're built with a wrong attitude, thinking that here they're looking for people who don't need help. But that's not the case. It's this fundamental misgiving that's a problem with the system as it is. This fundamental understanding will make it possible that if this bill is accepted and the law will be modified in this way, efficiency will be reduced. It will take more time, weigh more, people will suffer more, with more serious consequences for those individuals and for our government funds, for our welfare system. Then you wonder, " What is the point? ' What is the purpose of this bill? What is the purpose of this change of law? That's the purpose, that's all I can read out of this, to keep a certain group of people out of the country. Once again, I want to give a talk. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, who spoke so well here earlier tonight. She raised the question, Will we be part of the solution or part of the problem? The system we're after with these changes is a system that doesn't work. It does nothing more than add to people's suffering and spending more and more money, more and more time, in destroying people's lives, even causing death, as the European system has done, by preparing what is called the Churchyard in the Mediterranean. Rather than being a part of the problem, we should be part of the solution, thinking all of this over again. The first step has been taken in Europe. I want it to be directed to the highest. The minister of justice and the government of the whole and conquistador to consider the steps that Germany has been taking in these matters. Now many would have thought that Germany was bringing enough refugees because it has opened up more than once. [[The president calls.]] No, it isn't. The changes that Germany is making to view refugees as people, not animals that need to be rescued from a bomb blast, but people who not only want to survive but who want to survive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u7	A respectable president. I'm gonna pick up the thread where it's at. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristina, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, divorced him. Also in Iceland, we need people. There is a direct analysis that if we want to maintain our quality of life, we need about 15,000 people to move here, to help us build our society up. These people are somehow separated from the people who are missing a place known as candidates for international protection. There are other types of people who can even send their harness out of the country. Thereafter, governments do not care about its consequences. There's never been anything that we've done to test the consequences of the people we've sent out of the country. This has been reported in a news transfer, especially in the news transfer of the moment, which has made a thorough assessment of this. It's time to do better now. People are not to be sent to the junkyards in Greece. It is also being sent around the world, just wherever we can place it. It doesn't matter how easy it must be to get there, but at least we get there. that you can try. Are you coming from Venezuela? Don't you have any cousins somewhere in South America that you can stay with rather than come here for protection? Whether the basic rights of refugees are guaranteed by the United Nations Convention on Refugee Rights does not matter. It is a massive return in the rights of refugees. But I would like to make a decision that this is not just a return in the rights of people to flee but also a return in the rights of people of foreign origin in Iceland. It is developing authority for the authorities to approach the medical community without a court order and without consent or with their knowledge. That's what they're doing with this bill. Other than, of course, what hurts the most, which is that there should be absolutely no risk of taking into account the individual circumstances of people who have been protected in a country other than Iceland, such as. in Greece. This was made very clear in these discussions what the situation of people who have been protected in Greece is. It is worse than the circumstances of people who have not been protected in Greece. But we do not send people who have not been protected in Greece to Greece because they are so terrible. But people who have a protection that's worse sent us back. That's what Germany does, for example. Could not connect to torrent %1. In many parts of Germany, this is not done. There are many other European countries that do not send people to Greece because they do not want to be guilty of violating Article 3. European Convention on Protection Against torture and Inhuman or Disrespect Treatment or Punishment On this very basis, they do not send refugees who have been protected in Greece to Greece. But we don't care. We do not even check people's circumstances after sending them to the junkyards of Greece. Now we're just going to send it somewhere, even if we don't have any kind of contracts. We're just gonna sort it out somehow. It's just gonna work out, and if it doesn't work out, we can at least... Throw those refugees on the street. This is the picture that's being drawn up in times when the number of refugees has never been greater, the need for countries who have enough, countries that really need all these people to maintain the quality of life that we are so proud of and that we love so much and we love so much - we're not going to take part in caring for these numbers of people we need because they don't fit in the right box. It's not the right people. It's not from the right country. It doesn't have the right color. This is what we see in Iceland who lacks people, who have enough to welcome people, but instead intends to exploit people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u8	President. All I want to do is talk about medical records and access to the medical records of foreigners, refugees. There's a problem with the protection laws and the like, and I think it's weird how it's getting different from where it comes from. I don't get it. We are going to go on the way to let people who are fleeing and need international protection fall into another category, e.g. with the medical file? Are we going to separate it from the law on others who live here? I think it's weird. It is very much personal information and surely the most personal information available to you. So I find it very thought - provoking and urgent that it is not taken lightly that the patient's medical records are available. I feel that such a thing needs to be convincingly reasoned, i.e. Why should this be allowed? There has to be a very good argument behind the fact that this is going to be allowed; that there are so much differences between people who live here and anyone who apply to be allowed to be here. This is something that must not be taken lightly, and it is very serious to obtain the patient file. For me, there should always be approval from the individual, as expected with others, before there is any access to the medical records. It's just that it's very clear with a medical system like this. I've been working at the Land Hospital, and I'm really busy getting access to a medical file. To provide staff with access to such personal information about people in need should be very well - founded and well - founded. It also needs to be reasoned why there are no other ways to go. What is the purpose of this? Are these individuals more important than having the same rights as others? It should be reasoned very well why these rights should be restricted in these individuals and why no other means can be taken to get such information. The most intimate information that is likely to exist for most people is in the medical records of individuals. It's very important to have this checked. As I've talked about before, I just want to stress that we can see what could happen to us if we don't perform services and services and other services for people who are receiving a revelation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u9	A letter has been received by the Environment Minister on request every request in order to provide written answers to the following queries: On request. 852, on national and environmental factors, from Jana Jara Gísladóttir. 857 on emissions of greenhouse gases from government projects, from Björn Leví of Gunnarsson and threshing. 889, on assessment of climate impacts by Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A letter has also been received from a social and workforce minister where you request an invitation to provide written answers to a covering request. 550 on labour control, from the Kolbrún-Baldursdóttir; on deck. 433, about the estimated increase in the cost of refugees, from Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson; to thesk. Six hundred seventy-five, for the reference period of birth, from Igbourn Isaksen and on the cod. 754, for services to homeless people, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson Social and workforce minister has also requested deadlines to provide written answers to the following questions from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson: Átjak. Seven hundred forty-nine, about the housewives' room, on the roof. 756, on pay and consumption criteria, and finally from the Ásthildur Þórsdóttir on deck. 680, on charges to the NTSB of Correctional Affairs for the dean's decision of a credit agent, on a deck. 682, on the decision to demonstrate financial support to cover bankruptcy costs and covering costs. 701, of the charges made to the welfare committee on the decision of the child - welfare authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u10	A respectable president. There is no law in Iceland that makes tenants equal to landlords. In neighboring lands, there are such laws. There are negotiations on the rise in rents once a year between landlords and tenants' unions. There, landlords have to back up with the real cost raise. Parties need to come to an agreement. For example, there were Sweden, where 12 Swedish kronos per month had to be set apart, and 12 Swedish kroner dollars are $160. A roof over your head is human rights. The tenants don't deserve to be the resource of those with at least Two of everything. The government has betrayed tenants, is peripheral, and is totally vulnerable to the cost of landlords who decide rents on a single-sided basis. It is wrong to see housing only as an opportunity to make money, for the human rights of people in need of such housing must weigh more, i.e. if we're human beings. The lawgiver has to write laws that create equal terms between tenants and landlords. There must be a bond between an unreflinching rise in rent, which results in even greater poverty. While these laws are not yet ready, direct action by governments that stop the destructive market that is controlled today by the greed of individuals, causing many families and their children much unhappiness. It must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u11	President. Recently there was an answer from the Ministry of Justice to my inquiry about legal, voluntary, and financial-wise individuals. Such alienation is often used to enable forced administration and forced care to be used in the mental wards of the country. In response to a minister, it turns out that today nearly 200 were legalized individuals, with an average of four years of decline in legal law. There are, however, nearly 400 self - righteous individuals, who are deprived of self - control on average for over a year. There has been much discussion about forced trials and the equipment of those who are under compulsion here on the country. It is known that there is a great lack of funds, services, and equipment to help individuals get back into life. All I want to do is ask a body of Congress to put themselves in the shoes of those who are under compulsion, possibly just because they have a serious mental illness. Let us, dear senators, imagine that we were in this extremely delicate place in life, where we needed first understanding, humility, love, and concern, and then imagine that all of this is a loss of self - control, possibly of force, and of self - determination. How would that leave behind us? I don't know if any senators have had to experience forced care, but I sincerely hope that no one will ever need it. When under compulsion in this way, there is almost always a shock that has long - lasting and serious consequences for the individual. Betrayal, helplessness, hopelessness, anxiety, anxiety, isolation, and violations of family relations are just a fraction of what is experienced by those who are under compulsion. They need to introduce new ways of helping people with human feelings and understanding to guide them, ways that are not to be used or forced.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u12	A respectable president. The newspaper of September 6, 2014, published an article entitled "Affliction of Private Drug Abuse, " could become a new reality. It discussed a few so - called council members with this idea that they thought to be rather novel, to stop punishing drugs for drugs alone, no matter what drugs were involved. A few years have passed, and the discussion has been a great deal. Even bills have been submitted, but they have failed to succeed, even though members of the council claim that many of them are positive for the case. When it comes to the facts, reforms are stand firm because there is something not defined, and this needs to be considered or to work better. A respectable president. This is not easy. How shameful it is that members of Congress use the group of lawsuits to decorate themselves by means of a series of long - range damages without following their words by making needed adjustments! As the Senate dangles in front of their noses, people suffer punishments every day and then snaps them right back. Then there are some statements, as you saw at the highest level. Secretary of the media that we need to be careful to send a message that drugs are legal, such as some form of penance rather than intervention in people's lives. However, the reason why it is morally wrong, as well as practitionally, is to try to punish people out of the world of drugs that have long since come and gone. Now another group has been formed, and hopefully it has been made up of strong suggestions. I encourage Congress to stop taking steps all the time and just finish the crime crisis. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u13	A respectable president. It is a true privilege for Meyvening and Tingeying to have the opportunity to speak in this regard. I want to take this opportunity to get involved. As all of us know, the local community is providing an important service to the inhabitants of this country, and our objective is very clear: we want to promote the level of government, we're going to care for the level of local government, and we're going to create a basis for the development of future solutions to people, such as welfare services and school matters, for example. We are going to expand our ministry, but we also need to consider making better use of the financial resources for the welfare of the inhabitants, e.g. by saving on capital and administrative costs and with increased emphasis on the ministry and by supporting better with pioneers who have good ideas but who lack funding to achieve good works and professional support, which we can truly give. There has been quite a debate over this group of subjects, and how happy it is that several unitys have been achieved in the last stages! It is a fruit of discussion and good work that this is expanding. Yet, there is plenty of work to be done ahead of us. The message of this discourse, just back from the district election, is an encouragement to the United States and to the Supreme Assembly. To continue to support closely the further development of these events for the benefit of its inhabitants. Similarly, this is my encouragement to the level of local government, just out of these elections. Many have considered what will be involved, the next issue. Let's think about this. Consider how we can make more use of the funds, further service to our people. My dear colleagues. Well, let's do it hard and think about how it's going.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u14	A respectable president. I wanted to come here in the spring, when tourism and life are starting all over the country, and after traveling around the country on the front of rural elections, bringing attention to and reminding ourselves of what is to come. Now the traffic and the scope of each district are about to increase as Iceland and I travel through the country, and we are going to have guests in our country. Of course, these increasing activities, as we know them, will add stress to all our infrastructure. Then I'm talking about the transport. There's an increased risk. We need to consider how we can guarantee their safety. Where there is more activity there, accidents and other incidents are also more likely. The safety response needs to be readily available. They need to be strengthened on the ground too, and then we're talking about police, rescue crews, and ambulances. We've been talking a lot here in this room and out in society about, for example. the importance of a medical helicopter. At these largest tourist attractions, in these small communities that are about to multiply their population, there must be intensive health care, law enforcement, and support of the infrastructure in order to prevent accidents and help these infrastructures cope with these increased projects. That doesn't mean that these systems are just localized. It just doesn't work. In the Twelfths of Microbe, such as 70 people there are 2,500 active GSM phones every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u15	Mr. President. During the days, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredd's daughter, the minister of Culture, introduced the government's plan to raise the proportion that the government will repay producers for the cost of filmmaking in this country. That's a 25% share today, and it's going to be 35%. This is a great cause for joy. I want to commend the government and the Minister for seeking this change. During this time, a considerable amount of pressure has been made, but in times past Ministers'success was that I felt I was under way. The reimbursement will be dependent on conditions that seem reasonable to me, and if there's any use here at the council, we'll do it right here, and then we'll do better. Of course, such indiscretions may be sensitive, and completely logical questions may arise as to why this is done in this sector and not to someone else. For this reason, there is very good evidence, and I believe that this could become an enormous source of incentive for a powerful industry with considerable positive side effects. Movie and game producers have an eye for extraordinary nature, including the U.S. But if it's more expensive to produce substances in Iceland, you just go to other countries or reduce your take-off days in Iceland and your simple production. That means that we will be a lot of money or that we will be reduced, and most important, we will be born of a marvelous land presentation, of which there are billions of dollars, more than millions of dollars. It is worth remembering, then, that foreign film production in Iceland and conventional media media activity are closely linked. A number of singles and businesses work in both sectors. As film activities increase with the expected expansion and increase in the number of Icelandic production companies, the foundation of which the Icelandic average media is professional and economic. The cake is growing, the ideas are increasing, the mattresses are growing, and all are profiting. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to have that ambition, because there's all the grounds, that's what we need to do. She has every opportunity to be one of our most important sources of export. [[The president calls.]] I am very pleased that the minister of culture and the government are taking this step and upholding the issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u16	V.E.G. President. The Report National Review on the state of mental health care in this country describes a situation that will no longer be objects of pleasure. For decades, mental health issues have been a child of the political and health system. The results of the development of mental health - care facilities, insufficient recruitment of health groups, failure to communicate through systems that do not communicate and inadequacy within the medical system, and limit access to health care services by independent specialists testify to this fact. It is also necessary to resolve practitioners, eliminate legal uncertainty about the information provided to the surgeon and coordinate the registration of events, establish central waiting lists, and thus to continue. The cost of unsatisfactory mental - health services is great and painful for society, but most are those who face emotional challenges and those who live up to them. Severe mental illness can be fatal, but they do not need to be. The number of suicides in this country can be reduced. It is possible to support individuals with impaired ability to work into the workforce. Young people can be reduced by the new registration of disability due to psychiatric diagnosis, and the gap produced in the mental - health service can be fixed only when someone becomes 18 years old. Let us not forget, Mr. President, that discrimination and inequities undermine mental health. Social factors also matter; secure economy, security, and the freedom from violence. I can assure the greater part of the General Assembly that the Conspiracy will support all necessary improvements in the mental health system and raise the budget for it. All the happiness and emotional health of the people of the land are at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u17	A respectable president. This morning, he thought so. An open meeting for the education and education of policemen on the bigotry and prejudice. I must say, I found the meeting very successful, but to the meeting, Sigríður Guðjónsdóttir Guður Djorndótttótttir, Ólafur Örn Bragason, director of police educational and professional development sites, and Helgi Valberg Jensson, chief lawyer of the state police. After an incident in the media, Pirata's request was invited to attend the meeting. I thought a state police officer was very careful about that incident and showed that the police reaction was in harmony with the announcements they received. But I was actually more important that at this meeting, I learned how much the police are doing to educate the police and change their culture in the community and the police. It was important to hear the governor talk about the importance of being involved in a service agency that should listen to society. I think we can all agree with that. The fact that the office has offered studies for multitaskment and often prejudice for all the police offices, I believe, is important because the goal of all policemen is that they can identify hate crimes. There were good ideas at this meeting, and one of them was that the State Marshal actually called for political leadership to fight the everyday prejudice in the community. I think we in here can take it to ourselves. At the same time, the State Marshal reviewed the importance of the police operation's internal Affairs and repeated that they should not self-monitored, so it is important that a police surveillance committee be promoted further. The meeting was positive and good and important to us who are on the committee, and I will suggest that we have a regular meeting in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u18	Mr. President. Now that the election has just been completed, there is good reason to congratulate elected representatives around the country. But I'd like to draw attention to the fact that all the groups that got to sit in the mayor's seat are at the airport in Watermamur and would like to see the settlement in this area. At an open meeting at the Syndicate on a carless lifestyle on April 13, last April 13, Einar Þorsteinsson, the Pledge of the Future Party, confirmed that he wanted an area of Reykjavík to go away. The Watermelon airport is important for hospital flights, short for Land Hospital, and the person standing here has personal experience with the importance of not increasing the distance. A new hospital is being built up, so we have to take this fight. We must defend the state of the field. The airport is an important factor for approximately all government administration and other government services located in Reykjavík, the capital of all Icelanders, not just some - all Icelanders. This does not necessarily mean that all the services are in Reykjavík or that Reykjavík is the capital of the Icelanders. That's a decision. It doesn't just depend on the mass of people. What message is Reykjavíkurburg sending us, the people in the country? Because it has obligations to all the people of the country. People in the country have been deeply concerned about this development, especially after recent elections, where groups that beat into or out or reject the airport with all the extra levels, even a class that previously taught themselves at the airport court. I only have one sentence left: then a cross tree fails as another tree.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u19	Mr. President. On May 5, the ASI Center issued a strong criticism of government inactivity and called for immediate action to cope rapidly with increasing inflation and unacceptable housing status. ASI reminded me of last fall's choice of conversation and pointed out that the dimples experienced by the public these days as a result of inflation and rising prices for goods and shelters will have a significant impact on them. The next day, the government introduced its counterweight action, which is certainly in a small way at ASI's call. The ASI Center calls it even. Having the government shoulder responsibility and taking the initiative to build peace and contribute to social and economic stability. Also, the tax system will be applied to the actual equation in the community and the use of whale tax on those articles that benefit from an unusual situation and enjoy an abnormal profit. There is controversy in society over the inequities we face as a result of government action and inaction. I'll agree with the highest. The minister of culture and trade, when pointing out, does not collect whale taxes on those who put a hot crop in a pandemic but whose opinion does not have a sound foundation in the government. The U.S. secretary of business is there like every other executive with Facebook entry. V.E.G. A businessman named a bank and a fishing business, but he could add insurance companies that became intense in a pandemic. The marine road profits from low fishing fees and the illness of the Icelandic kroner while the price is high for the public. The game must be leveled as the clock falls, President, and we equals the People's call. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u20	Mr. President. They hardly become the symbolic polls, but the one that took place in Europe during the last weekend when much more was giving the Ukraine a decisive declaration of support by its telephone vote in Eurosion. I will not belittle the fine qualities of the country's contribution, but the support for it in general was tangible and influential. While it is far past the beginning of the conflict and our discussion here in our good country has moved on to some other extent, we must not forget that the situation is still gravely serious and requires our attention, a situation that calls for a later solidarity with Western countries in their fight for international law and self - determination of nations, as well as a measure of action that must be carried out to support that solidarity. An armyless nation cannot help but relate to how much we have under the defense of our association with NATO, a defense alliance that has the main purpose of ensuring the freedom and security of its member states, with emphasis on democratic values in behalf of peace. The momentous news is now coming that militaryly stronger nations than we will be applying for membership in the alliance; Sweden and Finland. It has been reported that Iceland will accompany these Norwegians and Dana to support our Norwegian friends on this journey and that there is no reason to believe that the full support of the council will be on the subject, which is a cause of joy. Besides supporting the personal rights of these countries, their membership will also strengthen the alliance, not only militaryly, but also to strengthen the baselineness of the Community in defending our values, our freedom, and our human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u21	Mr. President. As a result, we are increasingly taking people out of the country of foreign activities with a measure of discomfort for the individual and unnecessary cost for Icelandic society. According to surgeon thresholds, 80% should have surgery within 30 days of diagnosis and I'm afraid this sounds like a poor joke in the ears of the many people who have been stuck on the list for months and even years after certain alternatives. One of the most unusual manifestations of this position is this healthcare strip where a number of people are taken into action when the wait is too long at home. This export is increasingly being carried out during replacement operations, in metabolic procedures, in so - called obesity operations, and then the action of endometris, although there are experts in the country who can perform all of these services. Government opposition is not due to lack of knowledge, skill, or assistance that these members can offer. Furthermore, the government's opposition has not come because it is inexpensive to take people into foreign assignments. No, increasing exports of people to operations abroad, which are far more expensive than those offered at home, are because the government does not want to negotiate with Icelandic privates and for some reason this resistance is not at hand when hiding foreign private workers. Mr. President. What's the deal with all this nonsense? Of course, our whole health system needs to be viewed when each decision is made. But is it really too much to be expected by the government to handle that task without the loss of people's health and emotional well - being, and now I don't talk about the dreary waste being spent here? Aren't we really going to do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u22	V.E.G. President. For the third time, I have proposed a decree that the General shall commit a health - care minister to provide a plan for all who are dealing with addictions of any sort or drug problem to offer appropriate treatment. The aim of the proposal is to shorten the waiting list and increase the availability and service to individuals in addiction. An active alcoholic or drug patient who calls for help needs help immediately because the disease is strong in most cases that the window where the patient is willing to accept help is usually low. This window is even lower in return patients, who are often allowed to sit on the back of the frequent list of some 700 people today. You see, the disease affects people in a variety of ways. Some need two, three, even four treatments to recover. So it is sad that those patients who are severely ill will not be able to access treatment readily when they need a second, third, or fourth time. People die in waiting lists, the highest. President. That's a fact. I know people who have recovered well after two, three, four treatments. I also know people who have died on the list of consumers. It's not fair to say anything that's mild. The discussion of these matters needs to be open and objective, the key to progress, to clear goals. Opinion is the primary project to fight for the increased management, rights and quality of life of alcoholic and drug addicts and their partners. This has pre children and caregivers of patients who seek help. Therefore, there is a need to increase the availability of treatments for drug users.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u23	Mr. President. Today, May 17, is the International Day for Homo, Two, and Transphia. In one dictionary, these terms are defined as extreme and irrational dislikes or aversion to homosexual or bisexual people. In many ways, the situation of queer people is good in Iceland and is improving year after year under the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It's a real pleasure that Iceland has moved up five places between the years of the rainbow card of ILGA-Europe, and continued with a series of activities in the affairs of queer people 20222/52025 proposed by prime minister at this council and taking on an important legal step for queer people. But the situation is not everywhere as good as I would like to use the time I have here to shed special light on the serious state of the world's people. In 2021, 375 people were killed in the world, and that number goes up from year to year. According to an international report published each year, with the permission of President Trans murder Monitoring Report, 2021 human affairs and the most violent years of the year in which measurements began. But we also see the context. 96% of them were murdered women because violence is also sex, 58% were murdered as prostitutes, four out of 10 were immigrants. The killings are taking place all over the world. New reports from Greece, Kazakhstan, and Malawi were announced in 2021, but South America stands out specifically in the number and represents 33% of all the homicides of transvestors in Brazil. I want to use this opportunity to draw your attention to this situation and that we can never separate the close ties between hate crimes, prostitution, misogynism, rasism, alien hatreds, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The opposite person who falls under the heads of more minorities is more used for violence than are other gay people, so we can never give a discount on any of these lawsuits. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u24	A respectable president. On March 9, I made up a subject on the subject of hundreds of microbes who planned to take advantage of the evaluation of property savings, although it is quite clear in the provisional directive that the payment is not to be an impact on compensation. On the same day, I asked for requests to the social minister and financial minister, demanded an explanation, and asked for answers on the question of whether, how, and when to meet all these people. Then, more than two months have passed, and there is no room for answers. The newspaper has now discussed the matter and interviewed people who suffer from this ill - treatment and legal structure, people who solved their special property in good faith, who have faced only extreme problems. One of the interviewers, Júlíus Birgir Jóhannsson, is deaf and deaf. He took out his special property savings to pay for the equipment he needed because of his disability and as a result, his mortgages and payments from a insurance agency were impaired, contrary to the law. A respectable president. Social Affairs and financial secretary must inform the General and the general public of all aspects of this matter and, most importantly, correct it, undo the damage done to the people. This money is to be returned to the Icelandic state immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u25	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the alien law, No. 80/2016, No. 97/2002. The terms of this bill were originally submitted to the 151th legislative Council as part of a larger bill of change in foreigners'laws and laws on the employment rights of foreigners, but that bill could not be fulfilled. In collaboration with the Department of Social Services and the State Department of State, changes in the right of young people to live and work here on land are proposed to Iceland's mutual agreement with foreign countries. The bill responds to the current contract commitments of Iceland due to a contract made against Britain when Britain resigned from the European Union. At the same time, the Icelandic government allows more space in terms of age and duration of living when it comes to negotiations with other countries about the employment of young people. The regulations are set out to give young people the opportunity to come to the country, stay here, and pursue employment in order to learn how to live and expand their cultural horizons. Similarly, a contract between Iceland and a foreign country enables young people from Iceland to experience the same in other countries. The bill suggests that the age of young people who can obtain residence and employment licenses for the mutual agreements of Iceland with foreign countries will be extended from 18◯26 years to 185.931 years. However, if a foreign agreement assumes that it is possible to extend such a residence and employment permit for two years, it is suggested that it be possible to extend it for two years. So a sleep on the basis of the Law could take up to two years instead of the present one year. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u26	President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of foreign law. These changes are required to respond to Presidential decision No. 6/2022, on the switch between management agencies at Iceland's Management Board, which guarantees that social and workforce ministers will perform services for candidates for international protection. Twenty-seven, thirty-three. the law of foreigners and the statutes of regulations according to these requirements, cr. Figures 10 and 11. 120r. The law. The bill does not include any material changes in the rights or duties of candidates for protection, only changes in which governments are responsible for providing the rights. With the bill, in cooperation with the social and workforce minister, two-fold changes in the alien law, with the aim of ensuring that the Social and Work Department of Services will provide adequate legal resources for the protection of candidates. First of all, it is suggested that the permission of the Department of Social and Work and the government that the Ministry may involve in the implementation of services to applicants on international protection for the processing of personal information. Foreign Office, Foreign Affairs, Iceland National, Child Welfare, and Police are already authorized to do this. The Department of Social Affairs and Employment, as mentioned earlier, will be carried out by Article 27. a foreigner who has a reception center for candidates for protection, and 33. The laws that require the applicant's right to protect the country. Is the change necessary so that the Ministry and Management Department will be able to perform services for candidates for protection, but the nature of the procedure includes the processing of sensitive personal information, such as information from the medical records, in order to assess the needs of the individual's services. The prerequisite for such personal information is a clear record of the law. Second, it is suggested that there be a compromise between compromises and services to candidates for international protection. The Agency has so far taken care of both the processing of applications for international protection and the services of applicants. According to this, clear distribution of tasks and responsibilities has not been necessary, as is the case with the transfer of services to another government. A respectable president. I've reviewed key elements of the bill, but the changes are being made in order to respond to Presidential decision No. 6/2022. Other points are to the bill's report and comments on individual regulations, and I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this little bill. I'd like to ask about what was being discussed here yesterday regarding the definition of international protection and when the person would no longer be classified as a candidate for international protection, i.e. According to a bill we covered yesterday, once the final decision has been made. Who is involved in the service of a foreigner no longer defined by the government as a candidate for international protection? Which is the highest? Minister of Justice or Supreme Court. Social and Employment Minister? We talked only yesterday about the affairs of foreigners in need and service to foreigners in need, who are in from all service that is under the Ministry of Justice and will be represented by the Department of Social Affairs, to enter a community. I want to ask you something about this point. What will happen to this group after it has stopped being defined as a candidate for international protection? Is it the locals that feed on it, or who is it that really is responsible for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u28	A respectable president. Once case management is completed, i.e. The management of the National Institute of Foreign Affairs and then the decision-making committee of foreigners, and the applicant has received a review of national protection, they are committed to their services for up to 30 days. The applicant or foreigner is, in fact, the custody of the Ministry of Justice. After 30 days, all rights for social service fall down, and within the estimated time, it is normal for the person to have left the country. A common time in it may be around the week, and up to a maximum of 30 days, and then all rights will fall, except in exceptional circumstances, which were listed in the bill we're dealing with last night, which includes many of the factors of the conditions, such as women who are pregnant, children, and their families, those who are patients who are not well off the road and those who are physically mobile and cannot get the service they need. So it's a warning. Also, if there is a reasonable explanation that the evacuation has been delayed, for the sake of waiting for confirmation of documents from foreign governments, the service will be looked to and extended. So the ministry is given for a certain period of time, and then they receive natural support to leave the country. Both fares are paid for inflation and exercise, as well as support for setting up a new location. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u29	A respectable president. I have a clear understanding that there's a little bit of dust in our highest level. Minister because we were here till night talking. But I wasn't asking the highest. Minister to the bill we were discussing yesterday, I was referring to the discussion yesterday because of the case we're discussing here. I was surprised to find out. The minister should say that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry is looking after services to candidates for protection for 30 days after a person is no longer identified as a candidate for protection but as a foreigner. I was asking the highest. Minister to when an individual is in need after 30 days. Who, then, is responsible for the ministry? Certainly not the Ministry of Justice, such as the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice said, because, of course, all services are being transferred to the social and workforce minister. When an individual is no longer a candidate for protection and after 30 days, it is the local community responsible for the service of the person in question, i.e. as the law supposes, that he divideth them as an alien in trouble? After that responsibility, are the communities responsible for this responsibility? Should the foreigner be helped like the rest of the stranger in need? Is that how it is, and does it not have to be expected in cost analysis?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u30	A respectable president. The question is, What happens after 30 days when social service falls, i.e. when the rights that the applicant had here as a candidate for protection have fallen away, whether it is the locals who accept it. The fundamental thing to consider is that the individual is in an illegal setting in Iceland. He is breaking Icelandic laws, and he must be removed from the country and he will not leave his home by his own will. Of course, the police's primary responsibility is to enforce it, enforce Icelandic law. We just assume that, as long as the person is not in hiding literally, he is missing justice, he is out of the country at the end of the 30 days, unless there are basic conditions that I listed earlier, which are very important exceptions from this point of view, involving people in a more delicate position. Who is responsible for feeding and dressing criminals under difficult circumstances? They also have the responsibility to inform law enforcement authorities about this in order to enforce the laws that apply to these matters. So I don't think this can be a clearer, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u31	Mr. President. I'd like to ask a few questions about the authority that is suggested in the processing of personal information. First, I would like to ask if the Department of Social Affairs is in general involved in the processing of personal information and if that is a new role for being a responsible employee of such a process. It is probable that this is the idea, and then the Ministry may provide responsibility for the processing of the parties in action, 27 and 33. gro, like the change to Article 1. Make the call. But what I would like to ask in particular is which party is involved, the government that will carry out Article 27. According to the words in this bill. Then, if we look at the 27th paragraph. It says that according to the circumstances, the Ministry can hide an appropriate agency, society, partnerships, or other operation of the Reception Centres. There's two things I'm doing. On one hand, I'd say that an organization or others are not government. Is this expression unnecessaryly inaccurate in the bill? And, however, isn't it too open to be making clearances for the processing of personal information into alien laws to ◯ or other sources'? It's too open, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u32	A respectable president. It is important to be very careful about the information given to the institutions mentioned above but are necessary access to work out the current issues, including those that are available to you. foreign business. Of course, it is the government that then makes negotiations, possible services, the proper procedure. So it was to form that a body of members had this agreement with the Ministry of Justice, both the social factors and the escort factor, of which a legal agent is involved in the entire process of both administrations. This means that there has been no comment made by Peritoneal Protection, and I think this arrangement can actually be blessed in exactly the same way with the Ministry of Social Affairs as with the Ministry of Justice. I had complete confidence in them to treat it in accordance with the personal protection law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u33	A respectable president. Because the minister here says that Perone Protection has not made any comments about this, I'm just doing it in the bill's report that there is no mention of an evaluation of the effects on personal protection. There is no mention of the development of this bill of Persian protection. I'd like to ask the Minister, who has a case of personal protection if the Agency was not involved in this bill. No matter how it has been in the past, every bill involved in sensitive personal information must be considered. The minister says that it is the government that makes the contract to implement Article 27. to ensure that the safety of personal information is well covered. The problem is, from the words in the bill, there is a government that does much more than just that. Then it's your organization or anyone else, or it can be. I'm having a bit of a distraction when you look at the 3rd mg. 17th par. where these governments are added to take place. 3 mg 17th par. The law ensures that there will be members, including the government, which will carry out Article 27. The law, information that might include a possible legal offense, should inform the police or involved authority on the matter and provide the information it might require. Is this just the work of straggler 27? or is this general? Would this mean, for example, that if Iceland's Red Cross made a contract on 27 st. and then find out that there is a violation of any non-operative procedure - are we opening up to some obligation there? I'm concerned, Mr. President, both because it doesn't seem in this bill to be making a special assessment of the effects of personal protection, and because the governments that receive this power are far too broad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u34	A respectable president. As Minister of Justice, I have attended several meetings with my staff in Europe, with Schengen territory and, in fact, more in the European Union. There, including the U.S.A. There are repeated reports, and there is nothing new, serious concern that the education system is being abused and that it follows what we call a lawbreaker. I think it's just the general rule of decent citizens that if they witness a criminal offense or have information about lawbreakers, it's reasonable to assume that they will report it to the police. That's the rule. That is true of government employees or those who accept assignments on their behalf, such as us as citizens. Other than that, when it comes to personal protection in this case, the bill does not include, as I did in my introduction, the material changes in rights and the duties of candidates for protection, only changes in the rights of government. In this case, there has been no need to consult Peritoneal protection specifically, since anything that concerns the candidates themselves is not changing but only the government involved in the treatment of the case. In early stages, there has been a Persian protection and no comment has been made to the arrangement and there will be no change in the contribution of this bill or its legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u35	A respectable president. I'm just a little worried that it's being caused by the competition to get the beauty out of this bill, that it's being a little overexcited. If we grab that report, it says: ▪ Don't be available, at the time when the bill is submitted what administration will do the work of the Ministry. - That. Service to candidates for international protection on behalf of the Department of Social and Work, according to Article 33. foreign shapes. Now, yesterday, a social and workforcer response to a query came from the source. The conniving woman of Etún Sveinbjarnardóttir on these very scenes. She asks if the decision has been made on which party or agency will play the role of the Foreign Institute for International Protection after the 1st of July. It's not long before that. It's six weeks. The answer says that the Department of Social Affairs is now working to identify the projects under the Ministry and to agree with the litigations involving immigrants and refugees. So says, with President's permission: ▪ Disseminated on different tasks, conversation with a strategist, and suggestions that future arrangements are being implemented by counselling companies who specialize in them. Agricultural policies. In the past few months, the company's advisers have met with the main strategists in the work being carried out with the aim of identifying strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities within the seminary. It is expected that proposals will be submitted to the Ministry over the next few days. On the basis of these proposals, further policy within the Ministry will be carried out on the basis of which organisation or member member of the National Institutes for international protection from July 1, 2022. That doesn't sound like it's working far away. Actually, it sounds a little bit like it's only at an initial stage, although we're now discussing a bill about this translocation. Otherwise, I'm not going to keep it much longer than it brought my attention to the wording of a justice minister when he spoke of wrongdoers in that context, calling it people who do not leave the country at the appointed time for offenders. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister would use the same word, e.g. over the people who have been caught up in economic crime, have been judged for economic crime, but are now being paid for by Iceland Bank. Are these criminals? Is that the way to talk about people like that? Usually, they are just people who are actually fighting for their lives, fleeing from a miserable situation, doing all they can to make a better life for themselves and their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u36	Mr. President. Maybe I'll just start where it's at. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson concluded, on the strange language of the minister in protest that it is very important to have some clear study principle and clear obligation of those who render service to refugees because he and other legal ministers in Europe are so concerned that people are abusing the system. We know that song naturally. It's sung all over Europe, and it's not a beautiful song. This is what we hear from stewards who want to squeeze the right refugees, who have worked on them hard, at least seven years after the outbreak of war in Syria, with the related refugee stream, to tighten and narrow, and to do all that can be done to keep the European Protection System as closed and unattainable as possible. I don't expect any other of the Minister of Justice, but I was surprised to learn that this tone suddenly appeared on a bill that surface is about nothing more than the implementation of projects due to changes in Presidential decision. But that is hardly the case at times when humans speak of what they have strong feelings for themselves. What I wanted to talk about, Mr. President, on a rather brief note, is a process of character information, as it would appear in this bill. You see, it's just as shocking, I think that the mildest word I can find, that a minister of justice, also a minister of personal protection in the country, did not believe that this change would be good enough. There is no assessment of the effect on personal protection in this bill. The minister says that this is because it does not include the material changes in the rights and duties of candidates for protection but merely changes in government matters. I have two things to check on. On the one hand, the new government may be in a completely different position to handle personal protection. I hope that the Ministry of Justice, as the Department of Personal Protection, has the responsibility to provide the personal protection agent and all the quality necessary to ensure the security of personal information. I don't know about Social Services, there's no record of that. That's one of the things to consider. The second is that the alien law is older than the personal protection laws. This law is 17th. The work of personal information has been modified, but of course, it has not been very detailed in the directive to make sure that the new personal protection protocols are established. Therefore, it would have been so difficult to take advantage of this opportunity that it is already being given responsibility for this provision to another Ministry, to work at a job that was not done when the big bill on the overall protection laws was here at the council. This is understandable, since total law cannot sweep up all the pieces on the floor. That is why all these trips, all the reasons for which there are some touch books, in order to take note of them, have to make sure that they are all right, because this does not include material changes, the old law may have been just not good enough. It is rather unwise to assume that the current law is 100%. This is not only strange to me from the minister who has the personal protection issue. Rather, it's an additional minister who, according to the new Precinct, is responsible for the quality of legislation. He puts here a bill in which evaluation of the effects on personal protection has not been performed. In addition, a little throw to the hands, as it were, from a quality check. Therefore, I would like to refer to those on the General and Education Committee, in which, unfortunately, I am no longer to be seated, to have a careful and careful consideration of this, get the Federal Protection of the Committee to review these matters so that the government as defined in the articles of the bill is clear that the government is in the series, for example. not too broad defined. That the government that receives these sources, then the Ministry of Social Affairs, is in a position to receive them. And this evaluation of the rights of people, which I would now have expected the Minister to have done before he brought it to the council. But it is not always possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u37	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the Marine School of Accident Prevention Act, which is the law of No. 33/1991. In 1985, however, an accident - prevention school of sailors driven by the Landsbuster Society began their operation to provide security instruction for sailors. The school course is open to all, but there are courses that are appropriate for those who work at sea or who reject them. Since the beginning, the number of separate courses tailored to the needs of Icelandic sailors has been stressed. From the founded year 1985, 57,000 have attended the school course. The school thus plays an important role in the safety of sailors. With law No. 33/1991 were regulations for school activities, but it was considered necessary to legalize the procedure, provide sufficient funding, and establish a course for all sailors. The law has been adjusted twice as a result of changing Iceland's Management Board. However, other changes have not been made in these patients from baseline. At that time, though, there have been some changes in school management, and the purpose of this bill is to suggest a change in the Marine Emergency School law to create a school setting that reflects its activities today. First, it is suggested that we be at pars. The law adds laws that require that the accident - control society of Landsbuster keep the Marine School of Accidents separate from other operations and community activities. Then the company will be permitted to run the school into a special company that will be separate from Landsbuster in the matter of management and management. Today, the school's income is kept separate in the bank account of the Landsaving Society, but it is thought that the law assumes that Landsaving can drive the school into a special partnership so that the school can be clearly separated from the school's otherwise unplugged activities of the Landland Emergency Society. Such an arrangement will not affect the responsibilities and commitments of the National Prevention Association for the State of which the school is concerned. Second, adjustments in school committees, paragraphs 3 and 4. The law. It is suggested that, rather than saying that the principal role of the school committee is to deal with the issues of the accident prevention school and building up, especially with regard to the purchases and equipment, construction, the main role of the committee is to be a consultant on professional matters of school and structure. The committee will continue to have access to professional affairs of the accident school and structure, but this change is clear to the Commission's position and role. It is thought to refer to the committee as a counselor in the school's structure issues than to the fact that it deals with these factors. It will not be that the committee offers suggestions for the management of the school of accident prevention on education, schooling records, and school courses. The accident - prevention Society is also suggested to replace school committees with school directors of the school's accident prevention school but to receive the Board's commission. Is it right that the school business itself, with financial commitment and the responsibility, makes a decision rather than a school board member? In the event of this change in law, the school board will continue to be hired by its paraphrase. Third, a change in 5th paragraph is proposed. which is about payment for the school. According to a current law, the cost of school business should be paid from a government fund. Iceland's emergency company is to make a budget for the school and deposit it to the Ministry to confirm it. The development of the past few years has been in the process that the Ministry of Transport has made a service agreement with the National Emergency Prevention Association on the operation of the Marine School of Accidents. A change is proposed that reflects this arrangement. Finally, fourthly, changes are proposed to correct the legal name of a member, so that instead of Iceland's crash prevention society, the Landsbuster Society will replace Iceland's Farman and Fishing Association with the Fégour Government. It is not expected that this bill will have a financial impact on financial funds. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that, following this discussion, it be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u38	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for a new law on rental driving, actually for the third time. The bill was submitted to the Council of 150th and 151th, and it is now presented in almost unchanged form for the third time. Minor adjustments have been made in the few aspects of the bill since the last donation, as detailed in the report that follows the bill. The overall review of the U.S. rental car law began at the time with an order of an Outfit, reviewing the rules of rent cars in Iceland, October 2017. The staff returned their motions in a report to the Ministry in March 2018. The report concluded that the change in Icelandic law on rental vehicles was inevitable, including the U.S.A. Because existing laws are probably not compatible with the EU terms as they were. The bill is based on a main policy of proposaling those whom the work group suggested in their report as well as the reviews received in the consultation process. Then we have developed legislation in our neighboring countries. The development of the bill is due to the fact that in January 2017, the EFTA DG initiative analysis of Iceland's rental market and potential barriers began access to it. From contact with the Agency it was concluded that the European Commission considered it a possibility that national legislation on rental vehicles will involve measures that would not be compatible with the international commitments of the state. The Agency had already published a rational opinion on rent - vehicle legislation in Norway, but relevant legislation in that country was much similar to that of the European Union. In the opinion of the Agency, it concluded that the Norwegian State would violate its obligation under the EEA Convention on the establishment rights of EU citizens to start and pursue independent work and to establish and operate enterprises with the conditions that apply to the national citizens of the state where the establishment is taking place. Last November, the Icelandic government came up with the logical opinion of the ESA, which leads to the conclusion that the State violates its obligations under the EEA Convention, but a logical opinion leads to a court of justice for the EFTA Court. Therefore, it is likely that there will be no changes to the regularity of the problem facing all the rental vehicles in this country will have to answer for the EFTA Court. The bill presented here is the product of the work of the aforementioned Department of Transport and Regional Government and Association and consultation with stakeholders and the general public. Before the bill was submitted for the first time, at the 150th legislature, a wide open consultation with the public and stakeholders was conducted. Following this discussion, significant changes in the bill were made, in line with the comments made by the manager. During the treatment of the bill at the 150th and 151th leg of the legislation, a wide-scale consultation was made with the OPC. The Ministry has reviewed the reviews and material changes of a few of the bill's requirements in accordance with indications given to the Council Committee. The aim of the bill I recommend here is primarily to ensure a good access to a more efficient, efficient and safe vehicle service for the public in Iceland. Then the bill is designed to convey laws and rules on rent cars to modern prospects, where safe and secure transportation is guided, as well as to ensure that the Icelandic government will fulfill its national commitments. If the bill is legal, it will increase job opportunities for diverse groups. Abolition of minimum license policies is thus meant to give the gender equal bioavailability in the class. Today, men are far more populous than women in the profession, but generally women are considered more likely to be part - time workers than men. There is also a violation of the rules for the applicant's permission to work for a certain number of days in order to have the opportunity to have published permission to grant those who have no personal contact with the class, it would be more possible for others to be given a leave of work. The consumers have called for the introduction of passengers to the services of their country in addition to the services of traditional rental vehicles. However, the bill makes no distinction between passengers and traditional rental stations. Thus, passengers will have to meet the same conditions as traditional rental stations to obtain their license. It thus ensures that the views on equal competitive conditions and that drivers are expected to work for passengers who use smartness through the service must meet all conditions as those who intend to serve as taxi drivers in the standard sense. A respectable president. I'm going to now explain to you some of the major newcomers and changes that are involved in this bill. The bill expects three types of traffic to be allowed. First, there is a work permit that gives humans the right to work as taxi drivers. Then the bill expects a license, which allows you the right to run one cab, as well as working as a cab driver. Finally, there is a work permit for rented vehicles. Work permit, according to the bill, gives you the right to drive a cab without driving your own cab. It is not allowed to depend on minimal use requirements and therefore gives the right to drive a cab, whether it is the main job, the part - time job or the leftover. According to the bill, a license gives you the right to work as taxi drivers and to drive your own cab. In this way, the Marketing Authorisation Holder does not require additional work permit. Necessary legislation is not as much as a work permit on the conditions of minimal use. There are significant changes in legal requirements for rental stations and their licenses. Thus, in the bill it is not specifically assumed that taxi drivers are obliged to pay rents to a rental vehicle station, but according to the current law, such obligation is to be in the restricted areas. Nevertheless, the law on licenses is set up, and it must continue to be granted payment for a rental vehicle station. Some cab drivers have called for halting duties that take all cab drivers into law, and I want to use this opportunity to encourage them. Environmental and transport committees to review possible implementation of such obligations. It is expected that the number of budget limits allowed to drive a taxi will be removed and the area will be restricted, as this has not been determined. Sources for monitoring the operation are explained and increased from the current law. It is thus assumed that the Grouping Office will be allowed to demand the information provided by the competent authorities and others who may be able to supply a taxi service required for monitoring. The Agency's sources of disembarking are also made clearer and more effective than has been. Changes are made in the conditions candidates need to meet in order to be allowed to drive a cab, including make the candidate's record clear. So there will continue to be rich demands for those who intend to do this vital work, and in some respects there will be more demands on them than according to local laws. I've been over the top of the bill. There is no time to tell about all the changes included in the bill, but it is clearly explained in the general report. It is important that we successfully revise the law and order of a taxi vehicle. It is a code of laws involved in providing a service that plays an important role in the transport system. With this bill's approval, Icelandic legislation on rent cars in my opinion fulfills the national rights of the state and contributes to the safety of passengers as well as bus drivers. Then the bill contributes to healthy competition and innovation in the article and makes conditions better for the supply of services to respond to demand. A respectable president. Finally, I suggest, after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee as well as the 2nd Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for your history, and thank you so much for the fact that this bill has been presented here. It is safe to say that it is time for the Icelandic community to have more freedoms in the field of cabs and more space for those who want to go into that market, especially for consumers. We all know that the limited licenses that have been here in a taxi car have caused problems, and I don't talk about when a number of tourists come here without the increase in licenses in that proportion. Certainly, there is much to take. First of all, the bill is here to meet EEA's requirements so that there are no access barriers to competition in this market. Despite the fact that there is good for society and consumers, my knowledge, I think we need to be careful that in the bill, there are no unnecessary and unnecessary barriers when it comes to the contrary. So I wanted to start by referring to what was entered into it. In the 9th. says there's a legal fee in every taxi vehicle. We know from others who have similar functions, and with the help of technology, you can predict how long it will be, how much, etc. It is certainly an exception if the journey is premiumed, something you can find out. But I would like to hear from a minister why it is unnecessary to exorbitant with so - called legal formulas when we know from experience that other devices are excellent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u40	Mr. President. Thank you, too. A senator for asking on this point. This may crystallize this change we are making, we are trying to reconcile it with as many people as possible. There is a requirement, however, for the tests to be valid, whereas a cab driver who takes a taxi car can offer services and total expenses, using other techniques. This is not the only way to drive a cab. Cabs are required to have legal fees, but they are also expected to be rented in advance, if only in that type of service. That is exactly how innovation and technology can cope. Today, we know that trips that may result in such events are such as trips. These include travel with oralves or sightseeings. The bill suggests a simpler arrangement where there is no special driver's license, but the same license is valid for driving such a car as regular rental cars. Thus, diversity is actually being opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this answer. I am very happy if we can understand that this amount of time will be available. It makes me very happy, and I think that's a great improvement. I'd like to roll up 5. The bill. I'd like to ask a minister if we're definitely taking care of the necessary license to drive cabs here in the country is not too narrowly defined. We're talking about a course here. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do about it. The same article also says that a minister will set up further rules in this regard. Would it be nice to hear what a minister sees in it, how narrow a frame we're about to skim about this point? Finally, I would like to reiterate that I generally celebrate and usually all steps in order to be free of employment, knowing that this is usually in the interests of consumers where the services to them will improve. I'd like to use this opportunity and say, as a consumer cab service, that the situation is not good enough. You can feel, for example. for women that they have become insecure down in downtown Reykjavík, can't rely on getting cabs, etc. So here, too, is an enormous interest in society. Finally, I would like to ask a minister: "If this bill came up for a discussion, I noticed a story in which a minister was quoted that although it was not really a duty to be found in the bill, he would like to discuss whether any of these types of exports would still occur. I would like to ask if there was some misunderstanding, since I don't know any better than that there was a lot of access that would work against the bill. Other than that, I thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u42	Mr. President. In terms of the interruption, I mentioned in my history that I wanted to encourage the committee to look into it, but I know that opinions are very different. Hv. A senator believes that there should be a great deal of freedom and thus a change in the present system, but I still understood the senator's freedom of responsibility. Of course, many of the individuals mentioned in this article do not want to change. The bill was made up of the proposals of a working group, which included a group. These people sat in and stressed the professional safety and safety of the passengers and the professional and knowledge of the drivers. That is why the bill has gone quite far in making drivers' demands that in some ways go beyond the requirements we make today in the law and the same rules about everyone. I see no reason why in the Regulation people go too far in it, and it's important to find out where we are. With the issue of halting, there might be some solution that might result in greater peace with this change. In fact, the men have implemented it, so each one can call himself a station, even though he runs just one car. It's an export I encourage the committee to review. I know that the ESA will have been watching how far we're going but I think we're there with the opportunity to develop this market, to do it with caution, at the same time make significant improvements in the ministry. While we haven't agreed to this and we've changed, the lack of cabs is accepted, I think. So I've asked a walking agency to see if there are hundreds or more rights now for the summer, and that's in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u43	Mr. President. This cab market bill is, as shown in the case of the highest. Ministers, like what was suggested in February, withdrew. This is only a change in the report. In substance, this speech will not be anything like what I thought on that occasion, but it is, in fact, a legal case and the importance of reviewing it again. This is, for the fourth time, at the highest working time. A minister to whom this matter is expressed, and these last few years are, of course, not traditional times. There are several explanations, one of which is a resistance within the council and one in the greater part of the development of some of the proposed changes, but also factors such as the Korean epidemic and the other. I just hope the Minister gets it through this time. This is in the main physical harmony of a synonym that I proposed in early 2018. In itself, no changes have been made to address the comments of the EFTA Monitoring Institute, the foundation for this conclusion. We stand there that this matter may come primarily because our present situation on the market here violates our international commitments. So it's very important that we finish this. We know that this contract on the European economy protects consumer rights and protects jobs so that it's a big deal if we're in the situation where we're breaking it. The bill is a good one, based on a report by a team on the global re-examination of Icelandic rental projects, and it's very good. I have full confidence that the case will go through and not so much changed. However, there are several points I would like to mention, as was the case with a minister. I'd like to agree with the employment company and the employment drivers' society on the fact that the conditions for employment license and employment permit are still finalized in this new bill and that it will contribute to a certain degree to the individual's freedom of work. A comment was also made that the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder can only drive one cab each and I agree with that comment. But we are faced with a taxi service that is on the basis of public transportation, and it needs to be discussed as such. There's always room for reform into such a system, that's the subjugation of change. This is especially true today when we hear voices of a number of people who are having problems using cab services, especially late evenings and weekends. There is no doubt that widespread restrictions in current law have much to say on the situation. Of course, the security issue is that we have paid access to taxis when people are traveling from downtown in the middle of the night and, of course, apply to other places. In order for cab drivers to perform their role in this public transport market, in part of this system, the service must simply be available. She needs to be there when people call for her, and she needs to be on a controlled budget. I am part of the group of people who believe that healthy competition is the key to achieving these goals without any mismanagement of living up to the responsibility of doing such a business. In a similar way, this legal amongst the few is a failure to raise prices to consumers. If the competition is active, if this works, it is easy to imagine that in the context of other improvements being made in public transport, there will be more options for laying down the private car permanently - and now even higher numbers: if they choose to do so. They can use cabs and buses and other public transportation to cover their expenses with less cost and less pressure on our system, including ours. with more space for the cars, for those who want to drive the private cars. It's all hanging out. What I'm trying to say is that a cab system that works well, and it doesn't work well unless it works for people where they need cabs and when they need them, there's a big part, important puzzle in our public transportation system and the whole transportation system. In the bill, as shown in the case of a minister and in answer to him, it is still assumed that a person could have no more than one car to drive a cab, he must be an individual. This hasn't been changed since the bill's first transfer. I don't quite understand why it still needs to be inside. I can't figure out what it's good for. I would have thought it was enough for the car to meet the conditions that taxis need to meet. If the car meets these conditions, why can't a person have more cars? But there are two important improvements in the bill. There is, on the one hand, the maximum limit of the total amount of job vacancies available for taxi cars. There is no evidence for the State to be in charge of this service above any other kind of service. There is no need for me to worry that the market will not balance, i.e. between supply and demand. It does so in many far more complex, delicate, and capitalizing markets. Of course, we need rules. We need rules, as we need to have all the activities that we want to be professional and that we want security to be kept safe. But I believe that professionalism can be guaranteed without having these limitations. So it's a good thing to do. But I realize it, and do not belittle it, that this is one of the things that cab drivers in the present system have criticized very much. I'm just counting on it. The environment and transport committees, when discussing the matter, show respect for them and consider matters carefully, i.e. that there is legitimate evidence to be discussed, and there is also an attempt to argue that the conversation is going to take place. Then there is the correcting of this bill, which means that the rules of currency are finally rethinked. If this bill is legal, the consumers will be able to negotiate a price in advance. They can get prices and even see in a applet that will be adrift and then the ultimate cost, and I know that in some cases you can get close to it now, but it's not working well and late for many, so you can clearly make a great deal of it better. Again, these factors are freedom of business, freedom of agreement, and consumer protection. There are huge technological advances in this service and forced cabs to use currency actually inhibit this trend, i.e. how to make payment, how to achieve contracts. This is a key factor in that, for example. to open the Icelandic market for services that we know many of the good experiences in foreign cities. There has been a very specific discussion of this particular service in which there is up to this delight, those who do not want to see changes in this market, reports of anything that has failed somewhere, cities, or anywhere else, in some companies. But the big picture is that this is a big interest to consumers. We're here with this bill, like I have at least grace to go over it, making rules that it is clear that there is responsibility, and then there is nothing to fear, that is simply so. We'll see, I believe. The services these companies provide are based on the terms and advantages of the shared economy and again we come to see that these transport benefits we are working here, especially in the city, will not be successful unless we take up the development of a cab market. Mr. President. Although I've been talking primarily about consumer interests, I don't give myself to the driver's interests in a light bed. Simply put, there is something called "freedom of work, " which requires that we do so. that they are not being limited to their right to make more money with increased independence in their jobs and freedom to choose whether they will be employed for a station or how they will qualify for their services. It is then important to lower the official fees laid on this sector, which maintain the price. If I drudgery this up: For taxis to play their important role in the public transport system, the service must be accessible and affordable between price and healthy competition, the key to reaching these goals is to achieve them. After they've been met, more people could park their private car permanently, and they'd choose to do so, and new buses and cabs. This is the picture we're looking for. I'm excited to see how the bill will continue working at that moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. Of course, we're standing here in mid-May and we don't have much time to finish this before spring. But I think it's very important that you get caught because of the benefits you have here, and also because it's not good to let this sort of thing hang as long as it's done. This with the maximum number of jobs has also been heavily criticized by a cab driver. I think it's safe to trust. The Environment and Transport Committee discuss the issues that have been handled best by those who are involved in making cab cars and somehow achieving a positive change for those serving in this article and those who are using the service, the natural interest stakeholders. I think I'll wrap it up. I look forward to watching my work, and I sincerely wish that this matter would be legal for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u44	A respectable president. I just want to share with you, what. Councilmen, my experience in cab service, in the context of the fact that there are many things to be done when talking about cab cars. I stayed in Buenos Aires for a few months. There are over 40,000 taxis on the streets. You just walk out on the street and reach out your hand, and then there's a car and it's at a very reasonable price, no problem, because most people use it. When I'm in New York, I go to either Uber or a tax, i.e. Cabs, and services are almost equal between both, cars with Uber are often a little better, a little more fun. In London it is that in order to obtain a taxi license, people have to drive for six months on the streets of the city and learn almost every street outside, and they divide thousands, I think. But those who drive for Uber don't have to know anything, they only use GPS. In Los Angeles, you use either Uber or a rental car, and you don't even think about taking a cab there. In Rome it is so that 90% of the cases I've taken a cab were always trying to cheat me. There is a point to make sure that those who drive are morally clean. In Oslo, it was in 2015 that it cost $32,000. To leave the airport and into a town that's completely ridiculous. What I wanted to say to you is: There's a lot to care for, and taxis in Reykjavík are pretty expensive. But they have to be expensive because gasoline is expensive, cars are expensive, and living in Iceland is expensive. I have a suggestion that cab drivers be allowed to buy gasoline at reduced prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting tour of the world's taxi market - is that not a fine description? But it may have been there at the end of the motion. I'm gonna come back with a hook and say, because now we're faced with the falling off of electric cars, the time is coming to an end: I'd rather see, if anything, that we'd make the last discount on electric cars if there's a taxi. It would have the same effect, but it would have a significantly better environmental impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u46	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating the contributions of this bill, and also because this is the initiative to bring this market a little more to freedom, in line with what we have seen the EEA being directed to Norway. It's not waiting for the EEA to take us in. It's taking over right away. It's not supposed to need the EU, although it's a good likeness, it's the need to reduce accessors for a long time in this market. Here, too, some things are being brought to a better place, both terms, and arrangements that have become widely out - of - date. There's something here. you are discussed in terms of obligation. It is, of course, completely inconsistencies with modern technology, where there are a wide variety of ways for those who provide this service and those who accept it to negotiate prices and to observe the prices, accept trips, have an overview, etc. You realize that with these changes, the existing people in the market can take up new technologies, but others could also come in. Cabby drivers could become more independent themselves, using their own technical solutions. You're picturing a lot of innovation in this field. I think it's the most important thing now that we're getting out of Covid wood and there's been a big crash in this business. Many simply turned in and began to do other things. To be sure, increasing technical solutions and other persons coming in can speed up the restoration of this system and may not only become one system but also become more flea. However, reading the bill raised some questions, but to avoid overexplicating the discussion - because I have confidence that a key opinion will be considered in the Committee's work - perhaps I am mainly going to take over section 8. and especially at 4 mg. ... involvedinauthority. It is, in fact, there. it is necessary to record the source and end of all travel. This argument is supported by the fact that there has been a tradition among those who drive a cab or drive a cab station to record this. Thus, the meaning of legalizing a set tradition seems to be. But the evidence for this registry is also given in the bill, e.g. Security reasons are said to be in the interest of consumers, inspectors or police or others who need to be monitored. It would be useful to be able to examine the dates of the driver's travels and to verify that a certain trip has taken place at a particular time. I pondered over the purpose of legalizing this obligation and logical support and perhaps also a specific paradox that I saw. According to one report, a cab driver's station was to record this for safety reasons and also for business reasons, it would be convenient for the station to have a view of these trips. The law says that performing this information is forbidden for reasons other than ensuring safety, promoting consumer protection and monitoring. The paradox I see in there is that the law is being bound to a set tradition or occupation used by these stations and is still taking part of the reason that the stations have been doing this. From these paradoxs and from personal protection, I saw that it was pointed out in the review of a consultation, and has been pointed out earlier when the bill was submitted, that the purpose of such registration is not clear enough. You also wonder about yourself in comparison with other markets or other solutions. We've seen a very large increase in electric shuttles, the market has flourished very much. It is very easy to order and pay for such trips with the telephone, and there are many participants who perform such services. I have strong suspicion that these parties are writing a great deal down on all the trips that are going, in order to distinguish it for commercial purposes. You might look to what is going on there, so maybe so, first it's showing that there's already a list of things at these stations, what this harmony is like there. I want to thank you again for this bill. I hope it's basically a law thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u47	A respectable president. On March 1 of this year, I gave a speech, and I'm not going to read it to all of you, perhaps fortunately. I just want to reiterate that I gave a talk on the same subject. Then I said: " I don't really know if I'm supposed to be frustrated or grateful that we're discussing this case for the third time, - which is now the fourth time - frustrated that we haven't done it long ago. But I also wondered, " Do we really need special laws about driving a cab? ' Is it something that is absolutely necessary, or were these laws set at a time when we were in a completely different environment? In my speech, I was discussing the fact that we had a law on passenger and cargo transport, and I just wondered if it wasn't simpler to have one clear, simple set of laws about driving like this and not requiring a special law on cab cars. I'm gonna back this up and hope we're gonna do it. The Environment and Transport Committee manages to settle the situation and we can handle it as a law from the Parliament before we make a vacation. At the same time, I would like to reiterate that the senator who stands here wants to go further in terms of freedom and that it is important that the individual's professional freedoms be respected. I think we can do that well, even though we have certain security rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u48	Madam President. This is a cross-labeled bill that has its roots in ESA indications that we need to eliminate the access barriers in the industry involved in driving a cab and thus fulfill our duties according to EEA rights. I'm on the prince's arm, completely following me, to eliminate all of these barriers. Work permit is a limited resource, so to speak. This work permit is indeed ours, in this and other sectors, to help that as many as possible have access to the activities being practiced there, and in this case, it is a cab drive, as everyone in this room knows. As mentioned in the case of what? The members of Congress have been standing, as it were, in the capital area at the supply of taxis in the recent stages. In the pandemic, this service was properly reduced, and they returned their job secrets and tried to find another way to do it. Now we look forward to improving times with flowers in the fields, increases in foreign tourists, and hopefully more citizens who prefer to live without their own private car, using public transportation, whether it is public street cars or taxis or other vehicles. But I want it to start out in the first place, because it has been suggested here that subsidies would require fuel for this work, that I think it is very dangerous, and that it violates all of our goals in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, we're supposed to electricalize the cabby like what we're supposed to do. paritaprevir In fact, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson has suggested a special suggestion here at the High Council. I come up here to mention something I intend to do. In particular, the Environment and Transport Committee needs to consider, and there are balances of supply and demand and different conditions in the capital area and in urban areas throughout the country. Then I sort of take the rural population out of parentheses because we know that it will hardly be expected to drive a taxi ride to a rural country in Iceland. And why do I do that? I do it because in our neighboring countries, and the examples I wanted to mention is Norway, are an exception to this absolute deduction. Their concern is that especially in smaller rural areas - if I recall correctly, the Norwegians aim at 20,000 people and some specific density built - may have a number limit. And why would that be? This is to maintain sufficient service. We know that up to now the work permit has been made so that taxi drivers have to stay out of service for a certain number of days, and this risk, and it is shown in the reports of a driver who has been in charge of the Committee, it is certainly possible that others will choose to do their job at the time when they will do most - we know, as well as, at any time, when it is here in the capital area - and perhaps reduce the maintenance of other times outside the rush. It may be that the times are different from the social groups, while those who use cabs most at night may need the services of the taxis. I'm going to point it out to you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Arjölm's Árnason, Chairman of the Year. The Environment and Transport Committee, to investigate this and to wonder what the consequences of this could be. Of course, we have to face the fact that circumstances are very different in the capital area than in the country and in the country, and we simply need to consider these changes. We do well to give serious consideration to information from professional drivers on how we provide this necessary service throughout the country. It must be our goal, and we must also bear in mind that at this point, although we can look at the effects and consequences of this arrangement in our neighbors, we do not know exactly what the consequences of the balance between supply and demand in this country are. And this is something that is really consumer protection, is about public interest, is about all members of society taking advantage of this service, can use the services of a pro driver, a cab driver, and that we make sure that there is no black hole in this system so that, for example, there is no black hole in this system. in certain parts of the country it will not be possible to use this service or that it is not available. My business up here today was sharpening the problem. The Environment and Transport Committee is taking a very close look at this issue. Other than that, I think that much of the bill is greatly improved, looking to freedom, and especially to eliminate these barriers. I reiterate what I said in the beginning that we should do it in all our professions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u49	A respectable president. It is with pleasure that we here discuss a bill for changing the law on cab cars, an important progress. I agree with what has happened before. People, that it would be better not to discuss this, we'd be finishing it. As president of the day. I'm a little worried about how far it is for the council, but I'm prepared to work hard, and I know the members of the committee are in it, to try to finish the matter. This is a big, extensive matter, and it can be discussed from many factors, as has been done here today. I think we all agree that we want to increase our freedom and the opportunities to improve our ministry and that others have the opportunity to offer solutions. At the same time, we also want to ensure that we have quality and security, and especially the security of those in this article. We also need to evaluate how much work we should put in discussing these factors beyond the amount of work the Ministry has put in preparation for this with a staff. This has often been taken up, and conversation has occurred, and the bill has changed and so on. You can't say that the bill is entirely new. It has been tried to break down both sides as soon as ESA demands are met. We have to appreciate this, whether it's a big deal to work on finishing the bill even if we don't quite understand the discussion that's been conducted here today. I'd like to say, though, in these matters, and just point out, it's a little difficult to discuss this so narrow from a cab ride. Only since this bill first appeared, and since the establishment of the work group, nothing has changed much in this market. All of a sudden, boppers are everywhere that are deeply affected by taxis. We've got communicators. The number of tourists has increased considerably, and the number of visitors has declined, and the number of them is increasing again. And how many people have gone through the tour school and are using cars and such? People are always designing a new service, finding a way to create employment and valuables so that society develops. The public is so powerful that he can see where the holes are in the system, and he finds solutions and opportunities in it. All of this even though we haven't changed the law about driving a taxi. The effects are tremendous, and we must not get too caught up in the thought of cabs. Although all of this is going on, I think there will always be a market for the regular cab. That is what tourists know, and that is what many people find convenient. Not everyone is going to take advantage of the technology to order a taxi. There is also another significant change, i.e. When we start mixing two sectors of employment, both of whom are watching the security of their people, and we both run a service that we want to live on and be safe. I'm over there talking about trucks and taxi cars. What happened in the Covid epidemic? Yeah, that's when the Internet store started full time, e.g. with groceries and all kinds of products. However, the number of traveling people decreased. They needed to be able to act quickly. The Internet store had to be able to shop with the cab driver past the van driver. Then could it be useful, or could it not? Did the Internet store have to buy its own cars, perhaps half a day, or could stress control them? It takes freedom for these classes to respond to changes in the market. We just have to accept that evolution is on its way. Evolution does not wait for this, and the circumstances that arise, such as Covid and the growth of tourists, do not wait for us to change some law at the General Assembly. We'll have to think about it from that. So I think we need to try to have all the limitations as low as we can so that both the services can be developed for the users and for those who are employed can react, create new services, and adapt to new circumstances. This is what I wanted to do in this matter. We need to look a little wide. This is very variable, and I just want to say one thing from a job. Environment and Transport Committee: A large proportion of the squares children received electrical fluids for transport. They weren't registered, they weren't relevant, they weren't tested. It was then come to the council that it was a terrible situation, that the parents could not control their children, that they were relying on their children, and driving on sidewalks, and failing to follow the rules, that the council must have to change the rules. It was hard for the police to keep track of whether it was an electric storm or the average vest and the school schools thought it was dangerous. Congress had to change the law. Two attempts were made. We've made some minimal changes, and we've made these devices mandatory. When the council had registered them and discussed this, and the Agency was going to enforce the new law, no child was given an electrical jet in the bar mitzvah, it was just stopped, there was a bouncy wheel. Then the debate began that the council had to start making rules about bouncy wheels. But what happens? All the older citizens who planned to get an electric jar to lighten their load and increase their freedom had to go to the observatory in order to record their electric tank and pay 50,000 bucks and land in a damned import-and-south trouble. At times, we need to slow down and say: People must be responsible for themselves. Evolution must be allowed to occur. We must try to keep the restrictions and complications the least in here. It's not a law to save everything. I hope we can finish this thing and do it well and orderly in the Committee. Hopefully, we will be able to complete this important matter so that consumers can get better services and new solutions and technology can offer more variety of services, and they can become valuables, and they can create jobs here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u50	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to change rural government laws, which have the main objective of explaining and simplifying the rules of rural elections and making it easier for rural society to maintain such elections effectively. With the bill, there's also some. Aim to achieve the objective of Congress resolution No. 21/150, on a policy-making programme in rural affairs for 201952033 and the implementation programme for 2019-2023. Simply put, the decision of the council is made for two goals. The first objective of sustainable rural society and their democratic activities is as follows: Later on, the goal lies to the self - control of rural society and their responsibilities, including To ensure that insurmountable rights and access of citizens to services, and to say, "Secretation and community responsibilities will be respected and that the rights and access of citizens will be guaranteed. The plan of action for the 2019,2023 approved by the Council includes 11 actions in which the above targets were guided. The elements of the bill are specifically related to action nine and ten in the Action Programme. Operation 9 heads to the democratic field of rural society and aims to improve public access to decision-making and policy-making at the level of the rural government. Action ten turns to the electronic administration of rural society and aims to improve public access to rural services and administrations, improve communication and ensure a good flow of information. So the bill is one factor in meeting the earlier task objective where the bill's purpose is to improve the options for rural society to communicate with citizens of the community's government through a solidly established vote. The bill turns to three aspects: First, explain and simplify the rules for rural elections and make it easier for rural society to maintain such elections effectively. The law on individual regulations was first found in rural law, No. 138/2011. In chapter X of the Treaty, important new references to local administrations were made to the inhabitants of the rural community. Under that chapter, the view was that it was important that the local administration of rural society be sought for a greater solidarity among the people for individual decisions. The purpose and purpose of the current 107th par. A rural government law that deals with the individual affairs of a community was setting guidelines on such votes and hoping that rural communities would use this method to communicate with their citizens in increasing numbers. The law set several specific rules for such a selection, but then it stated that the vote should apply principles of government elections, now election laws, as appropriate. The arrangement has failed to meet its goal for two reasons. On the one hand, it has been found that the law is not clear enough about the principles set out in the terms and terms of country votes. Thus, questions have been raised as to whether or not the terms of election law can be set aside, e.g. for the number of terms, opening hours, arrangements, non-conceptual votes, etc. Then there has been an even greater doubt about these features following the implementation of a new election law at the end of the New Year's Eve. However, it has been shown that the requirements for election making have been unduly burdensome and costly, especially when such votes are generally not binding. Similar views also apply to other types of local elections recommended in rural law. There is an election of committees with specific issues for a part of community, so-called neighborhood committees or home governments, which are conducted on the basis of the 38th chapter. Substitute administration, and cohesion elections of rural society, which are conducted on the basis of Article 119.3.g. The law. Therefore, it is important to explain the rules of local elections and to simplify their implementation. The way this is taken to achieve the above goals is to suggest that the country's population elections go, not directly after the election, but according to the rules they make themselves. Therefore, it will be in the hands of a member of the countryside to set up an arrangement for local elections that will be carried out on their roads. To ensure that basic democratic elections and the implementation of local elections and that their results are soundly sound among the population of the rural community, the Ministry is also suggested to set up a Regulation in which it will be recommended the details of a community's rules for enforcing citizens. The bill also suggests the interesting change that rural communities will be permitted to reduce election age for 16 years in certain local elections. Such a change in population election has been called for, and such elections can be directly involved in young people's interests. This will build the change, including in the view that a fall in election age can give young people an opportunity to take an active part in politics in close to the environment and thus contribute to the more active involvement of youths in later politics. Second, it is suggested in the bill that local sources in order to keep local elections electronically expand and that its regulations will be legalized without time. Information technology has produced countless new possibilities for promoting and increasing democracy. With law No. 28/2013 was a provisional law added to rural legislation that allows communities to vote, which is on the basis of 107.g. Country law, electronically. It was a five - year test project that was extended by law No. 73/2018 to 2023. Although few e - mail elections have been conducted on the basis of the source for this, there are hopes that with better and accessible technical solutions, rural society will make much more use of this option to communicate with its inhabitants. The bill suggests that farm elections, whether in the context of cohesion elections, home administration or neighborhood elections, or elections, will be allowed to continue by electronic means. In addition, the secretary is suggested to set up a regulation on the preparation, implementation and implementation of electronic elections and making electronic elections. The bill is comparable to the wording in the provisional terms of the local government that deal with electronic elections and have been in effect since 2013. Third, minor changes in the uniting process are proposed. The Ministry has received indications to correct certain aspects of the law relating to the implementation of unit members, such as the need for introduction deadlines and the number of discussions in the county government. They meet these tips on the bill. Madam President. I've been over the top of the bill. No reason to report all the changes included in the bill is given, but they are clearly outlined in the general report. I'd like to make sure the bill turns even. to eliminate any uncertainty about the implementation of rural elections, and it is therefore important that it be accepted as soon as possible, and now I look at the Chairman of the House. Environment and Transport Committee. A respectable president. I suggest after 1st. if the case is referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u51	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in rent. The bill aims to establish registered contracts in the official database and thus implement Proposition 13 of the government's campaign on housing since 2019. With the registration requirement, the government and the public will gain better information on the lease in this country, especially on markets and the development of rent prices, the length of contracts and species, i.e. whether or not contracts are temporary. The bill also helps to improve burn prevention in rented areas, and it teaches us from the terrible fires that took place on the French city path 1 of June 25, 2020, killing three individuals. So the bill is intended to implement 4 and 5 proposals in a meeting area on burn prevention in an apartment building from March of last year by ensuring that tenants will report burning protection in contracts at the beginning of a lease relationship based on the results of a state check. A respectable president. I will now briefly explain the key elements of the bill. The above is suggested to establish a registration due to contracts in the official database, a so-called housing database established at Housing and Managing Institute, HMS. It is also assumed that there will be a record of the changes in rent height at the contract time to ensure that the correct information on the development of rent prices at any time, as well as documenting a contract after the period of rent is closed. In this regard it is assumed that the Homing and Mobilization Office will publish information from the lease agreements, including on markets and the development of rent prices in general as well as on the length of contracts and exchanges in temporary and ongoing contracts. Such information will be used by the government for policy development and decision making in the category and thereby prepare the legal adjustments proposed by the Government Treaty during the terms of the term to improve the rights of tenants. They will also be useful to the public and to the public in connection with taxation of rented income. In that case, most of the registration rights to the public will be used directly by making the lease more profitable than at present. Enrollment of contracts in the official database allows you to obtain information on the market housing, the location, type and other factors based on actual rent-offs. This information will continue to be used to determine whether a rent level or a subsequent rise is reasonable to both parties according to the separation rate of 37 g. A rent. According to current legislation, markets have comparable housing criteria to determine whether rent levels are reasonable and normal, but there is a shortage of contracts that can provide reliable information on market rents. However, it is not expected that some kind of official lease target should be covered, since, according to rent law, it should also be considered to be factors other than market rents, especially for general housing costs, including interest costs, taxes and taxes, places, and conditions of housing and other such factors. The information we have on today, on the development of rent prices, the average period of rent time, and the number of temporary and untimely contracts, is incomplete in that they are based on information from judicial contracts. Such contracts are not obligatory in this country to be reported, and therefore the information of state-of-the-art contracts does not reflect all the relevant contracts at all times. In addition, the system does not have any idea how each contract's rent raise will change during the period of rent. Thus, rent-gain information reflects only the initial amount of money on a contract but does not take into account the significant change in contract time, such as where rent levels are guaranteed by the index price as commonly used. Is it so urgent that governments have access to better information about the tenet to base their decisions on, especially at this time when there is a great call for government action to improve the housing market? As for the tenant market, tenants have long been shown to live in poor housing security and to be the number standing in the nest at a housing market. Therefore, it is essential that governments are able to obtain reliable information based on real information on the development of contracts and on the length of contracts so that they can take progressive steps to improve the security and rights of this group during the coming failures. In terms of the registration requirement, it is suggested that it rests on the landlord, and he has 30 days to record rent contracts as well as changes in rents during contract times that do not result from the original terms of the contract. The same time limit also applies to his obligation to dissociate the contract after the period of rent. In this regard it is assumed that a comparable guilty warrant will be available, and now concerning violations against registration due to homemaking laws on restaurants, resting places and entertainment that have proved effective to help improve registration in that legal field. In this way, a government fine for violations of registration may be taken from 10,000 K. To 1 million. K. for each fracture depending on its nature and severity. In addition, a significant change in rent law is proposed to register the rise in rent height in the database as the basis for the rise to tenants. It is also assumed that the current taxation due to the income of the renting of an apartment building outside of a job driver's position will continue to be subject to the requirement that a contract has been registered on housing and is also in line with the above proposal 13 of the government's case report on housing. It is also suggested that the registration of the contract in the database will be the condition of the right tenant to improve housing rather than of the current application criteria. A respectable president. In terms of reforms to promote better burn prevention in a rented court, in accordance with the recommendations of the OAD meeting in an apartment building, the assessment of the condition of the hired person is expected to be carried out in the contract and its conclusions recorded in the special assessment phase of the contract. It is, in fact, there. it is expected that fire protection will be specifically reported but at the time of the 14th par. rent-ins should be handled upon handing up the requirements of the law and the regulations for burning prevention. Sadly, this is not always the case, and it is vital to make both sides aware of what is involved in such a separation and how they can guarantee it. That's what it's like. the assessment of housing and contracting will show whether there is a fire extinguisher in the apartment, whether or not the house has been passed over for a owned agreement, whether smoke detectors are in all main spaces, including all sleeping rooms, and they have been tested, if there is a fire - protection blanket in the kitchen, and if there are adequate access to the premises, i.e. simple, easy to clean, easy to clean up, and marked according to local requirements. This helps to improve both tenant and tenant's awareness of the condition of fire defenses and the need for maintenance. It should be noted that the assessment of rented houses does not have to involve costs, as it is assumed that the parties themselves can carry it out by the standard government assessment form. It is expected that an electronic contract could be completed on a standard contract within the DLC website, signed by e-mail and then followed by the registration of the contract, and even the application for housing reforms at the Agency. You may also be able to store pictures on the web of the housing status during the evaluation procedure. In this way, the possibility of later encountering differences between the owner of the contract may be reduced to damage the housing and the right to bail. A respectable president. According to the assessment of the cost of the bill, the registration of contracts and the publication of rent contracts data, including the market market market, will have negligible costs, as the establishment and management of housing bases were already expected at the date of law No. 137/2019, about Houses and Engineers. The cost of the foundation is therefore part of the Agency's management programme already, including funding. In the end, considering the equality of the bill, it is likely to have a more positive effect on women than men, especially single mothers, as better information on rent markets, including rent height, are expected to improve government policy in litigation and support measures, such as housing reforms, and contribute to the fair and normalness of rent prices for both parties. For more details on equality, see the bill's report. A respectable president. I believe the changes in law presented here include an important requisite for all concerned persons. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that, following this discussion, it be referred to why. The welfare committee as well as the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u52	Madam President. This bill suggests some changes for the better, but my opinion is that it is not far enough but that it takes careful action to get to the ground. The positive thing about the bill is a requirement for registration, a obligation to make a assessment of fire defenses, and a more detailed definition of what is fair and what is considered unreasonable in rent contracts. Then you worry that the bill will not, in effect, lead to great improvement for tenants. It is not enough to provide an economist for a contract to be fair. There is no legal protection for people, there must be standard criteria for changing contracts and how much prices can be raised when a new agreement is made after the first date. Then it seems to me that the bill's report has not been consulted with the tenants organisation in its contract. You would have thought that these organizations were at the top of the list when work began with the bill and that the government had sought its potential influence and whether it would achieve a purpose. I hope that the government will consider this during the election season and consult with the tenants if it is necessary to make further changes in rents and certainly hope that the organization will be called for a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the tips and queries. I think it's probably a matter of opinion that the Senate calls all the professionals to discuss the impact of the case. I have no doubt in my own mind that everyone will agree that it's a good thing to do. I'll agree soon too. A senator says that there will be some who think that walking should have been further and that something else should have been on the bill and on other things. There are two main issues here being dealt with, on the one hand, this registration duty, which I have no doubt will greatly help and improve the rights of tenants, and on the other hand, benefits of burn prevention. There are also suggestions that have passed through working groups, and a good consultation has been made to improve awareness, both tenants and landlords, in the preparation of contracts, and to make sure that circumstances are clear. I realize that some people want other things to be in this bill. I just think it's important that we take this step right now and I wish we had got it before because then we'd have better information to run the policies we're in and we're gonna go to this summer and in the fall, and we're in these weeks. There we will consult with all the market professionals in order to strengthen the legal status of tenants whom I think we all agree that it is important. But we also need to secure the supply, so we cannot overdo the rights of the landlords and limit their freedom to action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u54	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and hear that he is ready to bring in the tenants organization, and I am very pleased with that. But there was one thing I cut by, and that's a good thing, i.e. an independent assessment of rent houses can be requested on an individual basis. I believe that it is important to ensure that landlords do not misuse the law in order to always be asked for an independent assessment and thus renters must always pay for an independent assessment. I think it's more reasonable to think that the rule is in order that if a tenant wishes an independent bill, the cost should be evenly divided than when a landlord requests a bill, he alone should bear the cost. I'm one of those who fear that this will not add to rent prices, and I continue to expose tenants to potential landlords who decide the price of rent on a one-sided basis. But I know this bill is certainly going to take the first step to revise rent law in the terms of the election and I just want to encourage people to continue working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u55	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator that it is important that we use the next semester to develop the law and order around the tenet better. There are too many things we don't know. I think I can still say that about 60% of the markets are people renting from apartments, whether because they don't use them, live elsewhere, or have two or three apartments. But 40% will be with bigger partners on this market. Of course, there are very different things in this regard. If we are to ensure enough supply, we must be careful that we are not creating a rule, which makes it possible that this 60%, which may be the biggest part, will not even include stores in the market, since then we will add to the problems and the other. But in the same way, we may also be able to encourage a larger proportion of the rent market to be in the hands of a business partner, an adverse partner, etc. who are working to make the lease as a professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story, and I'm glad this case has finally arrived. I can agree with what was presented in the case of the Minister here just in case, i.e. that he would have liked to see this bill appear earlier. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers, why this matter was not put first during the last terms. My other question is that in the 2019 C.E. Declaration of the Government for the Biography Treaty, you will find that the rights of rent law will be changed, and particularly regarding the protection of tenants when it comes to raising rent peaks. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of this bill or for example, why rent blankets or rented roofs are not expected. Companies to interfere with the tenure. May we expect such a bill or other council agreement that will be more appropriate to what the government committed to making a biographer contract of 2019? It's the highest. Minister to pick up some kind of rent brake, to protect tenants in a direct way from excessive increases?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u57	A respectable president. I think the situation in this case is that it was being done during the last term. Then I took this legal class into the beginning of this terms and immediately decided to bring this part of the project into the project to try to get the Senate's quick release so that we could start collecting information. The emphasis that is placed on further changes in the rent law, such as the driving force. A senator referred to, based on pooled and more reliable information on the lease in this country than is currently available. We have, as I went over in my history, far too limited information about him and they're based on contracts. We need information on the amount of contracts, length, and species. The information that will be collected in this public housing database, on legal registration of all contracts, provides a better basis for making policy-making decisions on how we strengthen the tenant position and improve their terms. Hv. A senator mentioned some things, and I do not intend to comment on whether I agree or disagree with them. I know, however, that in the countries around us, there are very different paths to go. I don't think it's wise, in circumstances where we're living, when we know too little about the lease, to decide it here and now that one way is better than another. So I'm stressing that the bill is being given quick payment so that we can start getting reliable information that we can make policy decisions based on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u58	A respectable president. Now it is simply so that the government of Iceland owes itself, with a statement made by the 2019 collective agreements, in order to have ahead of changes in the law to further protect tenants, to strengthen their legal standing and to ensure their protection when it comes to the rise in rent height, as it is said here. If so, a few years later, it may seem that it is not the time to speak up about how to do so because we simply do not have a basis for it. I understood the best. A minister is responsible primarily for his predecessor's responsibility in office that would not have done this, at least. found the highest. A minister is moved to state that he was newly involved in this series of issues, which, of course, are absolutely correct. I might like to ask here in the second pass, because the highest. A minister has stressed the importance of increasing the cost of building opportunities, whether or not it is in complete agreement with his Word, on the importance of increasing rent - house supplying to a more manageable price, to be at the same time driving down a decrease in rent - house area compared to the population and increasing number in the coming years by reducing the budget of 2 billion in the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u59	Madam President. I realize that in reply to metareptics, people can take up a discussion about anything. I'm not going to follow through with every statement. A senator and his interpretation of my words. But I'm going to say this about the stock industry - we've been discussing it before, with some reason. Group members, I think we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson: The reason why we have built not more in institutions is not primarily a lack of funding but lack of weights. The financial contributions sent to the Rock and other such associates have had to be returned to HMS because they have not obtained land. Although it has come back and forth into this sermon and has claimed that the only thing that needs to be raised is to be solved, that is not the case. That's why we're setting it up now, in a national economy housing group, what's the reason why we haven't built enough. It's not because it lacks funding. Government policy is clear. We're going to increase housing costs, we're going to increase the supply on weights. I've been speaking in this public discourse that one way is to make some kind of frame deal with the rural communities in the country, so that there's enough structural property available over the next five years and a policy housing policy that will be set up in the fall, to 15 years, with a five-year plan of action, makes it possible for us to produce 4,000 weights in five years or about 20,000 apartments. [[The president calls.]] I think that may be the most important thing, and part of that apartment obviously has to be on rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u60	Madam President. I think it is my right and duty to speak to the first. about this bill at the highest. A minister of wood who is presented here with good intentions. But I have a few things to do with the bill. This is no surprise to the minister, and it should not really surprise anyone who has a glimpse of the ideas I have and is in politics. I'm not going to trace, Madam President, the material bill. The minister did just fine and clearly in his speech. But they meant that they're laying down a landlord, a guilty warrant that's being given a Homological and Human Invasion Institute, and in what way there is an increase in the surveillance role of that institution, at best, is subject to thoughtful and, at worst, very dangerous. In the bill's report, it says in one place that it is important that the public, in this case, be made clear that even if it is a private law of law, it is a Homing and Distinction Institute. This, of course, is the key and key to my criticism of the bill. This is a private legal agreement, and when it comes to government, government, government, to observe and record exclusive agreements, you need to think carefully about whether the purpose of the situation is the least. Of course, with the bill it is a violation of individual contract freedoms in exclusive contracts, in this case of renting homes on public markets. It is being done that terms for the value of the contracts and changes in potential rent levels are being set up in the terms of the government's arrival, and that they are registered in the state's special database, otherwise they are not really in force. This is a trend that must be warned, not just in rented sales, but in general. In this case, we're talking rented. Then, of course, there's wood laws, administration fines, which can study up to 1 billion. K. if, for some reason, people do not record their contracts, their exclusive agreements. The purpose of this -- and I understand the purpose, I understand that the government thinks it's necessary to have better rent information. Also, there are other things in Icelandic society, that it would be good and beneficial to have better information about things that are going on in Icelandic society. But it can never be a justification for the state's reaching into and involved, requiring that individuals recognize and record all their actions or everything that is going on between two free individuals. This, of course, is something I strongly warn you about. The purpose is noble, but I fear that the consequences can be in a way that will be worse than what we achieve. And another thing is, I'm afraid that if the bill goes forward, it will have the opposite effect on the lease than on the market, i.e. that it will make him less sane. First, it is clear that some part of the lease goes under the black economy. People don't see the purpose of writing contracts, refusing to write a contract with a tenant who can go to the county and announce the contract, thus ensuring their legal rights. However, this will also result in renting an apartment to an individual who has no purpose in renting it because the trouble, writing, has become too much. The person then takes the apartment out of a rented market, stops renting it out. Of course, if we see a tenure supply shrinking because of this, it meets primarily those in a rented market and will result in an increase in rent prices. And we can't forget one thing. Of course, they're making a booth. There's more paperwork coming up. The normal relations between two individuals or families are increasing. A big brother is being put on another shift in Icelandic society. Madam President. I'm not going to keep it much further, but I'd like to say that the Independence Party made a material comment to the bill. A group of members of the Independence Party, including the one listed here, do not feel that they are able to support the bill in the same form but will not stand in the way of its success.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u61	Madam President. I can't say "fuck" over a talk. A panel president of the Independence Party, which has actually left the hall, informing one of the board's opinions on the bill. But that wasn't why I asked for the word, but it gave no doubt into the communication, perhaps the best way to put it, between the members of the administrations. But let's leave it in the middle. I came up here, Madam President, trying to figure out how the bill would meet the demands of the labor movement and the Supreme Court. A minister of wood has answered that question to some extent. As the members of Congress are well aware, biographies even came to pass. reality as a result of government support to those with certain measures that were carefully listed in a document published by the Council of Government. In the 11th issue of this list, we will discuss the matter of housing, and that will be discussed, with the permission of a president: A tenure law will be reviewed to improve the legal status of tenants, including tenants. for the protection of tenants when it comes to raising rent height and improving rent rights by the end of a contract. These suggestions are based on the campaign group that served here some years before the government and is outlined in the bill. Of course, I take valid answers to the highest degree. Web Minister for asking why. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll, son of Jóhannsson, as to how far this bill goes. But I come up here with a positive mind. It can be interpreted as being a first step and the need to collect information. I don't share that need because I think it's part of the problem of a housing market how little information we've had on the structure. It's changing, and there we've moved the Housing and Civilization Institute to provide information and to have a perspective on building a place all over the country. I agree that a similar perspective is needed over rent contracts in the country. It is very important to keep it up on rural planning and organization for the support of the State in building facilities in the country. On the other hand, I noticed that in the bill's report on biographies, the carer's company - which returned at the beginning of 2019 and his product came to some extent into the government's promise on the basis of social and child care agreements - has then been ordered by a judicial committee to reimburse the legissies to follow the initiative groups, and this is listed as being on that committee and that the role of the Committee was. " Just taking the suggestions " No. 11, which I read earlier, and 13 in a government report on housing issues for further reviews and subsequent legalizations. What happens then, and what interests me, it is that the bill prepared at the Department of Social Affairs, and presented in government consultations in February 2020, will be discussed in a group of conferences or the work group of the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as in the Minister's Committee on conformity. In that case, if I read this report correctly, in line with the Minister's Committee, the emphasis is being suggested that the bill take the lead in motion of No. 13 Emphasis on registration of contracts in public databases and developed ways to encourage parties to make information about rent prices and length of contracts available, e.g. by binding tax reimbursement due to long-term deposit on databases. And here we see the bill that created this transformation. But I still miss the commitment made by the government during the spring months of 2019, and I read here from a document issued by the board to improve the legal status of tenants and the protection of tenants when it comes to an increase in rent prices. For good reason. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson mentioned the rent roof that has been mentioned and is a tool used in our neighboring countries. It is certainly not designed in a different way. But we also know that we need special protection from tenants, such as the law now, far more vulnerable to housing markets, and with much less security than those of us who have our home. Between that there is heaven and sea. It is only time for us to take the step in harmony with what is being done in our neighboring countries and to ensure the well - being of our families in our country, especially of the single mothers mentioned in the introduction. Minister, in a tenet with children, and government officials see to it that any way in which a contract price can be screwed up is not possible. I come up here to remind you of this, and also to remind you that the recently called biographies will expire in the fall. It is reasonable to expect that the priority of the labor movement will be to cross the interests of the government to negotiate when it was made up for about a year ago. Three years. I'm going to predict that to provide rent protection and housing security for tenants at the labour market will be very high on paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u62	A respectable president. We're here to discuss changes in rent law, very important changes involving the implementation of registration due to contracts in public databases and Homemaking and Human Resources agencies provided by fines. I take to heart what is stated in the bill's report that such official registration of contracts should be able to make major analysis of the rent market, and to assist the government's targeted decision in housing policies. I think this is taking an important step and setting up the basis for further intervention by the government in the future, a reasonable intervention to ensure that the market works for everyone. You see, markets work best when they're reasonable, when they're not such that one person has a higher standing with the other party, etc. In Iceland, the lease market has established a crime now in Covid. But there's a glitter in the air. We have begun to see rent prices rise faster than prices, and this trend is likely to progress as tourists increase, apartments return to Airbnb rent, and the economy continues to take over. In recent years, prices and rent prices usually observe in the long run and the crazy developments we have seen in real estate markets should give us reason to consider the status of those renting, all of whom are equal to a much inferior financial status. There's more than 20% of registered homes, the majority of which are underpayers. The situation of this group has deteriorated since 2006, but the status of the housing owner has improved, particularly as a result of growth decline in recent years. Today, this is the case, on average, with 45% of renters and a substantial proportion of tenants having excessive loads of rent, we must be able to agree on it. The OECD data also show that the status of low - paying tenant workers in the Icelandic tenants is unusually bad and not in any way consistent with the general economy of the nation. Worldwide rent is high, and rent payments have not followed the rise in rent these past decade. In addition, public expenses due to rent payments are relatively low here compared to the major neighboring countries. I hope, therefore, that we can unite in making rents or mortgages, as they are now known, raise considerably in the coming years as we take action to stem the unbridled rise in rent markets. In Comb 4. The bill we're discussing here today is recommended on wood if contracts are not recorded or if rent increase is not recorded. Government fines are expected in the state fund because of such offenses. I have some doubts about the effect of these measures as they are designed in the bill. I wondered, " Would it be better if it was just a bank of money for the violations that would come to the tenant as a down payment on the rent? ' Thus, direct financial gain and active motivation would be needed to comply with the registration requirement. That would be one way. Of course, this is the case in the 37th chapter of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? A current tenure is already recommended to be reasonable and reasonable for both parties - it is a rather interesting expression, it is always fair; in some cases, it must be unfair or unnatural. Let it be between parts. The problem, however, is this 37th par. is a dead letter. This is an article that has no real function here. However, the bill suggests changes that further explain what is involved in reasonable and normal rent levels. That, together with the registration rights and guilty clearances, should lead to giving this article some serious meaning. Remember, though, that in the bill there are no laws due to illegal rent increases. The penalty is just because of violations against the registration rights itself. Of course, whether to go further in this regard can be wondered. Similarly, I reiterate the views presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotir, and perhaps part of my countertranslation earlier, i.e. I think that to meet this group in a bad position at a rented market, you need to set some kind of rules directly to protect people from excessive increases in rent height. Important steps are taken in the bill, but this is not consistent with what was observed in the biographies agreements, i.e. in the declaration of the government, which was published during the signing of biographies. It spoke of a special protection when it came to a rise in rent height, and I think that it would be outback to think that the subject of this bill is in harmony with that. It is obvious that the labor movement expected a tenet or a tenet, as is the case with people in many parts of Europe. So I think the next step, whether this particular bill or with another bill, hopefully as soon as possible, must be developing a sizable lease in Iceland by e.g. that rural society is given some clear permission to control the rise in rent height, whether it is rural or human activities, any cooperation there, a minister's Regulation - there are various ways of implementing this and I think that what has been best in neighboring countries should be considered. Right in the end, because we talked earlier about building up into the general apartment system, it is, of course, so that while temporary failure was made to have stock production carried out, it doesn't justify the running of the stock industry over the next two to three years. Reykjavíkurborg does, for example. expected to increase the supply of weights, and in fact double the distribution of weights, during the next terms so that a build-up of approximately 2,000 apartments. In fact, the city's forwarding squad, which is not likely to belong to the greater part, has said that its weights should be distributed up to 3,000 apartments a year. Then it will really matter that there will be a state-of-the-city stock contribution to the improvement of a part of that housing structure on social grounds. Reykjavíkurburg has e.g. The policy is that at least 25% of each area's housing buildings are spent on social housing and to maintain this stress policy must not be summed up when it comes to public support for social security, the general housing system, we can agree on that. I hope this is going to be done, if not already done with a financial plan at the council on this round, then at least in the next one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u63	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in organizational laws regarding infrastructure structure. The bill of the same material was submitted by Environment and Resource Minister at the 151th legislation but failed to succeed. The bill is based on the proposal of a group of workers assigned to the work of a team of campaign reformers following the storm storm that took place in December 2019. The proposal of the work team was presented in the government's consultations. There was also a plan for the legislation and a plan that the bill was presented in government consultation before the bill was presented to the 151th legislature. At the same time, the comments on the bill at that assembly have been developed. Minor adjustments have been made in the few aspects of the bill since the last donation, as detailed in the report that follows the bill. The government's treaties highlight green energy production, especially in energy exchange. To this end, the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country need to be more reliable, closer to key areas, and ensure that electricity delivery across the country. Therefore, it is important to speed up as much as possible the management of the decisions associated with the line layers. A storm broke over Iceland in December 2019, December 10, and it did a lot of damage. Travel failed, and the job life became paralyzed in areas that suffered the worst. A large number of problems arose in the electrical transport and distribution systems that had secondary effects on communication systems and resulted in a lack of communication with the outside world in large areas. As a result, the then ruling government ordered a group of six advisers to evaluate the action required to promote the infrastructure of electrical and telecommunications and telecommunications systems of MRV as well as to examine the distribution systems and attention of transport and settlements on a broad scale. One of the initiative groups was assigned to support and processing was offered proposals for the simple licence procedures of electricity transport systems, which have been shown to have caused a potential delay in the preparation of such projects over the last few years and thereby delay the necessary development of the electricity system. The bill suggests adjustments in organizational laws, No. 123/2010, in connection with the development of electrical transport systems, for the performance of electricity transport systems covering more than one rural community. It is suggested that a validate be allowed to adopt a joint planning strategy involved in the electricity transport system planned in two or more rural areas. Such activities can be carried out in current legislation to require changes in the main structure and implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the local organisation. If there is a regional structure, changes may also be required by the arrival of all the rural members involved. Thus, there is increased efficiency in allowing one joint planning decision to be implemented for such a project. The bill, as mentioned earlier, suggests that legislation be made on the basis of a joint strategy for the implementation of electricity transport system across rural boundaries. Such joint planning will be carried out in the hands of a special electronic committee appointed to represent all the rural communities to whom the decision of the respective organisations is to be met. The Committee also has a representative for the Agency to ensure professional knowledge, both its planning and its assessment of environmental impacts. A candidate is expected to take the initiative in asking a minister to appoint such a committee. The Commission's request should be made at the pre-prepared level and prior to the formal procedure, under the legislation on the environmental assessment and the planned schedule. The primary role of the electrocardiogram must be prepared and agreed with a strategy for the procedure, a joint implementation and oversight of the procedure. The members of the local organisation are responsible for monitoring the implementation and on the basis of a collaboration agreement with the electron Committee. In terms of the costs of planning and implementation of the Commission it is expected that the recruiter will be subject to the service fee. The Agency, represented by the Committee, will handle task management and contact with managers. The implementation of environmental assessments will be formally unchanged, but the environmental assessments work together and integrated planning. With the executives, the public, the stakeholders and consultations, there will be one common appearance and means of communication. In English, this has been called a 'one-stop-hop'. With such a joint strategy for electrical transport projects, there will be a better opportunity to provide an overall assessment of individual geological components, cr. Article 9 of Congress taint No. 26/148, the government's policy on developing electrical transport systems, will be carried out in the field of an electronic committee. An advertisement suggests that an electrical system will be advertised as well as given other options. An electronic committee is expected to alter planning according to the environmental assessment's final payment, as relevant options have been made in the environmental assessment process. On the basis of an electro-linear system and the results of environmental impact assessments, the electron Committee is expected to provide a joint implementation permit. If the committee does not establish a joint decision, it is suggested that the case be referred to a minister of the law, who will make the decision to choose options and conditions to be carried out in an orderly manner. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u64	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in shipping duty law, No. 41/2003. With laws on sailing watchpoints, No. 41/2003, the center of the bill was set up in Icelandic economic law. Under the law, the watch station has the responsibility to provide ships that sail through the Icelandic economic legal history of security, which include monitoring and monitoring of the automatic reporting systems, the receipt and communication of reports from ships that carry hazardous and/or contaminated goods, the receipt and distribution of emergency calls to relevant parties, as well as reports of accidents or accidents at sea and the monitoring of international emergency and security systems. This bill suggests five changes in these laws. In 1st. The bill is provided with three modifications to 2.g. The law. First of all, it is suggested that 1st mg be added. that the purpose of the law is to ensure sailing protection. According to 1st mg. Section 4. Law on Marine Protection, No. 50/2004, we have a patrol station set out among other institutions with a cruise protection procedure. A monitoring station plays an important role in securing safe sailing in Icelandic economic law, safety of ships, passengers, and crews, strengthening the protection against marine pollution. In view of this, it is considered reasonable that the Marine Control Act, No. 41/2003, containing a reference for this role. Second, it is suggested that we make arrangements. The role of sailing watchpoints adds new letters to the role of the center in receiving information on waste and the remains of ships. This is a project based on Regulation No. 1200/2014, for the receipt of waste and cargo residues from ships. A patrol station today receives reports of this sort in the ◯SaeeaNet-based database on which it operates. Is it correct that this role of the watch station is mentioned in the marine watch station law? It should be noted that these two changes have to do with projects that are already being carried out by the ship's watchpoint. So the network is not being assigned a new role. Third, a 3 mg change is proposed. 2.g. The law that the Road program will be authorized to make a service agreement on the operating of the shipping post. Is this in harmony with what has been practiced since the execution of the law? So today there is in the value of a service contract between Iceland's Siginga Agency and the Emergency Line on the operation of the watch station. The agreement was originally made to the age of 10 but has been extended, and the road has taken over when a Navigator Institute slipped into the Road Building. Today, the emergency line is handling the monitoring and communications systems that are part of the operations of the watch station according to a service contract. In 2016 the disaster line then made an agreement with Iceland's National Relations for Service on the implementation of the Convention on the Marine Control Centre. The meeting routine is temporary, but can be said at 12 months' notice. According to this, the Management Board of Iceland's National Reservation Guard is conducting all of the project posts. So today, the duty of the watch station is divided between Iceland's Emergency Line and National Reservation, but the Emergency Line is responsible, financially and professional, to the Roadmaker for the service required to provide under Marine Control Act, No. 41/2003, and the requirements for activities. 3 mg. 2.g. a law on the marine watch station says that the roadtype is authorized to issue shipping duty stations. The commission is to divide the invitation into a few things. It is considered appropriate to make a change in the law of the watch station for sailing, so there is a warrant for a service contract or service contracts on this business. The Agency will then be authorized to negotiate some of the elements of the posts. There may be one or more agreements. A patrol station plays an important safety role in shipping the country. Its work is based, among other things, on international transport commitments. It is a special project that requires special communication systems and special knowledge. There is no evidence to require that the road structure maintains this fundamental operation of the state in the area of sailing safety. It should be noted that this arrangement harmonizes with the law on public shopping, No. 120/2016. Two. The bill is submitted to a change of 3 mg. Section 5. The Act that the amount of annual fees that the owner of each ship should pay for services in the automatic notifications system will be specified. Is this done to ensure that the application of this price is in accordance with the score of 40 and 77. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, which commands that tax taxes be imposed only by law and that it is not permitted to hide the government's decision on whether to submit taxes, alter or eliminate them. In 2003, on a sentence of a ship's watch station, this was a fee in the form of a service fee. The change in law in 2018 suggests that the annual bill has changed from being a service fee to being tax. Is it right, then, that the law dictates the amount of the pay? Is suggested that a year be $14,000. In the last ad on the currency of sailing watch posts, No. 265/2016, the rate per year is 10,500. This suggestion aims to maintain the cost of changing prices. Finally, a change to Article 3. The bill means that a new paragraph will be added to Article 7. The law. Seven. it is required that ships be notified before starting port. According to this article, ships of 300 different sizes and sizes, except for land marks and fishing vessels of less than 45 meters to sea must announce their arrival to the shipping post at a specic premium. It is suggested that the new paragraph states that a passenger ship with the same size as a cruise between countries should inform the post on a planned route to the next dock with a speculative notice set in the Regulation. Iceland's diplomacy has pointed out that ships who sail between countries do not always go directly to their next port. They sail for a funeral on sightseeings and even by stop and let passengers ashore without turning in. Such shipping and landings are not reported, and the watch station does not always know about the programs of these ships that could pose a threat. It is true that this ship will inform the watch center of the way they intend to go. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that, following this discussion, it be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee as well as the 2nd Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u65	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I recommend a proposal for the resolution of a policy-making program for the period 2022 26;2036. The prehistory of the proposal presented here can be traced back to 2015 when the General Assembly agreed to agree with the Legislation and Application Programmes, No. 69/2015, with a high priority for consultation and coordination with other programmes. In June 2018, the Allied Council adopted a policy-making program for 2018,2024, or 7 years of age. Soon thereafter, the law of No. 53/2018, which shall state that the minister should have at least one Three-year proposals for the General's resolution of a 15-year decision-making programme and a five-year plan of action. The aim of the law for regional planning and application programmes is to promote urban development and increase consultation between regional employment practices within each part of the country and between administration points and to move to rural management increased responsibilities in urban and community development. The legislation shall, under the law, describe the state's policies in regional and social coordination with other policies and public planning. It says, by permission of the president: The main objective of the programme shall be to match the opportunities of all the people of the country for employment and services, to balance standard of living and to promote sustainable development of countrywide. Special attention should be given to areas where people are chronically depressed, unemployment and monotonous jobs. Based on the Minister's Office, work on community development is leading to a review of the current strategy by consultation at Hafnarfnarfjörður in June 2020. The participants at that meeting were representatives from all national parts of the community, the European Union of Iceland, representatives from all councils through the board's board of directors of regional affairs, as well as several members of the General Assembly were recognized. The work was then done by the staff of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, later by the Ministry of Residents, and the Office. Compatibility and coordination have been a guide to that work. The scheme has even been established. The number of meetings that have been held, both in the way of locals, called green books, and in the direction of the so - called white book, is presented. For example, every part of the country's community and the European Union were found at least twice. Furthermore, meetings were held with generals and counselors of all practicers, but a number of experts with the advisers were noted. Synchronization appears even in close collaboration with responsible members of the other national liturgies looking for ways to link based policies most closely with other public policies and plans. A board of directors of community affairs plays a key role when it comes to the coordination of government plans. It was offered open consultations on the websites of the Agency and on both places, a green book, and a plot of policy, a white book, were put forth by government consultations on the website island.is where economics and the public afforded the means to address their viewpoints and comments. There were 18 reviews everywhere, 34 reviews, and reviews of policy patterns. The reviews were generally positive and upbuilding. Some could fail by bringing their material into a white book, i.e. The course, on the one hand, and the synopsis. There will be reviews of experiences of other work reviews in the implementation of community planning. The main criticism was that a White Book plan was not outlined for financing. On the other hand, a proposal for a judicial hearing suggests that a budget is based on a structured plan. Counctition of a decision-making strategy for the year 2022/2036 were introduced and approved in the government of June 4, 2021, and submitted to the General Assembly in the same month as requested. It was 1849, 872, but it wasn't done. The synoptic proposal presented here has changed with regard to a new government contract and a change to the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. The changes remain in close consultation with the Ministry and agencies as well as with the European Union. The changes have then been presented to the national part of society. V.E.G. President. It is worth expressing appreciation for all those involved in this process of preparation and consultation. Their contribution is important to the value and content of the plan. Similarly, I want to express special satisfaction in how many rich and detailed references were made to the Board of Management, both in the work of green books as well as in the White Book work. In my mind, they confirm that high expectations are bound to be effective in this area. Based on the government's voice, most of the state's lawsuits are subject to the Ministry of Government, which has to do with all the Ministry. The programme is an important tool for governments at any given time to influence the progress and shape of national and regional policy. The Icelandic urbanisation and groundwork are based on legal primary objectives to balance facilities and promote sustainable development. Special attention should be given to areas with long-term decrease in population, unemployment, and the monotonousness of employment, as mentioned earlier. Governments have been working on these objectives by using a variety of non-based programmes, such as transport, education, health and employment. Thus, the impact on geographic matters is far more widespread than the basis of the design alone. A law on nationalisation and application programmes also states that a structured strategy should describe cohesion with other policy measures and the public planning and consultation with the Ministry, rural society and their national organisations. To cope with the challenges faced in urban development, five key elements are proposed to be developed, which are as follows: 1st Demographic development and baseline services. 2. Different forms of employment. 3. We'll be inside. 4. Environmental and climate issues. 5. International competitiveness and sustainableity. The growth of the management level and the non-inferiority criteria will be associated with the release of these challenges. The government has great ambition in regional affairs. Its declaration reveals this and the plans of an individual minister, which included: published in a financial program for the next year. We believe that much of this land is in a more prosperous land and that its inhabitants have access to services, employment opportunities, and living income all over the country. We want people to have real choices about where they live and work. So we focus on supporting the fertile environment throughout the country so that the vegetation of industry can flourish, and new creative thinking can attract new opportunities. At the same time, we'd like to ensure that an equalizing state in access to health and social services as well as educational tools and use the appropriate telecommunications. In order to support regional development and freedom of choice, jobs in the state will not be localized unless the nature of the work requires specifically and will be set as a goal for the proportion of public jobs in the country. In addition to securing a competitive environment for employment, we will support the work position and the civil and private stabilities of the country and will use economic motivations in rural development, including the U.S. through the student's education fund. We want Iceland to be on the front of modern infrastructures, progressive services, valuables, equal quality of life and a strong rural population that can handle local projects and provide economic and good services with the aims of sustainable development to guide the inhabitants. Basic services will be given to the inhabitants of the surrounding community as much as possible. We want to work with the strengths of individual areas and to be careful to interact with urban and rural areas in order to develop a variety of sustainable communities. We want to strengthen the largest urban areas and to strengthen their competitiveness. This includes some. To shape policies that define the role of Reykjavík as capital and structure and the role of Akureyri as an area city. We will continue to integrate settlements with other issues as appropriate. This will be an impact on the development of individual communities and habitats and will be reviewed in all the policy and planning of the government. I think that the main projects in the urban areas of the next few years are going to have to cope with a decrease in the number of individual areas, monotonous employment life, technological changes, and development and adaptations for individual sectores. We will also need to provide transportation and access to services, especially in areas in which our feet are fixed in this context. By doing so, we contribute to flourishing landwide. V.E.G. President. The Based schedule is now set out with clear targets and measures. The aims are three: First, to level access to services. It even hides. it will be added to the nearby community as possible or digitally and access to central services, whether by means of technical techniques or by reduction of the costs of services. Second, balance your opportunities for employment. It even hides. in which to improve infrastructure, such as communication, transportation, and delivery capacity and security in electronics. Furthermore, musculoskeletal systems contribute to innovation and infrastructure and opportunity to work in the public and private groups, independent of their habitat. Third, to promote sustainable development throughout the country. It even hides. in which economic, social, and environmental factors, growth in rural society, improve access to basic services, a wide range of employment activities, culture and recreation, which take into account the different status and needs of the population. In order to achieve these objectives, there are a number of emphasises that either lead to direct and defined actions or to coordination and support measures in other public programmes. All 43 of these actions are directly involved in their implementation. Thus, the aim is to ensure integration of based programmes into most topic areas and the plans of the State. The actions also involve many activities of rural society that strongly influence our efforts to implement this ambitious development program. There are nine criteria that will be used to assess the effectiveness and progress of the programme. Generally, the criteria are based on national components, but the main points can also be determined by rural and/or regional data. The average score is the percentage of those within 30 miles of the clinic, day-to-day store, play-, high-school, state-work ratio and forward ratio. The status of these factors will be determined at the beginning of the based protocol and regularly monitored for their change in time. Madam President. It is now important to thank local, national, and national organisations for an important contribution to the development of this program. I'd like to make a brief explanation of how we plan to achieve a co-ordination strategy with other policies and plans. Compatibility with other policies and programmes has been a guide in working with a review of the based strategy. The benefits of co-ordination are multiple and include in particular the possibility of better use of funds, increased transparency and cooperation in different grammatical groups of comparable or common emphasises and measures. Co-ordination allows maximising the effectiveness of public programmes at all levels of the administration and thus increasing the beneficial effects. Therefore, it is important to unite and ensure that all concerned persons will be resolved. It is important that there is a close consultation between recruitment, government institutions, rural society, employment and civil society in the implementation of regional policy. Among the measures taken in this regard are the following: Regular discussions in the government field, the Council's Management Board's management team will be strengthened, a service card showing national access to services and levels that will be maintained and accessible on the website of the Agency. Acquire and consult the European Union as well as national and national organisations, regular reporting to the General, systematic sharing of information on research, educational and international comparisons. I stress that the implementation of public law on government finances will be specifically discussed on localities. A respectable president. I have now traced the main outline of a proposal for a synopsis on the basis of urbanization of 2022/2036. There's a lot of consultation. Many have helped. In that way, we want to work, and this will result in success, especially in geographic areas. Finally, I suggest that after this discussion, the case be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u66	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate the future plan. This is a fine piece of paper, which is here, a detailed explanation, and more. This kind of plan is important, and it's supposed to be a celebration. I thought about it when we were listening to Selenskí at the council last week, but he wondered why the Russians were attacking the country, that it was because they were looking for the resources of the country and the country. And what were the resources? It was the dust and the human race. I think it's the thing that the entire country's resources are important to each country, depending on how we can use the resources we have, how we're doing as a nation, both in terms of independence and prosperity. It is a small nation in a large country, often referred to as one of us. We may be able to drive the ring in a 24 hour period, but this is still a relatively small rural land and population development in the whole country may not have been balanced. Throughout this century, we have been decreasing in two areas of land, in the West, and in the northern part of the West, although this trend has gone back from 2014. We've finally reached the plus number on the Westfjords, 2% and in the northern part of the West, because we've managed to use the resources available there. But we always have to look for ways to level services and balance facilities for all over the country so that we can continue using that resource. In terms of this community plan, it has been submitted since 2015, it provides the first basis for measures to settle housing conditions, health care, telecommunications, education and equal opportunities for employment, to name just one thing. Surely, all of us can agree on the importance of the land's flourishing with happy inhabitants, and the country's habitat is a major business that makes income for national preparation. There are many kinds of life in the country that require different approaches. But nothing happens on its own. We must keep our country strong, and then we must have a realistic structure. We spend 2 billion a year on projections and all kinds of structure to the country. That is why it is so important that we agree on where they flow, and it is organized to achieve a more efficient, more powerful human life. Government policies can be read once in regional languages. It is in coordination with other policy measures and the government plan and in consultation with the Ministry, rural areas and national parts of the country. Teamwork is the key to maintaining sustainable development around the country. V.E.G. Enforcement minister has proposed a World Council strategy for 15 years and a five-year plan of action. It is fundamental to making budgets, and it contains ambitious goals toward growing and prospering, not necessarily at the expense of the capital area, since it is important for all of us to have a strong capital capital capital that we can be proud of. In the developed program that is presented here, the United Nations World Goals are an important means of community development for years to come. The global objectives are integrated and integrated, forming a balance between the three support of sustainable development, economic, social, and environmental. It also includes five main elements: human beings, soil, prosperity, peace, and cooperation, which lead to the main convention, which is that no individuals or groups will be left behind. It is a lofty goal that all of us can agree on, and it is vital that we look to these goals as we look to a built - up program. That is why they fall so closely into a structured program, for it is vital that these pillars be respected as guides to extending equality to our home, according to our standards, and according to our principles of living laws that we compare with ourselves to. The way we are going to achieve this has been considered and the ways in which we are involved. I'm not going to repeat that, but I'm going to encourage everyone to study this foundation plan and how it's done. I'd like to go to the end and point to a nice novelty. The ambitional aims of the Icelandic government can be observed in a local, communications, and transport program on a new Web site held by the Ministry of Wetlands. It is a web that is under the domain of the road traffic.is a interactive information site where funding, progress and effectiveness can be monitored and the results of tasks are met. It's really nice to go in there and see. Sometimes we feel that we have only a few things done, but we can see it, when we go through the country, ourselves and when we look into it, what the result is. Thus we can observe, and I think this is an important measure into our next ground plan when we start working on it. It enables us to examine a particular plan and part of a plan. For example, for example, all national based activities and national planning and measures based on national parts of the country and for the development of financial or telecommunications. For interested persons on social policies and government initiatives in these areas, it is best to apply this site. I am convinced that after a five - year strategy and a 15 - year ground plan, we will be able to see a further distribution of the population, since we have increased 35% in this century. It may have spread differently through parts of the country. All areas have their resources and resources, so it is important that we maintain a more prosperous country all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u67	Madam President. I want in this context, when we discuss regional policy, just mention the perceptions of budget management, how important it is when we set our course if we want it to succeed and its goals. I would also like to mention a righteous green transformation that also counts for regional policy, viable, and flourishing earth wide. But only with regard to gender economy and budget. What is it now? On the surface, the law seems to look like the law. Be neutral. It does not mention women or men, nor does it account for differences in the effects of gender and their status, i.e. When we look at the numbers and the Excel documents. We've legalized it to explain the gender and equality issues in the budget and in the financial programme, and that's good, but we're gonna have to do a little better when it comes to this. We know that the budget differs greatly in the circumstances of women and men, with the aim of sensory economic management and funding, is to highlight the influence of the genders and, at the same time, search for ways to ensure equal and fair distribution of capitals. When you're talking about gender economy and budget, people might say, " It's just some bullshit, we just need a proper politics and a job, and we have to keep driving this thing. But it's just that sexual economic management is a very important part of regional policy. If we build, for example. If we do not see to it that there is good health care, good schools, and the setting for children to grow up and thrive, the women will leave. They move, and they take their children. The men would not long be alone in a place where there are no women or children. So it is very important, when we set down regional policy, that we look at these points and look at the budgets and financial programs, as if we're going to do here with a plan for the next five years, and then we'll look at the figures, the policies for the lawsuits and the lawsuits, with these glasses. Economics and budgets are based. It's urban, and I hope it's the highest. The inside minister is listening even if I don't see him here in the audience. Madam President. Another important issue is the green transition that we need to face. In order for green - building greenhouse gas emissions to be effectively reduced, the government needs to take the initiative and guide the way. This is about the energy exchange. It requires higher and more targeted subsidies, e.g. to electrical vehicles, to increase investment in public transport, investment in the economy and in food production, and to promote green administration and implement a green investment plan. You see, there is no social decline in rapid energy exchanges and other changes in the way of life, unless the quality of the environment is guided and the costs of the transition are guaranteed, not to fall on the shoulders of income groups or on the rest of the population beyond anyone else's reach. Thus, it is obvious that the green transition is also urban, and it is also necessary to have the basis for considering how we are going to handle these major challenges that we will face and solve in the next few years. In the end, everyone must contribute to the battle against climate change and must ensure that the costs of green transformation do not increase on those to whom they have mentioned them. When we're getting involved in things, making them different, from the green views of things, there are opportunities, and we can take care of those changes. We should take steps toward that change by making sure that these steps become righteous and that the principles of living are guided. It has often been said here, when talking about carbon pay or finding ways to get contaminated, that is exactly what people need in many parts of the country. These are sectoral and reliant people who rely on carbon - rich economy in many countries and facilities, and they need to take on an enormous amount of economic and social customs because of the necessary action in the interests of the transition. The same can be said of the technological revolution, the green transition, and the automation. Of course, the technological revolution is to increase the equation, allowing land to flourish, and there is the possibility of creating, by these changes, of attractive habitat conditions throughout the country. It must not be so, Madam President, that certain settlements will be left behind. But because of the highest. The minister is now in the hall, and I want to give two emphasis: It is important that the committee, in turn, be well motivated by a sensory management of the budget and the green transition and self - efficiency and make sure that no area is left behind when the two are involved. It also supports welfare services, and it has to be human and financed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u68	A respectable president. I want to, like other senators, to start by thanking for the good work that the groundwork is, it's important and good document. I think it's work to make it and deal with it, the discussion about it, immediately has a good effect. So we have a very good case here. Thus, the agreement alone is not the norm; it is this work and thought; we are creating this standard and discussing how we will remain in the community. I just agree with what. Harðardóttir It's important to keep all these factors in mind that there's no outside, that everyone has the same chance and that we're following the frequency wind every time we build it up. We will take that to heart. Environmental and Transport Committee. What's also good for a groundwork plan is the goal of integrating plans. It is also necessary to integrate policies and emphasis and to eliminate the problem groups, recruitment and institutions, etc. I often feel that we have clear evidence that we have many goals, many plans, and many policies, but somehow it doesn't always go together. Thus, it is a small project that every emphasis on communication is once more shared by the government. This can be mentioned in many matters. Congress proposals and legislation and other factors have been proposed to promote the unity of rural society, to strengthen the communities together, and that is well. It's good to do more control units and other things. But in order for it to be accomplished, we also need to build up the infrastructure that has to do with that transport plan. There are many very important transport infrastructures that are essential to uniting the communities. However, transport may be the fastest contributing factor, increasing equality and opportunities, increasing access to welfare services or basic services such as studies, etc., so everyone sits at the same level. Transport is also important to strengthen the sector, the distribution of tourists, and many other things, so all of this needs to be discussed. We also have energy policy. We've got plans for energy change as well. paritaprevir It was also the case with Oddný Harðardóttir. In order for energy exchange to take place, the distribution and transport systems of electricity need to be good and adequate energy is needed. This was shown in just another plan, and government policies, in the green book, on energy issues. It also came into the community, where everyone sits at the same level of energy and energy that was spoken of as a sound and a picture. We have a energy exchange policy; we're talking about electrical security; we have green industry; we have the green carpet; we have a innovation strength in green energy solutions and that's how we could continue to count. But we just need details, and it's that we don't have enough energy to follow all these policies since we haven't been able to make enough of our energy. The energy available, and could be more efficient, could not be achieved because the transport system is not ready either. It was just a matter before this matter, trying to deal with it. Exactly what we're talking about here was so clear in this green book. I found this very interesting to me at the top of a green book. The Environment, Climate and Energy Ministers that those who called mainly for increased energy production and increased access to electricity were not major buyers of energy or energy manufacturers but of the National Community. It was the people, the representatives of the people who said, "It's absolutely necessary, so our community will not be reduced back in the welfare community, in the job structure, in the developing process, to get access to energy. What I've been trying to prepare here is that if we set our goals somewhere, we'll have to follow through on all other governments and measures. It's not enough to just say it in one place and think it makes that sense. This must be included in all the other programmes, whether it is an internal program, a transport plan, a regional strategy we deal with in energy policy and energy exchange commitments. We are here to have a powerful welfare community, and somehow it needs to be financed. Then there are these shallowwoods. If the infrastructure's all right, then there's so much else to build. This encourages these integrations, increasing the work area. These infrastructures allow people to move and build their companies, where it is most practical to run them, creating the economy and all of this. Then there is one more thing, and there are often legal issues in this. It's often that people want to build up jobs, but they can't get through the jungle of the jungle, i.e. to get work permit or to build or to use the innovation to which we strengthened it. We put money in an application schedule, put the money in the New Creation Fund or Technical Development Fund, etc. but there's some government shopping protocols or license protocols or strategy, or whatever it may be, the project will never be started. As a member of the country, I go through the country a lot, but as a member of the Independence Party, I have also made a yearly tour of the country and people on the scene. If I go up to one sentence what people say to us in the country, and connect them to the community plan and the regional policy we're talking about here, people will say, "Just keep the foundations, all these shallowwoods." Then we're talking about roads, electricity, communications, educational and health systems. Make sure you keep those things okay and stop messing around with us, and we'll make the most of it. We can save ourselves. You just have the groundwork. Take away all these complications and commands and bans. We don't need charity. We just need shallow wood. We need to be at peace, and then we'll be in charge of building our jobs, building our buildings, and creating valuables for this population so that there can be a powerful welfare system, increasing export value, and so forth. This is just what needs to be considered, to have a sound and a picture, and not to be in the trouble of hardworking people around the settlements, but to give them the foundation for a bright future in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u69	Madam President. V.E.G. The Minister of wood has presented his proposal for the resolution of policy policy in the development programme for the period 20222/2036, a comprehensive strategy. I'm going to stick to a relative market and a small portion of that plan this time. I'd like to go straight to Section B and under him a j-ye say, with President's permission: To achieve the aims of Iceland's noncarbonization, it will be responsible for the protection and binding of carbon in the soil by recovery of ecosystems, agriculture and forestry and by stopping greenhouse gas emissions from land by recovery of wetlands and sustainable land use. I'm telling you, it's been a while since that dot was written into the motion. I would like to quote from the National Institute of Agriculture of Iceland on April 7, which would include an article under the heading "A New Research on Carbon Emissions at the National Institute of Agriculture: Long - term carbon emissions from Exploitation is likely to be much lower than has been claimed. The article shows that the average difference between the Icelandic study and government claims, institutions and stakeholders on carbon emissions is 88.65%. This has long been called for a better examination of these matters, since they do not all buy the great things that have been done in this discussion for the past year and years, and there is now some evidence that people have had something to do with them in this discussion. Again, I would like to grab briefly down to the farm paper: If we put this in perspective with the EEA's statistics, the emissions from land use are not 9.07 million tons of CO 2-inclusive per year, but just over 1 million tons. If the Environment Ministry of 2019 numbers are used, Iceland's total emissions due to emissions of about 8.4 million tons of CO 2. Therefore, based on the new studies, only about 953,000 tons are sensitive to emissions.How much? We're used to error limits when talking to each other, but these are no ordinary margin. And again, Madam President, quote from the Bounty newspaper: ▪ These numbers must be screaming for further research to be done immediately next summer. This could also mean that all reports of emissions of CO2 from agriculture in Iceland are incredibly exaggerated. This must be the ideal representatives of this hall to take seriously, for under this propaganda has been a number of years now. We who live and work in the country and drive past the ditches in this number, canals taken up in 1940, almost complete in 1980, the country is going back up before the millenniums - this is all in these numbers. V.E.G. Although the minister of wood is not in the hall right now, he said that he would consider the questions I had to ask. So I'd like to ask the highest. Enforcement minister, whether there is any reason to take this J- force out of the synoptic arrangement while we are getting through the course ahead of and likely will take a considerable length of time, even years, because this is somehow meant to have been written into the proposal a long time ago and being, like some other aspects of the proposal, primarily to apply to all the boxes and to get as much of the most beautiful terms and beautiful words into the proposal. Likewise, Madam President, I would like to stay very brief with what is stated in this extensive council order. So it's under section C, g-joints. There, I noticed the following text, Madam President: ▪ It will be sufficient to provide a wide variety of housing facilities with an increasing number of apartments in areas where lack of suitable housing will interfere with normal development and development of infrastructure and employment. This is also a beautiful phrase that is easily understood. What I don't understand, however, would have wanted answers from the highest level. The minister of wood, is how the Ministry intends to deal with this case, because here we are entering the planning and organizational areas of rural society. So there must be some conversation between the secretary of the law and the representative of the Icelandic company. This is not something that the Minister or Ministry can do, bringing in some tools to implement this, although the goal is good, different from in full practice and in a good conversation with the representative of the Icelandic company. Just at the end of the day, Madam President, it's under the same section n-joint: ▪ There will be potential for the application of economic incentives as tools in rural development, such as the use of ideological legislation on academic education to repay student loans because of certain study articles and regions. This is also a beautiful sentence, a beautiful sentence. But what else? This alone is not enough. I've been through the motion, and there's something else. But there's absolutely nothing that a hand can hold, exactly what the top is. Web Minister means "torture." "Service" such as ◯. This exact point is stated more widely in this synonym, i.e. ... the use of the education fund for reimbursement of student loans because of certain study articles and areas, but I miss seeing a somewhat more decisive implementation of what will be considered on the part of the secretary of the wood. There are large chapters there for things like fragile parts that are designed to be similar in nature to other ancient projects, if I recall correctly, Western aid. I think it's all evidence that we're still trapped in this ideologies, i.e. to avoid getting into the whole thing. The aims of such tasks can be accomplished and achieved in a much simpler way, in my opinion, by general action. I want to say something. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason, who was earlier, who was saying something like: "Just keep the wood in order and don't get in the way. In the end, it may be a little something in the country to call for, that we no longer dictate these actions from this hall. In these last seconds, I can fit one idea into the discussion both British and Norwegian models: Is it not time to reduce curses in a country in these cold areas for people and businesses? It is the most simple operation the State can perform, and it does not cost any extramarital attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u70	Madam President. We'll discuss a proposal for a decision-making plan for the 2022/2036. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of law for the review and the opportunity to discuss this document here. I cannot ignore coming up here and describing my pleasure with the contents of this proposal. It reveals that it was a comprehensive process that many have come up with and have put on good ideas. Their proposals have been highly professionally processed, and these are offered giant steps, for our benefit, and especially for those who are particularly concerned about the affairs of the world. Here we are discussing the basics for all citizens of this country, equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contribute to sustainable development across the country. This sounds really good. This is what we want to do. Granted, there are chapters in this document that can be reasoned, and they wonder whether there is a need for sharper wording or another. But when I look at this, the big picture is that there is a very well - defined and powerful action in behalf of the inhabitants of this country. I'm gonna go into one thing that's been called a lot in my country and in the district, and I think it's going to be fundamental. I have found flying only under the radar how bold men are to meet new times and to meet in reality a fundamental factor in the equality of the people of the country, which I refer to in particular a talk that was being conducted here on the equality and status of women in the country, which is often a great challenge. I'm gonna jump over to section b, which is about equal opportunities for employment. It's unfair to go to a team on this program because, basically, they're pretty good. But I'm going to mention "B.7." which is about spontaneous jobs, for as I mentioned earlier, a fundamental policy change in thought, a great vision, and a great improvement will be achieved on the basis of what is presented here, by permission of the president: ▪ Target: That there will be an increase in the number of employment opportunities and multiplicity of jobs in the country. Short description: The state's operation will not be local unless the nature of the job requires specifically... This presents an enormous opportunity to distribute the work, to use resources better, and to meet people around the country. As I mentioned earlier, you can go to a few chapters and discuss this a lot. We are here to discuss the government's administrative headquarters in the region, how we are going to protect our ministry. We're talking about how we're going to get around the country with sustainability. There are very ambitious and well-defined suggestions, with well-defined links to other policies and plans, world goals, financing and partners. I'm gonna say it a good time. I believe that the journey as planned here will be the basis for great progress and development across the country and will give me great satisfaction with the document presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u71	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill for a new overall control protocol designed to replace the disease prevention laws No. 19/1997. On June 18, 2021, the current health - care minister appointed a team who were assigned to write a series of districts to cover full disease prevention and gave the group a draft on February 1. The staff appointed representatives of the main parties involved in the administration of public resources. The staff were members of the Department of Health, Department of Government, Justice, Disease Control, Land Hospital, Health Care of the capital, Addiction, and State Marshal's Office. The bill I recommend here today is composed by that working group. With a new law, there is a better way to explain the resources used by a psychiatrist and health - care provider because of the risk of travel to or from Iceland, within the country and because of the risk of transmission of infection by individuals. The aim of the legislation is to protect the public good, i.e. Protect the community and the life and health of individuals against infectious diseases and other health problems that the law does. It also explains the sources that governments have for government protection in accordance with the requirements of the legal order and the regulations of the Constitution. At the same time, it is a simple and clear administration of disease prevention. In 1997, a number of changes were made in the law during the past year in which it was necessary to explain some of the laws of the law on public alcohol control in view of the experience in the pandemic of Covid-19. This review of over a year, 2021, particularly considered by Páll the Hreinsson of Purge, a member of the government's request on the authority of a surgeon and health minister for public protection measures, in view of the principles of government rights and human rights regulations. The review of disease control laws was not in the work force of this class, the reexamination group. Nevertheless, the group pointed out that there is a basis for such a review in connection with the proposed overall review of the law when the pandemic would end. In general, the current epidemic laws have been very effective for us, but here we have a full reexamination to explain the specific aspects of the DC and provide more clear permission for the preventing measures. A respectable president. I'm going to go back to the main points of the bill and its viewpoint. First, the bill is aimed at ensuring the rights protected by a constitution by stating clearly what measures can be taken that may impair rights, in which case and in the context of a moderate court order. Thus, the aim is to ensure that such impairments will be supported by an acceptable legal authority and only done for the sake of public interest or for the protection of health or the rights of others. It is important that the sources of disease - control laws to compromise rights, in accordance with the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights, have the purpose of ensuring the life and health of people who are the most important protection in society and who are protected by the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. At the same time, governments have felt that if it is realized that there is a direct and predictable threat, it is a responsibility to handle governmental laws for the protection of people's lives and health. In the former view of Páll's work as a son of Hreinsson - minded people, the authority to prevent disease prevention, says the book Theocracy. that publicized control measures can limit human rights protected by the rights of the Constitution. In some cases it is enough that such restrictions be supported by laws to be considered authorized, but in other cases they must be in the interests of public interest for protection or the rights of others in order to be allowed. Finally, the public interests of defending oneself from epidemics for the protection of life and human health are considered to be the terms laid down in the Convention of Human Rights. It is, in fact, there. referred to 1 mg. Sixty-seven. ... abouta loss of freedom, also the restrictions on privacy, home, and family that are being made in 71. ... andpermanence of employment freedom, which is stated in Article 75. The constitution. The same can be said of the terms of the European Convention on Human Rights. Second, the bill suggests that there will be specific targets for the treatment of disease and disease laws. There is a degree of disease that has first specified infectious diseases, second serious diseases, and third, socially dangerous diseases. It is suggested that the government's resources for preventing disease should take into account the above phase shifts that are comparable to those observed. correspondent in Denmark In this way, only the most important measures to take are the socially dangerous disease. Third, changes in the administration of disease control are proposed. It is thus suggested that a surgeon be appointed by a minister, such as a surgeon and other directors and that his responsibility for the implementation of the disease is directly subject to the administration of a minister, not to a surgeon, but to a governor. Furthermore, there will be a new multiorganized administration, i.e. Special Disease Control Committee. Its purpose must be made a proposal to the Minister for Public Disease Control and Prevention for Socially Dangerous Disease and a recommendation for the definition of disease according to the code of the law, i.e. whether or not a disease falls under a social threat. According to the bill, the current SEC will be submitted and the work of the Council will be brought to the Pathologist and Disease Control Committee. Furthermore, a special authority from a pathologist is proposed to advise specialists on the role of a psychiatrist. Fourth, there are many changes made from the current law in the chapter of the bill that deals with government protection measures. Individual laws are broken up, and their presentation is simplified. There are also certain limits to the duration of official shielding measures. Finally, it is suggested that the conduct and monitoring of the General Assembly will be supported by public treatment programs and that the laws of the law will be updated in accordance with later years' legal development. As I said before, I believe that current disease control laws have been good for us in the pandemic. Covid-19 has tried most aspects of the law, but in the past, there were some changes that were important and necessary to be done on them in the past year. Yet, it is clear to everyone that the application of the disease - control laws can have and is affecting the daily lives of the people of the country and, indeed, on all aspects of society, their infrastructure, their activities, our culture, and most of our activities from day to day, and our social and social life, including all of them. I'm sure I could pick up more, but we've all experienced this, a respectable president. At the same time, let us keep in mind what the goals of the disease - control laws are and how important it is that they serve their purpose in times of trial, i.e. to protect the social, community, and life and health of the people with which society lives. In many cases, the treatment of disease - control laws affect virtually all aspects of the community of testing and the application of the law is close to the Constitutions of our human rights. Our mission is to put the disease - control laws to the best of its means in order to ensure that the objectives of the law will be fully met but at the same time that there is no closer to the Constitution than there is a reason and it is necessary. A respectable president. I have now explained the fundamental factors of the bill and suggest after this 1st. if the case is referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u72	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for his history, and thank him for offering the bill. It shall be admitted that before the administration of the Covid flag I didn't have much concern about the treatment laws, and I wasn't much to wonder about them, but I'm becoming quite interested in them. There are a few things I would like to have a very brief place to say to a minister as opposed to. First, I wondered, " Can I get along that the need is, in case of what? ' services committees, further strengthening the assembly's introduction to decision-making when it comes to the application of disease protection. When asked in such a way that it is thought that it would be necessary to impair the freedom of people on the basis of disease, it must be done in one way or another. I mention, for example. that in Britain, if I'm correct, people have made sure that special crown viral laws then made were revised at regular intervals by the council. It is a question of whether the council really needs to confirm its delay when it comes to preventing disease prevention, the decisions made by a travel committee and a minister. So my question to the minister of this first challenge is, Can we get together to find a way to strengthen the meeting's access to the application of the disease prevention when it needs to be applied?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli, Björn Kárason for the question. I think it's probably going to be a little debate at the scene anyway. The welfare committee. The bill went on consultation, and I know of comments from there, and this has been discussed here at the council. It is taking several steps here, but it is suggested that once Ministers have decided on the rules for the treatment of socially dangerous disease - there is also a new word on the decline of disease. There is much clearer in this bill what measures can be taken in relation to the definition of disease by the epidemiological committee and the Surgeon. Here it is quite clear that when such measures are taken, Ministers, according to events in agreement with the Presidency Committee, without delay introduce the World Health Committee to its decision and argument. This is a step toward it as fast as possible. There's a senator coming in here. A well - thought - out committee may also request a minister's presentation, although the rules have not been changed, such as the reasons for maintaining or relieving measures. Hv. A senator named Denmark, as well as Britain, and of course there are always questions, benefits and problems with everything in this world. However, the benefits for us have been, I think, clear throughout this epidemic, we have been relatively quick to respond with a small administrative committee and a clear decision-making process. In turn, however, the council may have been late discussing certain decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u74	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. There's nothing very far between us in these matters. However, I would like to go further and ensure that the assembly's arrival is more specific than what is being done on the bill and maybe we can get together in that regard. But I just want to focus on page 8. The bill and also to 16. ..... On the one hand, order a travel committee and, on the other, equal and average, etc. and what views should be viewed when using preventative measures. I shouldn't ask the highest question. A minister is surprising, and in effect comes into the minister's expertise, for this he is educated. Is it not proper to make arrangements in paragraph 8. to at least one of the committees has knowledge that involves socioeconomic views? Is it not necessary, in the same way as here are the nature of the case by self - appointed officials, that there is a knowledge of economics and sociology on the epidemic committee? This leads me to 16. and I ask if a minister can agree that when it comes to being equal and moderate - minded, it is necessary to point clearly to the fact that outside of the materialistic views, economic and social interests must be taken into account in evaluating the use of disinfectants. I think this too can be of great importance, especially when it comes to how we are living under society and for good and for good health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for good questions. Last year and later, he turns back from what I believe will be very up - to - date. The welfare committee. It was a lot of talk, and it was discussed in a discussion. Only about 8. and the Sports Committee. It clearly involves a greater degree of appeal for decision making than has ever been. It has to do with factors other than these epidemiological factors, which, of course, must be based on knowledge and proper requirements when we are in charge of this important office. But once we're putting this committee together, it is important for a psychiatrist to have this broad appeal about the effects on society and, of course, the definition of the situation, the disease, and the wise course to take. I agree with that. I'm referring to a legitimate order and we're always trying to clear up the process, and that's what we're looking for in the process and in the suggestions that come from these sources. In a sense, this is a similar way to the ones laid down in the Danish law I referred to. It is their goal to have this on a broader foundation, to build on socioeconomic knowledge as well. It is stated, if I do not fail less, in the report on each law. [[The president calls.]] The second part of the question was similar, but I can't help but quit right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u76	Madam President. I'd like to first mention that this bill will appear at a good time. Since we have just gone through a pandemic and health care program, we have good opportunities to discuss matters that must be discussed on a welfare committee. We've just been through these things, and that's why I'm saying this bill is coming up at a good time. But the opinion that I feel is that there are a few things I can see. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned them here. First, it's the International Assembly Hallis entrance. A little discussion has been made here at the council Hall, whether it should be greater or smaller. In the 18th. discusses the information related to the government. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ When Ministers have decided on the rules of rules. Twenty-eight and thirty. And when they are captured, he shall, according to events in agreement with the SEC, immediately present his decision, its basis, and its argument. Further, a well - thought - out committee may request a minister's presentation, although the rules have not been changed, such as the reasons to maintain or defuse measures. The secretary, following an incident in agreement with other government ministers, shall inform the General of the Sacrament Action Programme with monthly reports. For more than two months, the procedure has been completed. Madam President. I believe that on welfare committees this will be a lot of discussion. The group preparing this bill refers to new epidemics in Denmark that were approved last year. It discusses the arrival of the Danish Assembly of certain disease - control programs. Their principle of law is that a minister can set rules for socially dangerous diseases that may include coded diseases. There is a limit to meeting and arrangements on the border. He can't do that unless he has put the principles in place before the Senate committee and that the Council Committee is not opposed to them. An urgent threat to public health may be removed, but a minister must lay down the rules without delay for a Senate committee and if the Council Committee objects, the rules should be canceled. It is evident that it is the Denmark Congress that carries the heat and weight of these decisions, the Council of Decisions, on official anti-pyretic measures, but, in the opinion of the staff that prepared the bill, it was not a reason to go so far on the land. They even roll. to the responsibility: Who, then, is responsible? It is not the minister who is responsible for decisions, but it is the council. Furthermore, the work force was assessed that by making these decisions to the Council, they would be a complete variation in nature from the fact that they were based on professional views of the political scene. Actually, I think it's a bit of a special wording. Although a minister is certainly capable of taking professional advice, we here at the council are also capable of doing so. It is important, Madam President, that by this law we, as a surveillance agent, have some way of involved in the decision-making process. But there is a question of what form it should be. Of course, there may be times when action must be taken by one, two, and three, and it is impossible to bring together a council to accept or refuse the action. However, it must somehow ensure the entrance of the Generals and at least the discussion of disease prevention and its consequences for the economic and health of the country. It is said that he will be appointed by the minister directly by the Board of Directors of Diseases. Some have left their fingers in this and said that it is strange to have a provincial surgeon who is appointed by a minister and also to have a D.A. surgeon appointed by a minister. Isn't it normal to have it the way it is now, that a surgeon's ship is a psychiatrist? Then there are other experts who say, "It's just fine. Let's keep it this way. One who wants to go further is Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, who has a good knowledge of these matters. It says that the bill can go further and take both the field of disease control and public health from the governor and set up a public health and health care center under the control of a Center for Disease Control. Sigurbjörg believes that such preparations would strengthen the structure and maintenance of the health system, and this may be the case. I believe that on the welfare committee, we carefully review that idea, both as it is presented in the bill and also a discussion of whether to go further as Sigurbjörg suggests. Then there is the epidemic committee that was discussed here and why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson also had a place to say. A health minister about it. The decision to bring down the disease prevention will be considered, and people will likely wonder whether there is some accumulated knowledge of knowledge that will be lost and worse and not professional enough to resort to the advice of the experts here and depending on the way winds blow or what problems exist. But we'll talk about it on a welfare committee. The rest is a epidemic committee. It is expected that a travel committee will be assigned by the committee of three advisers and one without appointing, as well as by a surgeon, a state police officer, the director of the health care of the capital area, the director of the Land Hospital and a psychiatrist. A traveling committee has a role other than the Center for Disease Control, and it has been noted that it may not be advisable to have a treatment committee with such an important role but only two experts, i.e. A pathologist and surgeon. Disease prevention measures, e.g. It should be noted that if many special interests are placed on the committee, they may become more conflicting if other interests than disease control may outweigh the benefits and determine the decision of a travel committee. If there is a difference within the committee, the terms of the outcome and the value of a disease - control doctor are no more than those of others if votes match them. I think the committee needs to take a good look at this, what this might mean. We were naturally very lucky with a pathologist, and we took his advice, but in view of that, I don't know if this pose is reasonable enough. If a case report of infectious diseases suggests that serious disease spreads, it should immediately alert a minister and a travel committee. The minister should be as quick as possible to ask for the position of the Prosecutor on whether a serious disease should be identified as a socially dangerous and epidemic committee is also permitted to take the initiative to suggest to the minister that disease should be classified as a socially dangerous disease. It may be, Mrs. President, that what is suggested by a thirst committee, both her orders and her interaction with the psychiatrist's decisions, is too heavy and we have to go over it. Madam President. Finally, I would like to give special attention to comments from a child's agent. Children's manager has specifically noted that experience has shown that the pandemic, and especially the official prejudicial measures, has had a major and serious impact on the well - being, status, and rights of children in Icelandic society. A manager is sorry that the plans of the Ministry of Health for this bill do not mention children or the children's covenant, which should be considered in the same way as the European Convention of Human Rights. The principle of the children's covenant is to give special consideration to children as a vulnerable group, and the contract guarantees basic rights that are even independent of adult rights. The Children's Department states that children have the right to the best health care available and that any decisions about child health should be made based on an overall assessment of their best interests. Then it is important that children be included in decisions that concern their health and that all the suggestions and changes in the field can influence children from their own interests, rights, and needs. Thus, the Children's Department requires that the impact of decision-making and paediatric action be carried out before they occur so that a potential adverse effect can be avoided and counter-argulating measures can be taken in situations where such effects cannot be avoided. Children's agent believes that these requirements are not met in the bill, at least not the way it was in my consultation. Children's manager also feels that it is necessary to make special decisions and actions made in the bill and to provide care for children to build on their best interests and to look to the Swedish Centers for Disease Control. Regarding general standards of disease prevention, it says that any disease prevention that affects children should be taken into account in their best interests. It is also necessary to state in the bill that prior to a child's premeditation program, a specific assessment of their impact on children should be performed on children. This is especially true of the limitations of school and leisure activities. And I believe that a welfare committee will bring an emissary of children before this bill goes back into the Senate room to 2rd. Now, Madam President, I have to admit that I have not read the bill, but scan only for what I thought would be considered. Of course, we will carefully review each article. The bill may have benefited from some changes since the onset of the first signs. If we find a fault on the bill, we'll carry it, senators to the ground. A welfare committee, hopefully a good luck to change them in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u77	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a nice tour with a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir. Hv. A senator made very clear the opinion. I'm sure the welfare committee will put their arms around it, I can agree with that. The management committee will no doubt call for reviews on these factors, and this will definitely be shown in the reviews, the issues involved in these factors. A respectable president. I'd like to state that I may not have a personal answer, but I'm going to say the same thing. At the end of her talk, a senator, what she entered. In my history, I began to think that it had something to do with all aspects of society. We have experience in this epidemic that we need to take into account different groups and positions. Hv. A senator introduces the child - covenant and the European Convention, and the Constitution is very underlying in the bill. But I think it's very good to put your arms around this matter from a different position and to put your children in particular. We certainly tried through this epidemic, when we were making decisions, often making fast - moving decisions, to look out for our children, and to keep in mind what was being done in school and in the area where children are. Of course, it's part of human health, and we also tried to watch it through this epidemic. I'm gonna let myself say the same thing. Senator, it's very good to see you there. The welfare committee will take this into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u78	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this. Of course, he just came up here to make this statement, and in his case there was no particular question to me. But it's all right, I think, that we're going to consider the issues of opinion. Of course, in the case of disease prevention measures to protect health, they can have negative effects, as we have observed in the modern pandemic. One bad side is domestic violence that happened to the children. There was some tension between us. We need to choke this virus down, and people don't have to go anywhere and have to stay at home, so it's just gonna have to keep it out of their children's sight - or what? Can we do this differently? Then the decision to open the school was made, at least The school was also feeling guilty by the blessed children who infected the grandparents who then went to the hospital. There are so many aspects of disease prevention, its consequences, and how best to behave in this extremely difficult situation that society is placed in during a pandemic. There are so many opinions. It's a health standard, but it's also moral, bringing in parenting and philosophy and so many other things. We have exciting times ahead of us. The welfare committee is covering these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u79	A respectable president. The reason for this law is true, and it does not have to be long - cased. It is a long - standing pandemic that tested all laws and administration and the whole community and politics. This has enabled us to scratch ourselves successfully. But the question remains, What can we learn from this and how to use this lesson to strengthen the administrations and to prepare for the possibilities that we, of course, hope we will not come about is that we need to take similar action for an extended period of time. I think there was a great challenge that legislation and management and all organization did not anticipate this possibility, and so people were building policy in a very large way, with good results at the end of their lives. To this I have to say, I'm not quite sure that this bill alone, or even a review of the cross-cutting laws, no matter how they might be done, will address all the nuns that came up and the opinions that remain. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in with his answers, and his opinions are in line with that. the harmony between different viewpoints and how to look at the big picture. Governments, no matter where they are hosted or what authority they have, always watch a bit of narrow frame, and that's what they have to do, i.e. the centre of the disease control system and how to take action that reduces acute risk. It may be so important for others to take into account different interests and to adjust their measures when making burdensome decisions. What are counter measures? How do we reduce the damage caused by such pressure? It may be possible there, and I may miss it on the bill, that the CDC is assigned to set up the stage shots made by a psychiatrist in some cases, to give up different possibilities, and to analyze the picture. It could then include governments and perhaps counter other factors and be aware of the possibilities and the effects they will achieve. Or it may be possible to make a decision based on how different interests are weighed and evaluated. I realize this is harder than it sounds. It is difficult to predict the consequences of action, especially in such an environment that perhaps knowledge is being shaped just as quickly as it is constantly being handled with new circumstances. Yet, I still think it is quite realistic to consider. This may not necessarily be something that can be bound by law. This is about the cooperation within the government, the manner in which it operates, the infrastructure of data collections, and how the government uses it. At the same time, I'm going to go to the subject of the bill and stop for a reason. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir came in, who are the new recommendations to the minister of the vessel of a diseased physician, a matter of opinion there. From the data provided with the bill, both lyrics, articles, and other preparatory data, I do not fully see that the purpose is clearly explained. What problem is being solved? In what ways is this better happening? What subjects came, e.g. up in the current epidemic, which is supposed to be somehow better solved, or will work out better in the future? To say that in itself, I don't think itSigurbjörg all a bad suggestion - and I quote back what's Sigurgeirsdóttir. Harðardóttir It would be strengthened by setting up a special center around disease control, if that part were taken from the surgeon's office, and not just the DG's own DC, but something would be up to him. The models referred to and the arguments presented in the bill for a psychiatrist to hear under a minister are that it is comparable to those of other institutions. Then you start to think, " Why not make an institution of this so that it would actually be comparable? ' In turn, they will be given the position we expect to have in the future an important basis for experience. There, it would be possible to strengthen the decision - making process, and it will not be as short on a psychiatrist himself as it has happened, having a staff on its own. If people are concerned about some exhalation - I have not studied it specifically, but I suppose more staff would be able to recommend a pathologist. Governmentally, this might better explain the position of the government's competent authority. I think it would be better if a D.A.P. came out of the surgeon's office to have a special institution under it. There's another point I'd like to mention. Depending on the nature of the disease, it is different whether the pathologist or the epidemiological committee proposes a proposal for a minister. I can't see that there's a clear line on the bill, i.e. Why it's like that. In the 27th. a procedure to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases is the pathologist who proposes a recommendation for a minister. In 28. ... whichreflects the treatment strategy for socially dangerous diseases, which is then a more serious level, is the Committee for Disease Control that makes a suggestion for a minister. But in 29. The level of cross-border surgery is once again a diseased physician. I'm not entirely certain that this transition is designed to clear the administrations. I think it would be better if all of this were to be known as a multi-organized government, whether it is this NTSB or a special new agency or both. It's a good idea, but I just want to agree with other members of the council and also with the highest. A minister of himself who has emphasized that there are things to be done well when the bill goes to treat the problem. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u80	Madam President. I want to thank the Minister for his history. There's been a fine discussion on this subject. This is one of the issues that the nation all views. It was shown, in the wrestling we've had with the Covid epidemic, that they were many of the experts working in different parts of the community, and not just here in Iceland, but throughout the world. In itself, it is not unusual for invasive procedures to be taken in a very large number of cases and are still being performed. But all the numbers show that we did quite well in this, we did well. Overall, I think we can be pretty happy. But I agree with what's happened here, that this is a good time to present such a bill. Although we may still be working out the information and experience that we acquired after all, this is a nice time to go through this, and I assume that the welfare committee will cover the situation. I like Step 5. which refer to a minister of a D.A. Administrator's ship. It is a committee assessment, and perhaps not entirely up to the minister as such. I think that's the best thing to do. This is the person under the secretary's office. I think it can be just fine. Regarding what's been talked about here, and I think that's exactly what we need to do - there are certain factors that have been discussed with this Cooperative Committee on Disease Control, Sports Committee and her role, etc. I think there's a good reason to go into it. Among other things, it is suggested that the disease be divided, depending on its severity and impact, by means of a dance model. We are not entirely convinced that such a definition is needed, and perhaps in view of how successful we were in our fight with Covid-19. Of course, this is something the committee takes to heart. We also rolled up, as I hear more people do, and made a comment to this order of the NTSB. We'd like to see it arranged on scientific grounds, but not only by representatives of the established institutions, as this is suggested. It is not necessarily certain that these institutions are best designed to present a scientific assessment of the danger at any given time, so it may be more reasonable to make a more extensive interest evaluation. The overall impact, i.e., must also be assessed by the Ministerial Committee, or its agent. not only the effects of the disease or of the disease we are dealing with at any time, the nature of a case should be taken into account for other factors. We may want this arrangement, both for decision making and for the discussion, to be smooth and transparent. We need to build trust in these decisions, as we tried to do in the case of Covid-19. As we all had experienced, quite a few people had strong opinions about this. It's like a snowstorm, everybody knows how to shovel. There were very many who knew, and especially when the situation began, how best to make all of this together. I just wanted to come in for a minute. I also disagree myself with the approach presented in the bill on this command, i.e. that there is a medical facility outside the capital area and a reserve hospital or something like that is not there. I think that's one of the things you need to look at. That was one of the things we heard when we spoke to the representatives of the institutions throughout the scattered areas. It may be quite normal for decisions to be put under intense pressure, and sometimes they need to be taken quickly, in areas where the mass is, where the main project is, that it should only be done in the same place everywhere else. This is not always realistic, however, because there are different circumstances, with a more scattered population, etc. There's a lot to think about, and I think there's more to be. Indeed, it is clear that two more can be called, and this can include. represent the health institutions of the country. But I am confident that a health - care committee will review this and hear health - care views far and wide around the country regarding this aspect. It's a timely bill, and most of it's very good. It needs to be, according to the nature of the case, as large as it is, and as important as these laws are, that it is carefully reviewed, and the guests given to look at it. I trust that the points I have mentioned, and others have also done, will be carefully examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u81	Madam President. What a joy it is to be in heaven! A health minister should bring this bill into the council. I don't think there's any need to review the discussion when everyone was unexpectedly in the position that the legal arrangement could have been more relevant to the challenges we faced, i.e. working against a pandemic, and she could have been better, perhaps especially when there was a limit to freedom. Whether freedom of movement or freedom, it is the absolute right of all in a free democracies society that the right to all such measures is clear. So I'm celebrating this bill. I want to tell you right away that I really think that's for the better, that's in the right direction. There are some things I'd like to make up for talk. First, I'd like to mention the arrival of the Generals. It's interesting, and I think it might be for us to think, "How easy it was, in my opinion, Mrs. President, to adjust science and politics, or scientists and politicians, to contrast. It was quite brief that it also brought something bad or good. I don't want anyone to misunderstand me, that I'm demeaning scientists, not at all. However, that does not change the fact that scientists are not accountable to their people as politicians do. I'd like to mention this, Madam President, and I know that not everyone agrees with me about that, but for me, political responsibility is one of the most important principles and one of the most important security provisions of a democratic society. I'm not going to belittle the fact that there are politicians around the world who, unfortunately, chose to minimize their scientists or such, so in our local discussion, it may have been too much temptation to look at matters so simply. I think it was a shame. I think we, as in politics in general, should let the politicians and those in charge at any given time bear their responsibility, but, of course, it's supposed to be based on the very best information we have of the greatest scientific minds. To say this, I am delighted that the General Assembly has had a delivery of decisions about disease control and especially when there are steps for people's freedom. I welcome the arrival, but I miss a little bit of the fact that there's no further way in which the will would be clear and respect for where the responsibility for the people of the country lies after all, it's and should be with the democratic representatives of the same people. Many countries around us have taken further steps to leave the responsibility there. I would have liked to see a approach like that. I'm not going to belittle it, and I know the discussion quite well, as it is noted that because of the government's trilogy, Congress cannot bind the hands of a minister. I'd like to take that discussion more on the depth. I can't be a judge in this discussion, I'm not so smart in a administrative court, but I would appreciate that discussion interesting. I'd think this discussion would fit in with a welfare committee, if that were the case. I'd be interested to see if there could be a slightly more balanced approach, but of course, we're working on science, and there are some who make those decisions. No one is interested in complicateing that process in any way or in being some sort of obstacle when decisions need to be made quickly and carefully - as we know are often needed to deal quickly with such matters - but I would be interested in finding out if they were to do so. A welfare committee would want to adjust whether the establishment of the democratic vote might be slightly higher, having a little more security for the people of the country. I'd appreciate that. If the result of that spin is the same, I'll stop talking about it, but I think this discussion would be a great improvement. I'm going to stop by and stop talking about this little friend of the thing. I want to go over other things briefly, in the short time I have left. I'm not going to mention the points that have already taken place in an excellent discussion here so as not to be unnecessaryly extending time. I'd just like to make up the subject of the definition of a socially dangerous disease, since for the most burdensome control measures allowed by the law, a disease must be considered a socially dangerous disease and is defined in Article 4. But I'd be interested if it were. A welfare committee would like to consider only that there is actually a limited medical assessment that appears to be behind a decision to determine whether a disease is socially dangerous, such as how much mortality is associated with it or with each infectious factor. It is also possible to wonder when the disease will have the consequences of important functions, infrastructure, or health - care functions. In fact, there is a difference between whether the above functions are affected by the disease itself, that the disease personally has severe consequences, and that people become seriously ill that they cannot perform their jobs, or whether the disorder has come about by means of the government's own resources, etc. I thought it was right. The welfare committee examined this. I'm not going to write about the SEC, which has been dealt well with, but will agree with a number of views there, perhaps especially by referring also to economic and social interests, since it is all part of our fine community. One technical point that I would like to mention only about 24. Gr., trial of the courts. It shows that a judge himself should see to it that a matter is well informed before making a decision and that he himself should obtain evidence that he feels is needed. The bill also says that there is a law on personal treatment and, depending on the cases of criminal law in matters relating to disease laws, unless the law prescribed otherwise, stated in Article 24. To the most extent, the harmony of Article 15. current track. I'm sorry, it was very technical. However, it can be wondered whether it is unnatural for a judge to investigate the matter and then pronounce his own decision, in fact, this Inquisition war that has been practiced here since its appointment for something, namely. In 1995. I'd just as soon as possible. The welfare committee would consider whether a court order would be comparable to personal and criminal law, that the parish servant or a prosecuting force of evidence, but the judge may request that he obtain certain data on an incident if necessary to inform the case. However, this separation would be as normal as it is in personal and criminal laws and should be a clear example for us. Another technical factor is stated in Article 24. that those who are able to relate to the defense provide the necessary information is required to give it to judges. It may be possible to understand the procedure as such. Marriage and family members are obliged to testify against it. In both civil and criminal law, witnesses are not obliged to testify by witnesses related to the defendant, to the party. It would be strange for me to have a relative duty to assist with an investigation into a case that turns toward a destabilization, especially, as I mentioned earlier, because we have a different way of thinking about our personal and criminal rights and therefore the law should be spoken in this manner and should be fully consistent with the way we generally think about our rights here. At the bottom of the blue: To the 39th gr. The patient's payment is recommended under the law where it is found to be in accordance with health insurance laws, i.e. the cost of the law's action is generally paid, as is other medical and medical costs. In view of the high levels of health care recommended by the law as a burden and pressured by governments, I would like to consider whether the cost of projects under the law is reasonable if a principle of government funds is to be paid. Madam President. I've been careful with the main points I've learned about reading the bill. I would like to say again what I feel is beneficial. There are many steps in the right direction, and although everyone hopes that similar situations will not conflict with us, that is, in March 2020, we will be a little better at the bottom. I agree fully with those who have mentioned that in the flame now, when the dust has just sat down and we have a little more breath, have left fear, even anger, is a measure of protection to discuss important things, because I think this is a very important bill. Although we've done well and I'm very proud of the governments and anyone who came to it and how they kept an eye on an Icelandic nation at strange times, there must be some criticism, and there must be some questions to ask. I know that now I sound like a bunch of people's ears, but I don't really know how to say this any different. To me, things are extremely important. In general, I've tried to develop it, I'm not talking about in the position I'm here today, in the job I'm doing, thinking about all the rules from if evil men were in power. I'm going to ask all concerned not to take this to heart, for this is by no means directly related to them, on the contrary. But I've tried to look at all the rules, any power that rules to anyone or an institution, or what it is, based on that if it wasn't good people who held that rules. And from that princely finger, I suggest. The welfare committee puts on glasses to see if we can take a few steps closer to making the democratic election the responsibility that it can carry on as much measures as it is currently making a frame. I would like to thank you for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u82	Madam President. Yes, I've only been looking at it, and there's one thing I'd like to talk about in connection with this bill that is a big matter to my heart. I'd like to quote the bill, with the permission of the President, who's talking about an assessment of the effect: A report on the Department of Justice, day and day. On January 27, 2022, the number of police charges on sexual abuse increased by 24% from 2020 to 2021 and the fact that domestic violence by a partner or by former mates in the past two years has never been more by police file, or by 750 in both years. This does not refer to how many homes children are exposed to violence. I think it is a fine opportunity to pause and prophesy about this fact. During those years, the situation was disastrous, and the resources were not great for individuals who experienced violence in the hands of a marriage mate, children by parents, or parents by children, no matter what the domestic violence was. It is important to stop and think, " What are we going to do with these numbers? ' This situation may come back, and I miss seeing some action related to this. We need to keep in mind how we will react if this situation comes up again in regard to domestic violence, sexual abuse. This is an excellent opportunity to spit on the palms of these matters because it is clear that there are not enough resources for people who are abused at home, for children who suffer violence. They just don't exist, that's all. How do I know? Yes, when I'm not here as a deputy senator, I work as a psychiatrist at Children's Protection. I do interviews with children and parents and families who experience violence, and I think it is sobering to think that there is no spade in my hands and to do something radical about these matters when we are confronted with the fact that this is happening. I think it's important to talk about this because of my expertise and also because I was with these people in the storm. I hope to the highest. A health minister uses the opportunity to rethink how we will eliminate domestic violence, violence against children, violence in Iceland, what we will do. There is no guarantee that this will not happen again, after two years, after ten years, after 100 years. And what are we going to do? Besides that today there are not enough resources either. It's just that fact. Yes, when it comes to this highly important group of subjects, much of which is neglected, a person must spit at his hands. They're trying to do a little here and a little bit here, but it's just not enough, it's just not done enough. There's more to do. It is important that we discuss how we will react if there was a possible increase in domestic violence. Of course, the goal of being to eliminate domestic violence is to do it systematically and to have some kind of plan on it, but at least, in the light of these huge numbers that we saw when Covid raged at the most - apart from the fact that people were often at home and couldn't find anything. It was all shut down. Schools were closed, workplaces closed. I think it is important that there is more talk about violence, more detailed and more specific plans for dealing with domestic violence, child abuse, domestic violence. How sad it would be if those figures and what happened in Covid did not push us toward the real challenges we face! There are extraordinary numbers of good people and who are willing to contribute to this problem, but these are just not foregrounds. That's why I think it's important to think about this, that there's some kind of reaction and talk about how to react if this happens again - except that there is much more to be done today, even though the figures of domestic violence may be lower this year or the next year. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A health minister and others to think only about these matters and to wonder what you can do better. We don't have to wait until something like that happens again, but it's always going on, even though it's not as large as it was there. According to the Children's Protection statistics, there was a significant increase in domestic violence during this time. We see it, we know it. These are facts. What are we going to do? How will we react? It's not enough to have almost one resource, possibly two, present, just not enough. It takes so much more. We have early stages to support, and we need early intervention. We need to have far more contact with those in the early stages of violence in the family, in the presence of violence, and in the use of violence. There are all kinds of treatments, practical treatments, families, tolerance, for fermentants. For me, it's all about will. For me, it's about the ideal opportunity for the government to add much more powder to this suit because it would make everyone better. Of course, everyone wants to eliminate violence. But how are we doing, what are we going to do, and how will we succeed if we are not going to react?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u83	V.E.G. President. I propose here a proposal for an interpretation of the mental health policy until the year 2030. The proposal takes into account both the General's resolution of health policy to 2030 and public health policies to the year 2030. Thus, for the next year, mental health benefits are focused on baseline values that promote individualised health services on social foundations and support for health benefits throughout life. The main currents and trends in mental health worldwide show that increasing the emphasis on human health, prevention, and mental health is a common interest in the nations. Despite significant improvement in mental - health matters in recent years, there is evidence that we Icelanders face further challenges and obstacles that must be removed to make a success of future progress. A summary of the results of a mental - health conference held here 2020, as well as prior cross-cutting analyses and case reports, shows that they lack a more complete and consistent approach to mental health, ranging from psychiatric development, prevention and early intervention for mental health care at all levels and between the quality of the public service and the justice system. The service between health care ladders is to some extent fragile and incompatible with social services, school, or other public services, and the lack of a multidisciplinary approach to mental health at all levels. It is very important that we look at things in such a way that we can resolve these fundamental issues and find solutions to these challenges. Thus, the formation of a psychiatric rationalization proposal until 2030 takes into account what I have said here and is presented in the light of four core factors and emphasis that will be reflected in the actions that will follow this proposal if it is adopted by the Council. Thus, it could be said that we are setting up a course and goal, trying to beat in this failure, and making demands for this cross-cutting approach and overlaping between systems, so that the service will not be as fragile. We've taken some steps, and that's how the direction is made. We can then continue with the latter part of the policy strategy, followed by induction and follow-up. The recent report has been published by the National Review Centre, and it clearly shows that we need in this latter part of policy and cycle, when we take responsibility for certain aspects of the programme, to follow them much more closely and measure what the measures will be. In this council resolution, policy development is being developed and viewed and the future, and hopefully we here at the Council can agree on this policy so that we can follow through with a plan of action. Here are four core elements and emphasises that a plan of action may then reflect. These focus on the future mental health needs to be equal and paid access to a more simple, efficient, and user - oriented mental - health service based on the best possible benefit - tested treatment and rehabilitation of each individual, quality criteria, and innovation, and provided by qualified personnel. I'm going to take a ride about, a respectable president, to trace the main point of the proposal. The first focus factor I'm going to mention of these four points to mental activity, prevention and the importance of overall health care measures aimed at basic aspects of well - being and the effects of mental health. Mental health is important for the rest of your life. When people have good mental health, they feel that they are better and better equipped to cope with life. Thus, we will be better able to cope with life in a wholesome way and enjoy ourselves in the field ministry. We make better use of our skills, and we're more active in society, and all of this is hanging. Mental - health efforts are focused on supporting people to develop and nurture their mental health, which, of course, we need to keep in mind all our life. It is important that people get the best when they are young. Of course, we need to look at research, and there are positive relationships with others and good parenting that are among the most important factors that affect our entire life and our mental health, of course, as well as biological, psychological, and social aspects that affect our mental health. These are, a dignified president, part of the everyday life of people such as family conditions. This was illustrated in a fine speech by reason of reason. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir, í umræða um annar mál, sem vissulega áhrif allur samfélagslegur þáttur, þ.e. the preemptive sóttvarnaráðstöfun og hvernig ég fara gegnum the heimsfaraldur Covid-19. Childhood conditions, school environments, education, employment and social and economic conditions, these factors are largely outside the medical system, but it is important to consider individuals in and on their environments. It is very well expressed in a recent report by a state accountant that overlaps within the welfare system. It is very important that we deal with, that we look to the person in our environment and on his or her terms. There is a chance to teach children to nurture their mental well - being systematically through school as the scene of mental - regulating, prevention, and early planning. There is an important basis for people's success, and I think we, more dignified president, need to consider all of this in our environment, not just in our school environment, but everywhere we go. Such knowledge and experience are very important if we are to understand our own feelings and actions, identify ourselves with others, and establish a satisfying relationship with others, find a way to reach goals, and make responsible decisions in life. This skill can be taught, and it is also important to offer advice when problems arise, thus preventing the problem from becoming worse. It is this early intervention, so often, that we open up both instruction and teaching, and then give support when necessary - and early. In 2020, the government adopted a mental - age, prevention, and support program for children and young people in school in Iceland. These measures take place across the school and the Children's Department, the Ministry of Health, and the local community. A control group is about to work and has set priorities for the most urgent measures in the years to come. They need to introduce the core aspects of this programme of action to play, elementary and higher schools, such as psychotherapy as a primary study subject, step-change support in the basic schools of the country, and cooperation there, in the first phase of health care. At that time, a series of measures to reduce the number of suicides in Iceland in 2018 has been implemented and followed by measures based on the surgeon's office. That assignment is well controlled, but many measures remain unsupervised. It is emphasised on completing the procedure prior to 2030. This will give special attention to the fact that all the people of the country have access to practical, practical, and easy - to - read information about mental - health practices, prevention and mental - health, which enables them to maintain a healthy lifestyle and to improve and maintain mental health and health. Thus, all people will have the opportunity to strengthen and maintain their own mental health through access to information in a secure and synthetic digital environment, such as in a health environment. It will be sought to enhance the health of people and to enable them to make informed decisions about personal health and how to take care of them best. This is where I've reviewed this first event. It is very extensive, and it is at the same time very important. We are here describing a vision and a course, where we want to go, and hopefully we have a choice to follow through with a more powerful plan of action. Another factor in the mental - health service policy involves the integration of a complete mental - health service into an integrated and based on the best benefit - working therapy and rehabilitation and the benefit of the mental - health services provided by qualified personnel at appropriate services in successful cooperation with other services. Lack of integrated and complete mental health care and lack of staff at all levels of health care is a major challenge in mental health care as well as in other health care services. We've talked about it a lot, including. Here in this conference hall, and most reports we go through present this challenge. It is estimated that the fifth person in Iceland could face a mental - health problem at some point in his life and must consult a professional for help in this regard. It is important that the country has access to effective treatment and rehabilitation at all levels of mental health care. To meet the requirements for quality, safety, and advancement in the ministry, we need to pay close attention to the human resources that motivate the system. For example, a man must be in accordance with the scope and nature of his ministry so that mental - health services can be ensured within an acceptable waiting period. Therefore, adequate cross-cutting needs to be performed in a mental - health service that is consistent with the need for each service stage in relation to subjectes, abilities, guidance, and adequacy. Special attention should be given to the increasing number of professions in which recruitment is limited. In the medical profession, I want to say here, a respected president, speaking of the challenges in design, that this interaction between professions is also important when we have to look at the ministry and integrate in a service that we need to look after. Thus it is emphasized that individuals with personal experience as users of mental health care and provide counselling about the ministry, thus sharing their knowledge with the aim of improving the quality of the ministry. This is indicated later, in other emphasis factors, but this is a focus of coordination and cooperation in the relations of health, social, and child - care professionals. In the long run, coordination between services has been incomplete and there has been a lack of effective solutions to the needs of users and the appropriate level of services provided in advance. For example, there is no geographic relationship between health laws, communities, and police laws. Here I just see that my time is running out, and I'm just halfway there with a story, top dog. President. But I can get something into the conversation here in the late stages. The conjugal proposal that comes with it is quite good for these factors. I'm going to get this over with by suggesting after 1st. if the synopsis should be made, and the case referred to why. The welfare committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u84	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Health secretary for the history of mental health policy until 2030. I'd like to use this opportunity to bring him in after work in a plan of action. On the Internet, I can see that there's been an appointment to work on a policy action plan, if it is approved, until 2030. I don't make comments with it, but I wonder--because we've been and we're in on it. Government and monitoring committee report National Reexamination, at the highest level. A minister referred to the state of mental - health services in this country, and that report illustrates the unacceptable conditions I consider to be, agreeing with a public accountant, in mental - health service. Unfortunately, that's not new, unfortunately, it's not something that happened yesterday or last year or in Covid. A much older story is based on our abundance of mental - health services. It does not receive the proportion of donations to be given to a healthcare professional according to the patient's weight, the number of patients, etc. So I ask if this policy is being followed, not only by an action plan, but by a detailed cost plan, and how the government intends to finance the measures absolutely necessary to improve mental health care, as well as the integration and approach under the direction of the policy. I think she's professional and right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u85	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Þórunn It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir of grizzzly. That gives me a chance to deal with this. You see, this is very important. I had a good status meeting with a group of consultations, which are working on a plan of action in line with these policies. Of course, we must take into consideration what is stated in the report by a state accountant, whom I consider to be very good. This is the best I've seen so far, where there's a standard and tried to draw out where the money is in our carts. There's two things we have in the extension work, and we've had a very powerful audience, and I'm willing to say that we've been on that front team. We've had nuclear groups and snout groups, and we've had very broad consultations with people who know and use them too. What is available is to take into account the indications presented in the report - I know that the group has already started working on it - taking into account the factors involved in the analysis and funding and overlap, and all that is being presented, and trying to trace it. At the same time, the Parliament has told her about this policy and the welfare committee dealt with it, possibly initiating its policy, saying: "Let's do something slightly different, let's sharpen the sample there, set in additional goals, etc. That is two ahead as the task plan team looks toward from this point today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u86	Madam President. It is good to know that the newly appointed spoke group has taken part in the work and will take into account the recommendations made in the State Review Report. That's good. Of course, I'm aware that it's also being combined by the successful actions. I'm just gonna get to call them that. We have already come to the country where both politicians and, of course, professional people understand the need to work in a professional way, in a cross - color fashion, because it gives people the best mental health care, and it is absolutely necessary to care for them in this way. But I would like to reiterate my question to the highest level. A minister who was here before, not so long ago, president of the budget board and who knows very well the financial matters and that we do not only for financial purposes but also a longer term financial plan. I can quickly see that the increase in medical spending is different from the one resulting from aging and/or the growth of the nation. That's why I want to know if it's the highest. Health Ministers do not intend to use all their resources within the government to finance the health system, and especially the things discussed here, the mental health system that has been both neglected and underdeveloped. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. If the highest. A minister needs support on that matter. He can be found by members of the United States Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u87	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator overruled support, not help. I want to follow those words and that encouragement, and I feel like a fine opportunity. We have missed way too long in this particular group of subjects and in this health - care program to respond and we have not put our arms around it. But I feel that things have been good in the past. You're right, you're right. A senator comes out here. Besides what has been listed in the mental health care teams and which has been initiated by the aid and services of psychologists in health care as a first-degree service - and then we've put some Covid funds into the system to support the mental health care team - it's obvious that we need to reevaluate every part of the operation program to achieve the goals we're setting up in this course. I'll bet that's where we have to watch the timeline in it. I suppose we can push some of these actions into their heads and at once and others take longer. All we have to do is get a serious cost assessment so that each operation will be costed. From then on, we need to focus on the priorities of money management. But I think it's a song and an opportunity now to do even better in this important case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u88	President. Thank you very much. A health minister for this council-sense proposal. Maybe I'd like to mention the psychiatry first, i.e. talking about getting psychotherapy into the school's main textbook. I think that's a lot of good news. Many professions, psychologists, and others have talked about some form of mental - health status, regardless of how much it would be implemented. There is a possibility that mental behavioural treatment is being taught or other useful methods that are important and effective and can be taught to children at an elementary school. There is a need for careful action, and it needs to be done well. I know that in some places the schools are doing very good things, and most people are trying best to have some form of mental or educational activity. First, I wanted to ask, "I have the highest. " Health Ministers the power to place mental activity in a school record? Does it fall under him? Second, who should teach this mental - health program and how to do so? A minister of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir very good questions. Hv. A senator introduces the first focus of these policies. We can talk about a road trip when we are setting out with direction and vision. I know why. A senator, with his expertise, agrees with me on the importance of prowess and psychiatrists, the emphasis on mental activity and early intervention and support of the children and teenagers, and the benefits of it into the future when we nurture mental status in all age levels. I'm sure of that, and I don't have to go over it. But, hey. A senator asks if it is in the power of a health minister to include this in a school syllabus. We can have this as a health - care policy and take a view of it. It is true, however, that the main course is under the scope of the language field. Children's and Education Ministers. But there we also come to see that we need to do these things in the administrative capacity, making sure that individuals who receive the ministry will not be affected if we are putting some walls within the systems. This is very clear in the state accountant's report, and there we can set the goal and then we can get a child - education minister, who has just set up this success project for children, to consider these aspects of the syllabus so that the policy will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u90	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The health minister for the answer. It's a very ambitious goal, and I'm happy for it. Therefore I will make sure that we may fight for this, that it shall be fought for this in all battles. I'd also like to talk about what is said in the council concluded by the President's permission: The integrated and collective mental health care card and the lack of staff at all levels of health care is fundamental to mental - health care. This is a problem, and we know there are many professions that go elsewhere. We know that coldness and other labour market problems, e.g. Health care and mental - health care as well as health care are a major challenge to our health and social systems. What I'd like to come to is, why keep the top. Health Ministers that this great lack of mental health care is in the hands of health professionals?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I don't have any answers about the last question, but all of this hangs together, for the reason that they lack people for work. I don't have any numbers. We set up the National Council on design and education in health care and in the analysis I have received in a number of reports, it is stated that in all health - care professions there is a lack of professionals. We have seen this manifest in the ministry that we have been starting, we are always competing for this limited human race. As an example, when mental - health workers were introduced, they were introduced by professionals from the Land Hospital, so they are attracted to a limited resource. In fact, it is within all the trades of health care, and it is a report by the National Reviewer that this is a real challenge. For the first part of this question about this cross -cut vision, it is only very important, and therefore we set out this vision, to ensure that clients receive such effective mental - health care, which is based on knowledge and clinical guidelines, so that we use all professions. In this area like so many people, we are moving more toward a teamwork and a variety of knowledge that is so important to people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for recommending a proposal for interpretation of mental health policies until 2030. In particular, I decided to introduce two issues related to this council resolution, which may have been very similar in nature to two o'clock. Senators came in here in their own defenses. Other than that, I expect to deepen my understanding of this proposal through work on the welfare committee and then process the reports that will be received there. First, I would like to agree only with the assessments and reports that have been received to the council during the winter and to the government, and may even be coming in the coming days, in which there is a special service to children, i.e. how this assessment interacts with the policy and the action programme to follow. Well, in some way it just came out here, but I think it's one of the things a welfare committee needs to think about and see how it's gonna play together. Similarly, I feel somewhat vague of the text here, without having read it entirely from word to word, how to carry out the plan of action. I used to sit on an environment and transport committee, where it is very clear how policy interaction is developed. It seems that there are a lot more vague in many health - related areas, so I find it interesting to discuss it on the committee, how this interaction is, who directs the work, and what role the meeting team plays with the main stakeholders. This was another thing that I wanted to reflect on, hoping that it would improve in the discussion of the committee. On the other hand, I wanted to include the study that really matters. As the situation is, and it has actually been for many years, there is a considerable time for what is called vitality or timing in a program of education that can result in mental depression. This is true from high school to high school, as it were, on the basis of what is said here: ◯S such knowledge and experience are important to understand their own feelings and actions, to put themselves in the place of others, to develop a good relationship with others, to find your own goals, and to make responsible decisions in life. This involves more and less work at oversight teachers and students who teach the game of life in school, but I agree that it is important to explain more clearly how this is being done and to increase the availability of teachers to study and tools to share this knowledge, even though much has happened over the past 20 to 25 years. This has actually been building up for years, and some of it has been included in a curriculum, but it can be replaced. But I also want to introduce a more specific teaching to those who are diagnosed with a mental problem. Today, many are diagnosed with a mental problem at high school or at the age of which most people are in college. Then we are talking about disorders such as bipolar disorder and other mental disorders. As far as I know, in some parts of the world around us it is that when people are diagnosed with such a disorder in their teens, they are offered courses, and even partners, to figure out what to expect, what is involved in such analysis, and what tools are available to help them cope with the problem. I think there is much work to do by helping people learn to live by themselves. It is the greatest challenge that all of us have in life to cope with the challenges of self - injury. I think this is also a key to power, that each one learns which tools are appropriate for the person to meet the challenges he faces during his life. These were two things I especially wanted to come on, but there may be other things I want to mention related to this chapter as well, that mental - health, prevention, and early measures will become the basis for mental health to be associated with physical health. In adulthood, it may be especially important that mental health decline often while physical function declines, along with a variety of degenerative diseases, or diseases that otherwise affect physical function. So I think it's a factor that, when we look at the outside of the system, is important to us that we look at the interaction between physical and mental health. That's all I had in mind to come on right now, but there's a lot of things in there that I know I'm gonna put myself in better. I hope it will work for a welfare committee to expand the discussion on this important proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for the contributions of this proposal and for good history about it. In many ways, the emphasis on this course is in order, and I also find appreciation for the extent of it. A minister is honest about the situation. In effect, it is a journey that began during the last terms, namely, to cover this category as a special case of health care and to set specific policies. This is the second time they're setting a special health policy here. In substance, I find the priorities that are the basis for this course to be good in that it is accepted that mental - health and mental - health services are more than merely to react and perform services when problems are up and people are grown. It is just as much and even more about child support, upbringing, and perhaps larger social factors. It's a good thing that this is taken up, although I may miss that the operation is not just a more extensive approach. It is very positive to increase mental - health education in school, but in line with the way the highlights are described, it would not be wrong to consider, too, the support of parents in everything we have to do with children, and the natural balance and equation. Hard economic conditions can have a very serious effect on mental health. It's like the highest. The minister of child - care ministers who have the title, as if he did half in the last term, have merely shaped the priorities of this decision, to consider the early prevention of children and their equipment, and to acknowledge that this has a major impact on people's lives, that it is in fact the most beneficial way to consider getting psychiatric rather than to react in the future. This may be one reason why cost has increased, e.g. when it comes to antipsychotics, and we also see an increase in the number of people who are in disability due to mental illness. You can see that coming in early can greatly reduce the number of people who are facing heavy challenges. Then it's in the men's room. Hv. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir came into it only and asked for the possible reasons. I think there's been a lot of work to do, as shown in a report, that one aspect must be the funding of the system. The service level is normally in line with the funding provided, should be carefully reviewed, and should see that these measures need to be followed by financial support. Another part regarding design may possibly turn to the system itself and opportunities available there. While financing is still involved, it is also consistent with policy. V.E.G. A health minister only admitted that the mental - health workers - I know them because I worked with one of them for over two years, so I can give them a good witness. This is just one example of something very positive, but a cross-cutting approach is being introduced and the ministry is being brought into the community. V.E.G. A health minister noted that professional workers had been looking from the Land Hospital, and the Landliness has complained about losing people. I think it's a lack of thought, that it's a limited resource that there's a loss of increasing the ministry. We need to realize, however, that people are enjoying a ministry there, only in another place. I'm going to let myself be so optimistic about believing that to increase the opportunity for people to work, whether in an institution or in a team or somewhere else, people are motivated to educate themselves in the studies that give people professional privileges in this field. I'd like to speak a little against this lack of thought, that increasing the supply is being done on a limited resource rather than the offer will lead to a slight increase in the number of resources. It cannot be avoided only to introduce a case that has been named here in the conference hall and has been removed from here, which is the subsidies of the Psychological Service. It's only on the inside, and in fact, there are comments that are made in a word - of - word reply. It suggests that it is the responsibility of health insurance to negotiate the process. It makes me feel like I'm just ignoring the fact that when you don't have money, it's harder to negotiate. I am aware that the budget needs to be extended ahead or at least at the same time, that the precise scope of this part of the service should be determined and then funded accordingly. Other than that, I wish the commission a success to review the matter and, of course, those who come to implement a policy. Once again, I encourage you to pay attention to financing. I hope that the analysis that is available and will be carried out will shed good light on the exact need for service, on whether financial resources are there, and where the funds are most useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u94	President. I'd like to start by talking only about a course that was taken, entitled A Future View of Mental Health until 2030. The course was taken in a great deal of consultation with the professionals and the Senate resolution proposal as high as the highest level. A health minister is making progress. There are, however, various things and measures that I miss the policy that are, from what I think, in this proposal for Congress. There are some things, because it was a very ambitious course, but that's all. I'd like to start by referring to an action referred to. Prior to the consultation course, the president's permission was spoken of as saying: '[] to secure the ideal health care providers to ensure that there will be a sharing in services and that there will be no adversities in the professions that'll cause the service to fail. There is also another person I think it is important for me to appear in this vision of mental health until the year 2030, involved in a consultation puzzle. It says here, by permission of the President: ◯ Hannah and build for 2030 new facilities for mental - health services, which correspond to the timelines for the management and management equipment of individuals, housing where workers can perform all aspects of the service better than possible today with regard to diagnosis, treatment, safety and infection, and where individual patients have individual rooms and access to an outdoor area. To me, this sounds a very important, very important operation, which is the basis for the function or function of the National Hospital mental wards. You see, there is a great demand for better care for people who have to go to the mental - health departments of the hospital. There's a lot of call for change. It's all you need to do, whether there are divisions in a hospital or a KIpplas hospital or wherever it is, that the equipment is just not okay. He's down below all the caves. How should people feel and recover when the environment is like it at the hospital right now? No wonder people don't like to lie in. The environment is just so it's amazing - it doesn't offer you welcome, it doesn't seem like nothing's been done there for me that I don't know how many years. Of course, the staff is doing their best in the impossible - with no funding or at least not enough. Mold, it's something you hear all the time. It is very important that this very point, an environment for people who are dealing with mental disorders, is that they are feeling good. The groundwork for people to get a service is, as was said here, that people, for example, have. easy access to outdoors. I think any man who's been into the mental wards of Land Hospital would agree with me that this environment is not okay. It's very important, I think, that it's fixed as soon as possible. There is also another action that I suddenly don't see to be mentioned here, but it could be that there's a point hidden here somewhere, a big help and instruction for parents. This is very important. Parents are often the best caregivers, but parents often do not have the knowledge. Therefore, it is very important that we do not forget this operation. It is also said to initiate the subsidiary of psychological services. It is here on this vision. It would be very good if it had just begun to finance and subsidize psychological services. One is to increase the number of job opportunities for young people and people with mental challenges. This is not what I see in this proposal for Congress. This is very important and must not be forgotten. This is part of putting our young people into the workforce with support. It was only today that I spoke to people who have experienced emotional challenges and who are most anxious to reach the workforce, but the opportunities are not there. So here we go again: A new home for mental hospitals and a review of ideologies and the content of treatment. ◯ Here again it is spoken of, and it is being rephrased and the importance of changing matters. It is fundamental that the third degree of psychiatric services rendered in the Hospital work. Since the time is up, I'd also like to talk about one point in this policy, which is to rule out forced and forced treatment. It's not on the bill. How important it is that this vision of mental health is discussed in this future until 2030 C.E.!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u95	V.E.G. President. We're here to assign a health minister to follow a mental health policy until 2030. The policy provides suggestions and emphasis on improving the availability and quality of health care in the country. This policy is very important, especially since a recent report brought to Kingdom Accounting, which considered the status of mental health care in the country. Hv. This report was introduced by the management board and by a number of points. For example, it stated that there was a degree of discrimination due to habitats, economics, and a type of mental disorder in the system. It was also noted that certain groups were in gray areas and were not given proper service. A regional review provided seven suggestions for improvement, including to improve the collection of information, analyses and extramarital services, ensures continuous mental health care, eliminates grey areas in mental health care, improves access to mental health care, attention to the management and specialisation of staff, ensures the existence of mental health and the need for action programmes and their follow-up. These suggestions go along very well with the synonym that we are dealing with here. The Ministry has received these suggestions from the report. We have a lot of work to do to increase and improve mental - health activities in our country, and everyone sees it. I'm glad the council feels like it's here. We need to work hard at it, and it is of vital importance to our nation's mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u96	President. There are a few other points I'd like to promote that I don't see in this proposal to be held accountable. ▪ Get a level of mental health on your feet. This is one of the measures mentioned in the future vision of mental health issues until 2030. I can't see it here. Here, though, it speaks of quality advice, which is only good and blessed, but it is true that a measure of ambition has been developed in this vision of the future mental health problems up to the year 2030. The final statement speaks of the importance of implementing this vision, calling it the need to coordinate the efforts of all stakeholders. It says that each of the seven core measures will require specific targets and indicators. So these were seven basics, like I remember, 42 steps. However, when this mental - health vision was completed in the year 2030, no research was referred to. It is strange that with the use of facts and practical techniques, there is no basis for wanting to do things in one way or another. A more recent study might be taken into account and referred to as a way that the reader could possibly go to a source and read about studies related to what is suggested. Of course, some of these are very obvious, such as. A place for mental health care, that's obvious. Another is not so obvious, and it is important to refer to studies that show that this is the best way to do things that we are going to do. Also, in this context, I would like to mention that what is missing in the vision of mental health for the year 2030 is that more measurable or objective goals are not taken into account, money is not taken into account, how much money is needed in order to fulfill this vision. However, this proposal for Congress does not include many of the steps mentioned in the future, and I miss it. I hope this is only the first step, and in the next step you will have ambitious goals, such as subsidies of psychological services and facilities where people might feel better, in which research is cited to explain that this is the best way to do things. Also bare, I think, the highest. A health minister to discuss funding. That's what we don't have, that's what we need, that's what it takes to handle this group as he deserves it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u97	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir for two fancy talks and a good entry into the discussion. Hv. A senator introduced a number of good tips that have been part of an older strategy, and that is correct. I just want to reiterate that these additional policy measures are on past policies, i.e. the future vision and goals, and the mental health conference that was very strong 2020 - we're just looking at the early part of the policy, and then we're going to follow action. And many of the indications as a dog. A senator went over - I just wanted to explain and thank you. A senator for accessing these factors, including the equipment and the facilities and how we conduct the measuring techniques and science and research on practical methods. It will be all part of the measures we will see in the action programme that will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u98	President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of health for their counter-reguage. Yes, I do not doubt that the willingness to do good is behind what is at its height. We're being told here by the health minister. All I'm concerned about is how badly it has been done to carry out a plan of action. I am concerned because important things that I think are evident in the future are not in this proposal for Congress. That's why I'm worried that important things are forgotten and not placed in foregrounds. I find it important to draw out what has not been said here but was part of a result of very extensive consultation. I would like to maintain the ability to meet these results, and they will be taken into account in setting goals for better service than it is known that this was, unfortunately, not sufficiently done or followed properly during the last term, at least not 20163/42020, as shown in the state accountant's report. I'm concerned about this party, and I just want this to be done well and that money is guaranteed and everyone on the same page with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-17.u99	V.E.G. President. I just want to come here at the end and thank you for your discussion and a number of practical suggestions that will be helpful. a well-being committee and, without a doubt, the group of consultations that have started working on the planning of action programmes that will follow these policies. Right away. The welfare committee has put their arms around these indications from cover 1. There will be very good data on the group involved in the implementation of the programme. So I am very grateful for the many fine suggestions that have been presented here. You see, there is one thing -- as shown in the talks. Councilmen, and the last person in a speech chair, giddy. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir, also introduced it - to have a vision and a course, and another way we follow it and do it. One of the things we can take to heart from a government accountant's report is that when we follow this procedure, we have a responsibility for any action at home and in each field, we can process it and evaluate it. This will be the time for the measures that are very important and then for the cost assessment of each procedure. This is the feed into the work of the meeting group, which is starting to work on this policy and then taking into account the recent reports of a national accountant and the review of the vision and policy presented here. The vision and policy we are considering here is based on a previous course and action and a mental - health assembly, which was basically vast. Although I have not been able to participate, or have been able to do so, I have not only read through the reports but also heard from those who were there that there was a very positive introduction to all this work. I can't stress enough that we will bring an action plan to the council, which is based on this policy and vision. It's gonna be very interesting to watch how you're doing. The welfare committee is expected to process the policy and then return it to us to cooperate with the plan of action. I got ahead of myself well over focus factors one and two that lead to mental activity and prevention, and I've been very comfortable with that in speeches. Councilmen, this collective way and the integration of the service to focus factors one and two. But I need to introduce the importance of a user council. I have given much importance to this work, both in policy and in the strategy, to look into it and to engage in any form of dedicated service at all levels of mental - health care. I think it's important in most areas. In order for such opportunities to develop into this broad meeting area on the subject of mental health, it is suggested, on a third point, to set up a psychiatric committee in which governments, professionals, users, and members of the group care. This is a very important step we are taking here, and we have been talking about it for a long time, both from members of the community and from professionals in this sector. This field also has the responsibility to promote cooperation and integration in mental - health services and to develop ways to increase the involvement of users in the development and management of mental health care for the future. I think this is a very important step in this and important emphasis. Fourth, it is in this program, and I think that those of us who have participated in this discussion can agree, that in all areas of health care, innovation and science and development are important, as in all other services, to promote better mental - health services and perhaps especially to increase access. I want the end, chief. Mr President, thank you so much for very upbuilding discussions and helpful tips. I have no doubt they'll be useful. The welfare committee on this matter.
