ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various financial laws. The bill's on the roof. Seventy-six hundred and fifty-two. This involves the introduction of six types of Europe into a financial market. These include the three types of the European Parliament and the Council, which alter the so-called mother-making and three forwards of Commission regulations that change the European Commission's scope of Regulation. The key elements of the bill are: First of all, changes in the market laws for financial advancement are proposed, No. 115/2021. It involves the strictness of the high-level policies on position measures in terms of achieving only agrienvironmental consequences and the important raw products involved in business practices in the business sector and the OTC agreements that have the same economic impact. Today, the maximum trigger effect takes place in general. The objective of these peaks is to prevent marketing use and, on the other hand, to support normal prices and implementation conditions, including prevention of post-marketing postural conditions. It is important to note that the limit generally does not cover enterprises that take such positions to minimize business risks. Second, it is proposed that the laws on marketing fraud be changed, No. 60/2021, and the law on the description of the stocks offered in a general tenders or taken for business on a structured market, No. 14/2020. The changes reduce the number of shapes required for growth markets and, therefore, the cost of such registration at the same time as market integrity and investment protection. Among other things, it reduces the company's requirements as a list of economic growth markets for SMEs, such as the inherent list and advertisements. Third, a slight adjustment is suggested in terms of European financial monitoring systems, No. 24/2017, and fixing credit ratings companies, No. 50/2017, with regard to the information provided by the competent authorities - in this country, it is the National Focal Bank of Iceland - to the European stock market of the Agency and to the European Social Security Agency. Fourth and final, adjustments are made in the regulations for taking over, No. 108/2007. The changes are to eliminate some of the laws no longer applicable. In assessing the impact of this bill, changes in peak positions are not expected to have a major impact, since trades with raw derivatives are not major in this country. But there is hope that with the approved bill, there will be registration of financial initiatives for a so-called growth market for SMEs less simple and cost-blowning. This will hopefully lead to increased market business and better selling of the financial contributions produced by SMEs. It is noteworthy that last September Nazidaq was announced that the North market in this country had received such a registration, i.e. as a growth market for SMEs. No effect is anticipated because of the bill on government funds. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u2	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize the law of financial companies and other laws. This is a major bill, as can be seen from this book that I'm holding here, which contains the bill, which is primarily designed to complete the 2013/36/EU Directive on access to loan organisations and lend-authority monitoring and stock costs and regulations (EU) No. 575/2013 on the precautionary requirements of credit institutions and stock companies. Together, the vertebral system in European Community legislation constitutes the precautionary requirements for banks and other loan institutions. Icelandic legislation has been imposed on these types in steps since 2015 and has the most impact on Iceland when introduced. However, there is a wide variety of memory mechanisms that are now being completed with the approved bill. I'm here to explain to you the major changes in materials proposed in the bill. The F.O. is getting some new surveillance clearances. Among them is the authority to cancel a financial license that severely or repeatedly violates financial regulations and to demand sale of an active holding part in the lender's holdings, so that it is likely to harm the health and trust of the Agency. Furthermore, to replace an executive or an executive in a financial enterprise, he does not meet appropriate conditions and to commit administrative fines to the person who is involved in having a work permit on the basis of false information or other unusual ways. Government fines laid on individuals will be able to study up to 800 million. K. instead of 65 million. K. At that time, the F.A. will be able to temporarily remove a shareholder's voting rights in a financial company, breaking him off and temporarily forbidding a person who breaks down to work in a financial company. The Commission's cooperation and information exchange with authorities in other Member States on the EEA. Among other things, we will discuss the issues and how to deal with cross-border violations in the Member States which are being conducted in more than one Member State. The source of financial institutions is recommended, i.e. Enterprises, which have the main business of building property or performing a certain financial service, but are not financial companies, to work across the border of the European Economic Area. This will allow loan institutions to be established in a state outside the EU economy to prohibit offering a national service without forming a branch office here. The requirement for the management of financial companies is more detailed, including the systematic obligation of key financial companies to operate with the Committee to Re-Elect and the Committee to Re-Elect. The directive's Preservation regulations, which have largely been recorded in Iceland's Central Bank, are recorded in the financial law. It is suggested that there will continue to be a somewhat more strict limit on the budget than on the terms of the directive, particularly by refusing to provide management and staff working on risk management, internal review or regularity of bonuses, and by maximising prices at 25% of fixed markets. Budget companies are ordered to keep records of all their trades and documented policies, systems and processes and to publish information about their activities in individual countries where they have a work station. There are some changes in the rules of self-imbursement. It is reported that the decision of the proportion of fluctuaters to take into account the risk of interest. In general, for a systematicly important national financial enterprise, there is an increase from 2% of the national risk base to 3%. It is then recommended that new financial support be made on a global scale, but it does not apply to any companies that are currently active in Iceland. Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 575/2013 will be registered, but its main ingredient has so far been implemented by the Minister's Regulation. Finally, it is suggested that the implementation of European labour laws on business funds and the management of specialized funds will be completed. The bill also suggests a number of biological changes not directly based on European types. Possessions will not be authorized, but by financial law, companies are now requiring strict licenses as loan agencies to have rented real estate or funds for main jobs, although they have not been fully followed up. The definition of money thefts and the registration of real owners of the term real owner will be used instead of providing separate definitions in the financial law. In terms of the recent legalization of Europe, which is being handled in a thorough manner by the same topic, the Court of Auditors is removed from its regulations on the level of accountants for financial markets. Then, the Building Office is made under obligation to maintain the self-finishment, in accordance with the request of the Ministry of Re-Electment, which deals with the Agency's issues. The bill also suggests some changes that are intended to explain or simplify the law or correct technical problems. The bill is extensive, but its effect is considered to be less than the scope. In this way, the principles of Europe's building projects, such as their own money and money, are the most impact in Iceland at the time of the country's recording, although less important things are going on. Overall, though, the bill is approved as a way of trusting financial stability and the monitoring of the FEC. The legislation can also increase the administrative burden of enterprises in a financial market, but it pays for Icelandic financial companies with other countries to agree that the rules here are consistent with those in other countries in the European Economic Areas. With the approval of the bill, Iceland will satisfy its national rights commitment to implement the complete European creations, but Directive 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 575/2013 was set up in the European Economic Area at the start of 2020. By approval of the bill, Iceland's Navy is also given a legal license to introduce 15 of the directive and of the Regulation that have been adopted into the contract but have not been introduced to it the lack of legal authority has so far. EFTA has announced a case for Iceland for the EFTA Court because these types have not been introduced. It is vital, therefore, that the bill be established at this assembly. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u3	A respectable president. After a meeting with the president and members of the council members of the management board, there is still a stand at the council. Government officials do not agree with our sincere request to initiate the General Board of Research to go to the stitches for sale of a share in Iceland Bank. We've suggested it repeatedly because the General Commission has legalized broad sources to call for information, in order to provide protection to people who provide information despite having participated in illegal legalities, may be obliged to come to reports, etc. But no, the board of directors prefers to go as high as possible. A financial minister suggested yesterday and the highest. To the highest degree, the prime minister agreed. The minister of finance himself asks that the government's review of his work, his suggestions, and has a government accountant agree to this with the limited documents he has for research. This was the meeting conclusion. This is a tremendous disappointment, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]] It is disappointing that governments do not understand the seriousness of the matter. [[The president calls.]] I have to say, and I'm sorry that our partners in the left green are taking them to this expedition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u4	Mr. President. In other times, you have not experienced a process where one object runs another, and the events are somehow drawn up as a halllock. We are talking about sale of the Icelandic country's property in the bank and should not be investigated. Legally it is assumed that financial and economic secretary will decide whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a government contract for the sale of the property part. However, information on proposals or proposals was never submitted to the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, so that there is only a direct preconceived situation, either the law's legal course or the Bank Office, and, of course, it has to be investigated, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u5	President. The government screwed up the bank sale. That's clear. The administration authority should not be allowed to decide any member of the team who studies it or not. It's supposed to be clear. It should be up to the council to decide. We are asking that the General Research Committee study committee do research on this important matter in order to increase confidence in the process, to increase confidence in our banking system, and to follow, from the bank sale to which there is more to sell. However, the directors prefer to have us in the arms of the conference board for all day's sake rather than to ensure that it will start real regardless of the U.S.A. National Research Committee, we get to choose who is involved in this investigation. [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking, what are some of the executives so afraid of? Of what? What's going on? [[The president calls.]] What is it that cannot be investigated? It would have been so easy to agree to get into this right away. [[The president calls.]] Why does a government accountant have to come in between? Why is this investigation so difficult to reconcile? What have you got to hide?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u6	A respectable president. That's right. We were certainly coming from a meeting, with the council leaders, where we were discussing the discussion that has been conducted here. About her I'd like to say that I think it's obvious from the words that have been dropped here and like the news and what we've heard and read today, and all the wind goes forward quickly and definitely, that there is no trust in this matter. I think it's obvious. The sources we have, as well as the council and the individual ministers, are being transferred to the General Intelligence Agency, a National Reconnaissance. That was even. discussed at this meeting, and I may not be aware of the answer correctly, whether it would be possible to better connect the Council's Cabinet Committee, Administrative Commission and Observation Committee with this government accountant's work without affecting the way he operates with his own independent industry. I did not get the answer to the idea that we would use this opportunity and time, that a government accountant will get his job done, but at the same time trying to shape ideas about how a research report would look would lead to a national accountant or an evaluation as well as to the need to take that road. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And just so I'm adding, if you'll excuse me, I've told you here that I believe it's important to roll with all the stones in this case, so I repeat it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u7	A respectable president. We're clear. What a mistake it was to sell this blessed bank! We were totally against it. Why? That's exactly what I'm talking about. Especially the government isn't ready. The people did not want it, the majority of the people. They did what we feared most, not just messing up, but it's a mess. Personalization, private friend, best friends and bank short friends. That's what everyone was afraid of. That's the fact today. They do not want to face what has become the word, they want a government accountant. It doesn't make sense. We have to get a neutral party, the General Commission, to get the whole picture of this case. Otherwise, we'll never be happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u8	A respectable president. I'm just saying, what's the government afraid of? If everything is okay and the rules were followed, why not just erase the suspicion and investigate it so that people, all of us, have confidence in the study? First of all, I think it's really sad. It's fixed to me just for what happened after a crash. I was against this sale just because of this or even, let's say, for this. I'm not surprised what's happened here. The only thing that surprises me is that this is worse than even I was afraid to fear. I didn't expect it to be that bad. I did not assume that the ventaries would be welcomed, welcomed, and we would still be in the grass, or the government would once again be in the grass for the money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll tell you again, I'm ashamed of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u9	Mr. President. It seems to me that governments are in major cat laundry when they constantly refer to Government Accounting, knowing that they don't have the same authority, opportunity, and potential to explore it as an independent research committee would. To illustrate this, it is easy to look back a few years. A government check issued a health card at two bank sales, which proved to be very critical for research committees, not because a government accountant had done something wrong, but he may not have information and evidence and could not do things the same way. There was an excellent comparison. When Halldóra Mogensen spoke of the nail and the wall, she spoke about it. You have a screwdriver and you have a hammer. Are you going to start by using the screwdriver and find out it's not working and using the hammer? You just start picking up the hammer right away because you know it'll do you good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u10	Mr. President. This is a remarkable situation that has arrived at the General Assembly. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers are responsible for selling the share of the state in Iceland Bank. It turns out that the process is severely critical, and more and more is being expressed, which makes people suspicious. In fact, they are wondering if the law has been followed. V.E.G. Secretary of the economy says, "Yes, I'm willing to have it checked out, just if there's going to be a state accountant who does. That's what I've decided. V.E.G. A minister says, "I'm willing to have my work investigated if I get to choose who does it. " It's just one form of corruption. It is the General Assembly of the Icelanders that needs to appoint a Ministerial Committee with a wealth of authority to pass through this case. [[The president calls.]] We live in Iceland on Ministerhood, and there's so crystal clear in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to refer to a word or two. paritaprevir Orri, son of Páll Jóhannsson, who came here to confirm that the greater part does not want a thorough assessment of this matter. His case included. ... to bring the evaluation of a government accountant's opinion to the point that there is a reason to go further into the stitches, but I would like to ask: What if it doesn't, as did the study of the Kingdom Accounting of 2003 and 2006? Then I agree with others here who have said that this is not a disgrace to a public accountant. Rather, it is about the authority he has. We've come here one by one, and we've given very much evidence of why we feel the need for a research committee to be established. I wish for the more part to come up here and explain why not. Why not? That is when I want to emphasize that word. paritaprevir Orri, son of Páll Jóhannsson earlier, when he said that he was favoring rolling with each stone. [[The president calls.]] A government viewer cannot roll over every stone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u12	A respectable president. I object to the mission that the Executive Director is making here an independent surveillance agency, a National Reexamination, when the management body tries to use them as a villain for not investigating in sufficient ways the sales treatment in Iceland Bank and stipulation the promises made here yesterday that a research committee would be organized. In Comb 4. the legal management of the government's holdings on financial companies says: When an offer is made in part of the estate, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the prime minister with a reasoned assessment of it. The minister decides whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State for the sale of the holding object. Now it is reported in a statement by the Ministry of Financial Affairs: it should be granted that information on proposals or bids was never submitted to the Ministry of Economics and Economics. Yet the secretary of finance approved this sale. The man is not a man of his work. [[The president calls.]] The secretary approved the sale without knowing who was buying. This is the Minister who is responsible for the application of the laws on selling property of the state of finance. [[The president calls.]] He is responsible for fulfilling their purpose of law. How could he approve of the sale without knowing who was going to buy? [[The president calls.]] What kind of inadequacy and what kind of willingness is this? [[The president calls.]] And how should we believe that man has lied and lied over the years that he did not know all about who was buying? This is a disgrace, and I'm crazy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u13	I thank a senator for using the bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u14	A respectable president. This has been the case with those who have come up to ask us to investigate the case. A government review is the Agency and the Generals' headquarters and we hide the task, but, unfortunately, many have come up and are mistrusted by the Agency. We've been talking about how we want to roll on all the stones and have requested it, and I trust a public accountant so that if they don't feel they have the authority to recall all the information, they'll return it to us with a request to further investigation. We've kept saying that we want to have it investigated, and I think it's amazing when Congress members come up and claim otherwise. At this meeting earlier in our council members, we learned that we wanted to call a administrative and surveillance committee together, which would work together that we will prepare for this development. It was refused. We've really said that we want - if there's something about a state accountant, I want to go further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u15	Mr. President. I'm very sorry that the information that has already been presented about the offenders involved in this case should not be sufficient for the greater proportion to agree that there will be an independent research committee set up to investigate the matter. That's what this is about. This is not a matter of distrust or trust in the State Review per se but of different authoritys that these two instruments can use. I have to say, I'm swinging between being completely crazy and feeling very disappointed, mainly because I support this sale. I supported this sale. It falls with less ideologies. I was confident that the government, that the minister and the government, had learned something and wanted to be careful. As a precaution, I am confident that the General would be under the name of his patrol. [[The president calls.]] But here we are in the smaller part and can't get more part to take the step of having a research committee use all the authority it has to get into this matter quickly and safely and learn something from this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is incredible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u16	The president reminds us that chats in the side hall are a distraction, and films are generally not allowed at the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u17	A respectable president. The secretary of finance has been talking about consultations with the General, but now I'd like to say that consultation with this General has really been nothing. I'm on a financial and business committee, and it was fairly early to see that we were not discussing anything. They met with members of the Department of Economic Affairs, from the Bank Office, from Copenhagen, and they seemed kind of like a sect giving their religious lectures. I asked, "How are you going to secure possession when you don't even know who's behind a fund that buys? " Maybe it's just the same people who are buying at Arion Bank. That was demeaning. That would be such a good rule. I also asked: "How can you make sure that the ventaries don't just come back with the money they got from the banks before crash and buy the bank back? It was also demeaning. However, I had no idea that the ventaries would just be welcome, and it would just be clear, it wouldn't even be a hideout around them that they were buying. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Nothing in this surprises me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u18	Mr. President. First, I may ask those in charge not to lie down so low, as they have repeatedly done here, to say that we are describing a lack of confidence in the State Accounting. We're simply pointing out that the failure of Iceland's emissary emissary is of the order and that the work field of Kingdom Accounting is simply not enough to cover it. This is just what happens when the Independence Party is allowed into private banking. This will not be enough to determine this, but a committee of inquiry needs to be handled, unfortunately. That's why some of us know not to let them in the Ministry of finance. Yesterday, the head of Congress of the Left Green said that if Bjarni Benediktsson's idea of state retrospect wasn't enough, he would take his heart away with the idea of setting up a special investigation in the case, just his mind. [[The president calls.]] It didn't have to do with Bjarni Ben's mind. ... whoprovedifit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u19	V.E.G. President. I'm here for the reason that some members of the council have been giving me advice on how to direct the General Board of Directors and Control Committee. I'm here to state from this platform that the chairman of a committee is in charge. That's the way it is. I was reading on the Internet that a state reexamination has been granted the request of the highest level. The Minister of Economics and Economic Affairs, who intends to submit a report in June according to the request of the Minister and will then be placed in charge of the situation. Board of Directors and Control Committee. So, what happens until we find out, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u20	A respectable president. I don't really know what to say about my condition right now. To be honest, in this large part, I thought that there were wise individuals who did not let this happen. It's now time for the signal that it's right to go that way. But let us not forget that it was a minister of finance who introduced this process, and then everybody here is just like puppies trying to hang on to a financial minister and what he said was right. It is as if the group were afraid to have their own opinions. There is only one of the top experts in the United States who says that laws are likely to be broken and that the trade is normally broken. [[The president calls.]] Is it not reasonable, then, that it is all the way to investigate it? [[The president calls.]] Come here like a scared country up in a pit and follow this minister just right out of the cliff.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u21	Mr. President. There are big words that fall here, perhaps as usual. A minister is repeatedly accused of lying. There are big words, and I noticed that the highest. The president did not consider it a reason to make comments. I'm just gonna reiterate what I've said here. I think it would be wise to hide an independent party who works for the council and for the responsibility of the council to make the review he has now taken and on the basis of this assessment, to show further need or to show that something wrong has been revealed, I will support the proposal that a committee of inquiry will be established by the council under law. [[The president calls.]] It says so. I would like to remind the U.S. Congress that in addition to this, the Parliament has many other options to investigate the matter, including... at an open meeting that has been announced, that I know best, of a budget board with the Commission of the Bank County. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u22	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came to the very point: If he and the director count the occasion after a government accountant's inspection, then let them not go to a research committee. Okay, let's take a look at these statements. Government officials offered that we should wait on our demands, let them get started on their state reexamination investigation while there's an agreement that the decision to go to the NTSB would be on the basis of the government's stand. That it would be ours to evaluate, not those who have caused, but ours, who are not making the Minister here, whether after the examination by a government accountant who is so concerned with any other way in the past that after the study, we get custody of evaluating whether it is necessary to continue. [[The president calls.]] This was rejected by government officials. There is just one thing that can be read out: There is no room under any circumstances to allow the Allegorical Committee to act.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u23	A respectable president. I'm just gonna follow a word. paritaprevir The crowning of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir is to mention and call it another voyage that it's not about some distrust of a Kingdom Accounting decision. It's about that institution being very suitable for certain projects, and this project is not one of them. I'm going to retrace what I've traced here in a speech chair before. A government poller examined the privatization of the Bank, both 2003 and 2006, both of which found that the sale was acceptable. Then a research committee is formed. The NTSB will eat up the mud and the State Accounting Commission is then asked: "Do you agree to your opinion where you gave proof of personalisation? Yes, I do, according to Public Review, but I do so, it points to the subject as a subject subject of the Allied Research Committee, based on information and hints, to the correct conclusion, and on the basis of its extensive research documents, it shows that the data obtained by the State's Reconnaissance as a result were submitted as a delusion. [[The president calls.]] The NTSB has tools and tools that a government accountant doesn't have. [[The president calls.]] So, are we really going to be in the process here in May to vote for a new government accountant at the same time as he is studying this trade? [[The president calls.]] And it comes into the middle of this process during the course of the investigation, and we're in somehow voting on it here at the council, then with this case burning on us, taking a stand on it out of this bank sale. [[The president calls.]] This isn't working. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u24	President thanks again for the opportunity to use the bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u25	President. I'd like to repeat these words: The General Research Committee has tools and tools that the State Accounter does not have, because that is just the essence. This issue is precisely about the fact that the General Research Committee has tools and tools that the state accountant does not have. We offered, like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdosdóttir said just before, we offered it to the management members, if they so much care about it for some reason and we don't know why the reason is - there's no clear reason why but for some reason the government would have to let a public accountant look at this matter first. All right, let's do it. But we suggested that, in time, it would be the government opposition that would decide whether it would be established by a research committee and that it would have a further investigation, and that not more part, but the lesser part would decide, and we would just have no. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They don't exist to guarantee that. [[The president calls.]] What does that tell us? There is no interest in the fact that a research committee goes to this job, zero interest. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's being taken by the state accountant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u26	A respectable president. In Comb 4. the legal management of the government's holdings on financial companies says: When an offer is made in part of the estate, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the prime minister with a reasoned assessment of it. The minister decides whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State for the sale of the holding object. V.E.G. In the media, a minister of finance said that he was totally surprised by his father's being one of the buyers. Yet he had received the list and should confirm the list. He actually told the media that this caught him unawares when the art was published in the media. Are we supposed to believe this? Should we trust this process? Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said last night at the council that he thought the State Accounting should be discussed first, but if the council thought it would be more necessary to appoint a special research committee to review the sales process in this campaign, he would support it. [[The president calls.]] He never said that it was after a state reexamination had taken over the matter, but only if we thought it would be necessary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yes, we think so, but he doesn't keep his word from yesterday. He won't. [[The president calls.]] Why should we trust him to keep his word during the summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u27	Mr. President. Unfortunately, all members of the council are missing from this hall. It was a joy to see them come up here earlier, but the question I asked has not yet been answered. They have repeatedly explained why they want a government accountant to look into it. The question has not been answered about why they don't want a research committee. Now, we have given detailed reasons why we feel that a government accountant's investigation is not enough. It is because of his limited authority. It is not that the council can just jump up and provide the government accountant with the others and these sources, except that why should we do so when there is a legal arrangement for research committees? I pray to less. Fellow workers in the greater part: Can you explain to me why it is not possible to set up a research committee that, like the driving force, really can. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson said earlier, rolled over each stone, and looked into the matter completely. [[The president calls.]] Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u28	A respectable president. For a few times today, I've expressed myself on how I feel, as it seems, that all members of the Parliament who are in this hall, that it should be so that there should be a research committee to investigate this matter. As a result, I felt quite different from today's comment by Sigidur Benediktsdóttir's Sigríður, who made it clear to me that it was her view that the law was broken by a trade in Iceland bank and that she wanted to break things down. She's pointing to Article 3. The law of the law, which is a law on the sale of the government's property in financial companies. But I'm also staying at 4. Which states that the government banking agency is concerned with the sales treatment in accordance with the Minister's decision. It's the first point, and it's obvious, of course, but here the management points very closely to the Bank County, like the Bank Office invented it for themselves to sell. [[The president calls.]] But the second point is what follows, stating that it is a minister who decides whether an offer should be accepted or rejected. [[The president calls.]] - I get to come up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u29	A respectable president. Who's a state accountant? Who is it, appointed by the council? Does he exist? Should a person handle this investigation, possibly someone who will be in this job, and go against the majority of the items that will then decide to put him in the ministry? This can't work out, just not at all. Talk about someone who is not willing to take the case. What kind of bullshit is that? They are not malicious parties. As long as the council has not been discussed who is to be the next state reexaminer, this institution is incompetent to take this case. But should we wait until June for this matter to be handled? [[The president calls.]] I'm starting to wonder what I'm gonna do here after Easter. [[The president calls.]] It's just that there's gonna be a war until the end of Congress. [[The president calls.]] It's just that we're getting laid day after day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to remind you it's the highest. Financial and economic secretary who is the owner of state property. It is he who is responsible for being followed by the laws on selling property of the state of finance. It is he who is responsible for fulfilling their purpose of law. As I went over earlier, with a certain inadequacy that I'm not going to commit to here again, it appears in Article 4. The law that in the presence of an offer of property, the State Department of Banks should give the minister a general assessment of it. The minister then decides whether an offer should be accepted or rejected. There is now no evidence that the Ministry of finance was not informed about offer and offer. The Ministry did not have that information, had not received it from the Bank Office when financial secretary, government owner in Iceland, approved the sale. [[The president calls.]] This is an incredible fact. [[The president calls.]] This is the minister of command and surveillance, who is responsible in this category, although he keeps trying to point out the bank administration and to say that the responsibility is there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's perfectly clear, there's responsibility, and it's amateur. [[The president calls.]] It's amazing to be willing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u31	The president reminds me of a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u32	A respectable president. It is surprising that the Independence Party is not interested in this matter, since there is so much to it. That's even. The important thing is that we continue in a responsible, transparent manner to release the shares of the state in Iceland Bank. But it's being screwed up. It's the responsibility of the Independence Party too. This process cannot be continued and cannot be carried on if it is the same as in today's society. These steps are being difficult for us. I know it's been a tough week for the Governments. It's been one of the most difficult weeks of all during this season and even last, too. This works a little bit now at the end of the week, that there's an forward and independent party talking to each other and saying, "You're playing, I'm shoving you. Everything's gonna be okay. A VG then deducts it into stone. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a bit political, but I have the feeling that you guys are gonna leave the big thing completely behind and throw it out of the table, and that's building trust in this process, that we can continue the sales process in the banks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it is being devoid of trust, destroying a process, and at the command of the Independence Party. [[Take it up in the "VG."]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u33	Mr. President. Maybe it'd be useful if it were. Government officials would imagine that this situation existed at either the Danish Parliament or another Norwegian state, and whether it was likely that the senators there would probably consider who investigated a matter of responsibility or that the members of the council responsible for the minister's decision on what should be done in disproportionately overcoming government opposition. I allow myself to state that this could not happen in a state we would like to compare ourselves with. It's a custom, how we deal with corruption. Of course it's not about distrust of Government Accounting. It is a matter of trust in the trade process of things in Iceland, and it is important that we agree within the council at the same time, because if we do not agree, the possibility of an unconvinced investigation will be increased. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u34	President. In this process, there has been considerable criticism, understandable, and right, that people who have been given the job of offering out letters on behalf of a government fund, on behalf of all of us, have purchased our own letters. It's a natural adventureful, terrible thing. This has been very critical. We are asked: "Why not just a government accountant? A government accountant cannot publish these parties, this private member who was invited to call his friends and themselves, and accept approval for them, possibly to call and offer himself an item, to buy it, and then pay for it; a state accountant cannot call them to report, can't bring in a report. This can be done by the General Research Committee. That's what she's authorized to do. It also has the authority to protect them more fully from the informants in order to expose themselves in the presence of misbehavior. [[The president calls.]] A government accountant cannot do that. The biggest players in this scandal are the same members who were brought in there, except for the responsibilities of a minister. [[The president calls.]] They're not getting anybody's hands on them. This, however, does the General Commission, and that is why this greater part does not want the II Parliamentary Research Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u35	A respectable president. I think we're all agreed that we're not dealing with trust and credibility in the process of sales at the bank, but whether we're going to be trustworthy in the process, that it's our most important issue now. We're talking about selling over 52 billion dollars. Of course, then, it is vital that we do well. I mentioned earlier today that there is a reference to Article 3. law on the principles of sales treatments, but I think it's 4. Also important is the fact that when there is an offer, the State Department of Bankisits should give the minister a reasoned assessment of the proposals. A minister is given brief food, and this is his decision to make. The responsibility, professional and political, therefore, is absolutely by the minister of this matter, and it is his to answer for the source of his access to information. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Did he search these records, examine these records, study these records, and receive these documents? Did he bless them? [[The president calls.]] Or did he look at them for nothing?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u36	A respectable president. Today, the Allied Council is failing on Easter holiday under the shadow of a very serious scandalous affair. I just want to inform people who are following the Generals that we in our government position have done everything in our power to force efforts to regain trust in the community, to force them to make an independent investigation committee to review the sales in Iceland Bank. We've had a big break today, but we just hit a wall. You see, there's a lot of control here. Here are three major members of Congress, members of Parliament, who take the lead in their minister, and who make every effort to see that his dream route, his way of doing this, will become a reality. We will continue to do our best. [[The president calls.]] I wish it hadn't happened this way. - Happy Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-67.u37	Mr. President. I say it's sad that now we're gonna be going on a two-week holiday, and I guess the government's gonna check in on the cover that it's gonna be forgotten, it's gonna blow over and it's gonna happen, just like it happens. The government has offered it, as mentioned earlier, after a review of a government accountant, the minority will decide whether or not the motive is to appoint an independent committee, the General Research Committee, even though we would have preferred to do so immediately, but it has been rejected. I don't think it's the lack of the government's interest in such an investigation. I think it's worse. I think they're afraid of such an investigation because it's a case that can even defend the right to a minister's responsibility.
