ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u1	I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on Change of Public Pay Remuneration Act, Public Remuneration Act and Remuneration Act, extension of deadlines and extensions, as presented here. The committee discussed the matter and arranged for visitors to meet with them. The bill is a part of government operations to meet the economic influence of government measures to prevent the spread of pandemic crown virus. The bill suggests companies in the restaurant business with a primary Class II or III function, according to Article 4. reviewing restaurants, hotels, and entertainment, which have had to put the limits on opening hours because of the disinfectants, will be granted permission to postpone the local payment of the reduced remuneration and insurance fees on up to two days between January 1 and June 1, 2022. It is suggested that time be extended to March 1, 2022. This committee suggests a change in sleeping arrangements with alcohol companies. In between 1 and 2 pars. The bill is taken according to its material for restaurants with the primary functional class II and III shared at 4 mg. Section 4. reviewing restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment that have been restricted during opening hours. Under that category, there is an enormous and extensive supply of alcohol. The review of the Committee showed that there are a combination of measures in terms of Class IV residence at 3mg. Section 3. law, i.e. sleepovers with alcohol companies and members of Class II and III. In section IV, there will be a number of resting places that will be assigned to the restaurant business, which would have to be restricted. Many restaurants associated with beds have, for example. The magnitude of the event had to be greatly reduced or stopped at events that are important to their business, such as the Christmas altar. Therefore, it may be appropriate to clear the set limits of the law, and it may also take care of the operators. The majority agree with this view and suggest a change in the number of sites corresponding to class IV according to Article IV. Section 3. The law will allow a postponement of the reduced standard of pay and insurance fees. Qualifications and deadlines under the law of No. 141/2020 and number of due dates. In accordance with temporary VII legislation on the local payment of public pay and temporary XI legislation on insurance spending, it was permitted to apply for a continuation of the terms of up to three remuneration of the standard pay and markets of insurance pay, which were on days between April 1, 2020 and December 1, 2020. Day and day of pay was January 15, 2022. With law No. 141/2020 was added the same authority to the provision for the continuation of two donations on January 1 through December 1, 2021. A new due date and their deadline is January 17, 2022. In accordance with the seven preliminary regulations on the payment of public pay and temporary legal requirements, it was permitted to apply for a continuation of pay on up to three remunerations of the pay and market fees paid on a payday period between April 1, 2020 and December 1, 2020. The payday and the deadline were January 15, 2022. The law added the same authority to the provision for the continuation of two payments on January 1 through December 1, 2021. A new due date and their deadline is January 17, 2022. The more part suggests that with the same conditions laid down under the bill considered here, the remunerationpayers who use the above permission will be permitted to postpone their spending further so that they will distribute over six due days, monthly starting on September 15, 2022. At the same time, the more part contributes to the demand days of pay which are delayed according to Article 1 and 2. The bill as it was submitted will be the same six others, instead of four. In addition, the greater part suggests in consultation with the Ministry that the conditions for postponing authorization will be met according to Article 1 and 2. to serve as a remuneration worker in a restaurant that has been granted licenses under the law on restaurants, resting places, and entertainment until December 1, 2021. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, Ástadur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir and Guðbrandur Einarsson publications under notice that the matter was late and that the committee had little time for material discussion. Under these publications, January 17, 2020 Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Ágúst Guðbrandur, Einarsson Lóa Þórsdóttir, in advance, Mist Mestótir Einarsdóttir, Góðbrarisson, in advance, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, in advance, and Árnadóttir Mestós the Aarnar.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. I wanted to ask you why. A member of this matter that focuses on how incredibly late it is presented; I ponder over the fairness of the view that those who were paying the dues at the right time, January 1, do not have the option of receiving these pay back, but those who waited until the last moment can escape this payday. If the case had occurred at the normal time, e.g. Before Christmas, this due date would certainly be in January, and it certainly would have to be done by the food field - the highest. In the December 10, issue of Awake!, a secretary of finance claimed that there was a need for action and support for the catering sector. If this had happened in the New Year's Eve, the companies would have been equal to these measures, but instead it seems that an enterprise could escape paying public fees now on January 1 or not. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that the case had been handled before Christmas so that there would be more equal gaps between the companies that can take advantage of this injury?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Of course, I think the council would have liked to have this case before, and not only the council, but also all the hundreds of operators and companies who are out in the community who have had enormous uncertainty. But we are living in unprecedented times, and this is what is called professional rice control. We're in crisis control from day to day. The Senate is starting after a break today, so it was not possible to deal with this earlier and to have a big talk at the council for a year before finishing the budget. I'm glad we're here today because we're doing nothing but supplying a little oxygen here into our professional life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee for the Answer. While it is true that the council meets today, it is not a natural law to come together today, it is, in fact, the greater part's decision whether a body of Congress meets sooner or not if it is needed. It would have, for example. Give us a better time for Congress treatment than a two-to-three-hour meeting of the Economic and Business Committee today where we didn't have a chance, e.g. to speak to key stakeholders involved in these legislation. So, in fact, this case could be handled quite well earlier. I know why. The head of the Committee has worked hard to manage the Commission's meetings in good collaboration with the committees, and I think it must have been better to agree that it would have been better if the committees had more time to consider this matter, especially in order to reflect on the changes made in it, because they are rather complex and extensive, and I am not entirely convinced that they will achieve their purpose as soon as possible. An officer is aware. " I wondered, " I'm adding a place to stay, but at a meeting of the Committee it was found that lodging sites did not fall under these disease prevention measures, to which the bill is intended to respond, to meet, compensate for the loss of life,'i.e. that the Health Minister's Regulation on the limitations of the meetings does not apply to these sites. As a result, I wondered, " What is it? ' The head of the committee has made sure that, despite the changes we are making, this situation will be affected, because they have not been exposed to these limitations that are essential for this assistance. I hope I've made it clear enough. It's complicated enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u5	A respectable president. Hv. Senator. Thank you for the inquiry. Just to be perfectly clear, I thought I'd taken it out here in my previous answer, we'd have all chosen it had been longer. He doesn't have us. And our blood - bleeds companies also have no time, and we are also taking this into account. Is this procedure really effective? I hope so. As I said before, it is our will to provide oxygen to these companies. These are the companies, as stated on both the bill and in the Committee opinion, these are restaurants, these are clubs, and, yes, in category IV, there are e.g. Hotels, restaurants and restaurants, which have a wine permit or a wine permit and food. We know an example of a number of such hotels around the country that have been seriously hit and seriously affected by the preconceived restrictions taken here on opening up and on the Adventist, in which many communities actually had to lock up. I have hoped that by this operation we will be throwing lifeline to these companies, putting them through the scrap they've been living for now for two years so that they can live and continue to serve us Icelanders as well as all our guests who attend the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u6	A respectable president. We'll vote for this matter, Porta's council, i.e. We will support this case, with the exception of two teams in the change options of the more part of the Economic and Business Committee where we will sit by and I will explain it more closely afterwards. We don't have a committee program more part of the Economic and Business Committee because of the way the work was done on this bill and because of complete lack of consultation, both with stakeholders and others who might have something to say on this subject. We're finishing this case in one day when there was no need to resolve this matter in one day. But we're totally at the deadline, like what? The head of the Economic and Business Committee came in, where today is the norm of a single date suggested to be delayed. On the other hand, the highest. December 10th, finance minister, as I entered my opponent at what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, that there should be no time to waste. They'd have to deal with black jobs in the restaurant sector. Then it's been five weeks, and now in one day we should finish this. It's not as if these five weeks were useful enough, because the Ministry immediately sent an adjustment to the bill today to the Economic and Business Committee to fix things on their own bill. In addition, a chairman proposed some changes, which, in my opinion, are certainly an improvement. But with the short time given, we get the case at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, which is suggested to make these changes, we have no time to determine if this is the right method for these changes. We have no time to determine whether these adjustments are designed to produce the desired results. In addition, this delay that has been observed in the format of these legislations has the effect that enterprises are discriminated against by probation. Those who paid their dues on time, on due date, will not be paid this injury for this month. Perhaps this means that an enterprise that would certainly be about to pay higher fees now on January 1 than at all, due to December's roll, does not get so much appeal by postponing dues later on when the roll is smaller. It was not in harmony with the Committee to allow the reimburse such charges to end, though it must be indiscriminate, as is the case with all of these aspects we are working on here. But that the changes I can't support with my vote and will, they'll sit by, they're about to add sleeping places as part of these companies that can receive a reward. It's not because I feel that I may be opposed to having a place to stay if they need to, but simply because I'm not convinced that these changes as they are will result in the result of these lodging places falling below. This is because of what the Ministry said at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, that the bill assumes that the concern of the restaurant has been restricted by the Health Minister's Regulation. As I read it, there's no place to stay. As a result, I cannot see how these adjustments can produce the desired results and therefore cannot support them because I am not convinced that there is a careful legalization. It's as simple as that. I don't want to sleep in any harm, nor do I want to stop them from getting this injury, and I hope it will work out for those who need it. But there is no diagnosis, and there is very little work behind these changes because of the short time it took to win it when it is decided to do so in a few hours. I can't put my blessing on that. Finally, I'd like to say, most respectable president, that I'm getting very tired of having absolutely unnecessary issues here in order to be settled in one day. This is a gross disrespect for the role of the council. This tells us that the council is regarded as a time when it is necessary, totally unforeseeable. It's not like it couldn't have been done before Christmas, it's just not like that at all, or a week ago, so we had at least a week ago. can take three days to win this bill. This is a significant disrespect for the role of the council as a lawgiver to have us handle such a matter in one day. I'm calling again and again after the better policy of this government on legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u7	A respectable president. Today, it is January 17th and a day on a temporary tax-paying fee. It's not until today that bill is set up at the Council. There has not been enough time to negotiate with stakeholders, and it was not sent out a statement. It's a racer, even a hand runner, we can say. It's certainly rice control, like cod. A senator called it earlier, but this isn't a good crisis control. We knew a long time ago, years ago, that the situation is extremely heavy in this sector of employment. Here the minister of finance has been quoted, which said exactly on December 10 that there is need for faster hands. It would have to ensure that specific measures would remain in force with regard to the food sector. What happened next? Yes, earlier measures ran out, and the Council went home without the introduction of any proposed measures for this sector. It has been a long time since this delay in local pay, and it is completely incomprehensible that the matter has not come in sooner. It's also boring to the highest. The secretary of finance is absent when this matter is addressed at the General Assembly. This bill is the only thing to appear five weeks after his great statement of action for the food sector, but it did not seem to be fully satisfied because it had to be made a lot of changes now to the Commission, the Ministry of finance actually felt that there had to be significant changes in the matter, so it's just too bad. But this is a very important matter, and it is important that we take care of it now as soon as possible. Me and other representatives in the smaller section, part of the smaller part, literature under the committee under notice as a result of this rapid trial and due to insufficient consultation with stakeholders. At least we support the bill. But this is not how we can win. Now that we have been dealing with this pandemic for two years, there are regular steps to prevent the disease prevention, and they are lifted, and they are retreated. We need to start learning a little better about this. They must be required by the government, e.g. that economic measures will be introduced as soon as effective preventive measures are introduced. I also think we here at the council have to take a much larger role in this disease control business and maybe work these economic measures further ahead and plan, draw up stage photos, as is done on the contaminant side. I think we should do the same on the economic side and be ready to pack when necessary. I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u8	A respectable president. As we have seen in the case of others here mentioned, it is clear that this case could have been completed sooner. It is not that it is urgent to finish this now except simply because the case was not resolved when it should have been done. These are important actions that have been left behind by stakeholders, and we certainly support this matter. But I would like to point out why we take the time to discuss matters here at the council. I believe that it has come out and has become clear from experience what is of the greater part of this council may not be very interested in knowing what we in our smaller parts have to say about things. But not only are we involved in the discussion and development of subjects when they are given adequate time but we are also. stakeholders. Therefore, it is a concern when these measures are handled, for it is not enough for a certain group to be taken for, a particular group, that is reserved for which these measures are achieved, but, at the last moment, it is added to more sources. Thus, it is necessary to examine this from various viewpoints that are not even present here at the council Hall or on the committee. Now I don't sit in a financial and business committee and my accounting knowledge, and it's limited to my tiny law firm, which I referred to for a short time. That is why I would have liked to hear what anyone else would have learned about this, including those who are excluded from these measures, as it is, and then to hear about the consequences of other changes that are put on the part of the greater part. It is important that such support includes those who need it most. In fact, we here today just have to believe that it is designed enough to do so. I just wanted to make this a matter for the greater part, that cases are being discussed and if they're not running through at the last minute, it's not just that we in the lesser part get to bring our ideas and suggestions. It's about the nation, that the people who are concerned have the potential to come to them and expand our understanding of what is suggested. That was all there was in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u9	A respectable president. The mountain became feedable, and it was born a small mouse. I think I have to compare these actions to that now. These are not drastic measures to save a job, which has been on the brink for a long time. I'm not gonna spend a lot of time here, and I'm gonna slow this down, because I'm gonna back up this case, even though I think it's like being extended to the hanging chair and it's gonna have to do a lot more than it's gonna show up for us. I also see here that this class, IV. A group, falls under this. We know that there is a considerable number of companies who perform a rooming service and also build their resources on a restaurant business that has been pointed out to us. that many places planned to keep a beautiful Christmas dinner before the New Year's Eve, all of which had been blown off. It has been a great loss, making it impossible for many to arrive at this point. It seemed strange to me before Christmas, when we were trying to melt the budget bill through the year to experience the tactics I felt were at hand. I found it very strange to read that the workforce that had been around for quite some time would blow off. I couldn't see, at least not in my environment, that they were no longer necessary but on the contrary. For some reason, people were in some kind of mad panic attack, thinking that it was all over. But there's no such thing. There are a lot of companies that need these options and I now calculate that we will have to dust off them and take a closer look at them. I had this experience as if the air had been taken from the lifeboat. Now, it is only time for those who did not have the resources that were present last year to fail on due date today. A respectable president. I'm gonna back this up, so I'm gonna vote, but I'm expecting it, and in fact, we're gonna go ahead and do some tricky work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u10	A respectable president. I would like to thank the members of the council who have come and participated in this discussion. It's important, and it matters, and it's true here that we have to take the discussion. Just like what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson mentioned earlier, of course, that we need to look ahead, and we need to look to the future and see how we are going to get out of this. There are signs now that we may see the end of this, that we can slowly move our lives back to our original outlook. I have the hope of doing so. But it is extremely important that we, sitting here, who make decisions have a tremendous impact on people and families and businesses in this country, do everything in our power to help these agencies survive the actions we have taken in our community. Of course, it is not enough to postpone only the pay of public pay, and we will not see this unless we go along for that work. To say, when I talk about cohesion, I'd like to thank my partners on a financial and business committee for their cooperation and for having worked a lot today, and I'd like to thank the Senate as well. We're still sitting here, so it's a long time in the evening, so each of us is adding our weights to the scales to the economy in this country and extending help to our companies. Thank you again for the members of the House and for the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-21.u11	A respectable president. This is one of the two teams in the transitional proposals of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee where Porta's party sits. I came to appreciate the reason in the previous talk on this subject, but I wanted to justify the fact that we were sitting by simply because we are not convinced that these changes will be successful. I proposed at a meeting of the Committee that the Committee will take time to present its own case in order to ensure that the directive is effective. Of course, I wish I was wrong in this case, but I don't think it would have been worse to be sure that the law would work in the light of the speed of the changes made. As a result, we sit by and do not support this law.
