ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the United States Assembly to ensure that Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigesdóttir will be absent in the near future. A letter has also been received from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, the Trausti of Trustin Friðbertsson and Tómas A. Tómasson that they cannot attend meetings in the near future. Today, therefore, at General 1st, a deputy of the National Front Party Arts. "Friðrik Már Sigurðsson, 1st Lipper of Pirata, Smoke. n., Linya Runn Rún Karim, 1st Apostle on the National Independence Party list. "Berglind Harpa Svavarsdóttir, and 1st Avenger of the Ganggs of Smoke. n., Kolbrún Baldursdóttir. Linya Runn Rún Karim and the Kolbrún of Baldursdóttir have taken their first seat at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u2	The letter of Friðrik Már Sigurðsson and Berglind of the Harpa Svavarsdóttir Hövarvarsdóttir has been investigated and accepted, but they have not taken their place in the World Council before, so it is necessary to sign a royal pledge to the Constitution. Friðrik Már Sigurðsson and Berglind Harpa Svavarsdóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u3	The President has received talks from a council of the Agency for the change in committees, cr. 1.mg. Section 16. As a matter of fact, so that the Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson takes his place as the head of the budget committee instead of the Ingibjörg of Isaksen but also that Ingibjörg Isaksen takes place as the head of the Environment and Transport Committee instead of the Liqué Anna Sævarsdóttir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u4	Borist has received a letter from a social and workforcer requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 337, on the recognition of cross-border diagnosis from Andrés Ingur Jónsson. There have been letters received from a health minister asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries of the inquiries. 360, on the cost of state funds screening for Covid-19 and onjaw. 362, regarding the memos of a pathologist and the decisions of a minister, both from Bergþór Ólason. A letter from the Food Minister has also been received where the request is made to provide written answers to such requests. 383, on labour warrants, from Sæland Goad, to the threshing floor. 387, on line taps, on deck. 388, on contracts for vacation fishing, and onjaw. 372, administration of a fishing agency, all from Lilja Hynu Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Finally, a letter has been received from the Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister, where you request an invitation to provide a written answer to a covering query. 512, on the climate impact of fiscal fishing, from the Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Guindardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Food Minister, Education and Children's Ministers, Social and Professional Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u6	Mr. President. Of course, you're kind of shy in the face of this crowd here, but I'm going to go up there and ask the highest. Secretary to the economy. There are signs that homes need to be worried. It is growing, and inflation forecasts are bad. Therefore, in the United States and other government groups have called for specific measures to ensure that the economy is not resuscitated by vulnerable groups and have proposed here at the General Assembly for counter measures to take into consideration. As a result, a press minister of business went up and declared that the government has already identified the situation and is aware of individual groups. It has been a bit of apocalyptic throughout February, and directly proposed direct action, specifically mentioned three; that the government is taxing on individual articles, such as seabed soil, that banks are using high - quality resources to subsidize interest from housing loans, or economically the government will place on bank taxes, and that the government will use the growing system with greater weight. Some of these ideas have been presented in the United States, including the United States. that the most profitable business in the fishing industry pays more for society and that the growth reform system should be used better than has been done. However, the leader of the Independence Party has totally objected to this and disagrees with the minister of the business in all its basics. That's why I'm asking the highest. Ministers on three: Have business ministers been discussed in the government? If so, what is the government's attitude toward them? And third, because the argument has completely occurred between the Independence Party and the forward party: What is the position of prime minister to these proposals?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I must say, I'm so happy to see the senator as he is today. It gives me hope that we have finally reached this place, that we will return to a normal life. But to answer a question, why? I think the economic situation reflects that the government's actions due to the epidemic's impact were effective. We've regained the number of jobs lost in the epidemic. Hv. When we discussed the situation both last year and first, a senator remembers that there were some who feared that we were dealing with chronic unemployment caused by the pandemic. They have not been followed because we have used the wealth of government with full weight to meet the public population in the country and the commercial life in the country. Today, growth is in the same place as an epidemic, reflecting some increase in economic activity, just as growth decreases reflected that the economy was contracting because of the epidemic. That's how operating growth of cash banks works. The problem is that I know two things: On the one hand, inflation is everywhere, and it directly affects the standard of living. However, it's the housing market that I think will be one of our biggest issues in the months and years. As a result, I have appointed a continuation team to handle housing matters that are designed to serve specifically at a housing market. In order for me to answer a petition to the secretary of the business... they have not been discussed in the government. On the other hand, I would like to say in general about my position that I feel that it is our job to meet those who are in a palace, and I especially want to watch those who are in a rented market, which is the most dedicated people in the world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In fact, inflation begins to make a real impression on the possibility of making ends meet. I'll find out in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u8	The president reminds us of a limited talk time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u9	Mr President, I must call for a clear answer. How important it is when the heat goes up, and large groups will be in trouble when the government is completely intervening. It is clear in the discussion of the last days that the forward party wants to go a completely different route than the Independence Party. Then there's a question: Where does the WG say? V.E.G. Surely the prime minister said before the situation shows that the government's actions had succeeded. You can understand. The prime minister makes her feel that she is in good shape and does not need to take this special action. Well, for the housing business, it's going to be the highest. Of course, prime minister to take into account that the government has not undergone sufficient measures, specific measures, in supporting the country's homes, but rather let the banking system be left a little after the distribution of the money is one of the reasons why housing prices came up in the roof during the greatest crisis period that we remember. [[Set up a million dollars for the square record.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u10	Mr. President. I must make a note of it when it happened. A senator wrote that the banking system was left behind to distribute money. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to point to a decrease in interest of interest? And it's a w-w. A senator resists the decision, which, of course, is not taken by the government, but by the Federal Bank, to reduce interest here in economic activities? It would be only very interesting to know what the United States feels about it, for their language can be understood to have opposed to growth reduction. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator asks me: " Is everything all right? I'm saying that the subjects are different now than when the main government was holding up here as a professional stage, and I think most of the people in this room agreed on that reaction. Today, however, inflation occurs. We need to act. Therefore, I especially look to the facilities that governments can do to cope with inflation. There will be no overlooking the lack of volunteers. A third of the new apartments that were built last year and met earlier came about by government action. It may simply have to be done better and to build even larger things by means of government action. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll lead them to the general apartment system and I'll lead them to the shared loan system. Then we need to look at the survival of those who fail, and that includes. The ones in the rented market and young people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u11	I'll lead them to the Continental proposal for...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u12	President. The democracy thrives on open community talk, and free media is the cornerstone of this discussion. The public would never have learned the Samherian case, the Clerical, exonerated the case, the Panama Documents, the Paying Department, and other important matters if it had not been for journalists to inform the public. Now it seems that the Prefect of the District Department, where Samherji, at headquarters, adopted it by herself to use a different legal interpretation of the laws of penalties changed to protect sexual privacy, to define journalists as defendants in a matter of alleged violations of privacy. Keep in mind that these are journalists who revealed the harsh and presumptuous ways of Samera's spies, stalks, and silences journalists in their work on the Samaritan case. These are the journalists who informed us that Samherji was plotting to prevent a key witness from occurring in Namibia. V.E.G. In fact, the prime minister, if I do not forget, said that this is simply not what people are doing, following this seeming discussion. So I ask the prime minister how she sees it that the police decide to interrogate journalists for their discussion of one of the largest people in Icelandic marine soils, the same as being examined by serious corruption and bribery, both in the country and abroad. How does it look? Is this the case with the prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and first I'd like to say what. There is no need for a senator to question my integrity in supporting the press. I personally presented a bill in 2011 that became a media law that underlined the protection of sources and strengthened the rightness of journalists. In 2019 the council adopted my proposal for a revised information law that also strengthened the position of the media. 2020, the council agreed to my proposal for the protection of the informants, which again supports the role of the media in a democratic society. As far as I'm concerned, no one has to question my position on the importance of the media in a democracies community. I have stressed that such legislation as the ones I have listed here must always be interpreted in the light of constitution and human rights agreements and guided by a judicial action. If we look at the judgment program, it will reflect the fact that armored city has frequently been identified as professional journalistism in the public service. I'd like to say about this particular case that the police have given very little up on the grounds of an investigation other than the alleged violation of privacy, so it is not fair to know exactly what law is relevant. Therefore, as a minister, it is difficult for me to comment on the specifics of this matter while it is for study. However, I would like to say that I was, of course, shocked to learn that four journalists had been called to the hearing of the defendants'case in connection with their report. Of course, we trust the police to be aware of the importance of the media I have discussed and why. A senator has discussed and discussed the issues of large corporations, which are researched and their conduct in connection with it is issues of urgent concern to the public. That's what I think to be absolutely clear. I also trust that the police are very aware that any research procedure directed against the media can have a powerful effect and should be started only if there is a big motive and a moderate effort is taken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u14	President. I appreciate those answers. However, in view of the fact that a minister has covered everything she has done for the media, from 2018 to today, the number of media standards has decreased by well over half. This is the highest time. Minister has sat on prime minister's chair. It is a huge adulation from a class that has the responsibility of informing the public and granting control to rulers and, in fact, is a major concern. This tells us that we haven't done enough. Not only so, but the chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The minister of finance goes to great lengths to contribute to the mismanagement of the legal status of journalists and to the special protection that their work enjoys. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: She is not concerned about making a statement. Will the secretary of finance further undermine the freedom of the press in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Prime Minister accepts speech at the highest. Secretary of finance on these matters? What is the result for the free media? [[The president calls.]] What effect does this have on the media's ability to communicate?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u15	Mr. President. Because of what you've heard. Of course, I was primarily discussing the legal status of the media in my previous reply. I don't think it's clear that the cases I mentioned, and I've taken the initiative here at the council, all of them are willing to improve the legal status of journalists and the civil rights of the press. This does not change the situation of many media users, and the bill that was adopted here during the last term, with official funding for special media, was, of course, an attempt to meet their status. However, there is controversy about what is best in this regard, for here we have not only a national media market in which the media are active but also competition for foreign markets. And because of what? A senator may have so many questions, but I would like to say first: We have to trust that the legal system and the police operate according to the laws and regulations that have been established. [[The president calls.]] It contains specific and clear views, such as the protection of authorities. I know this well, and I trust that those matters will be governed by law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u16	A respectable president. I am well aware that it is not in this government's will to go to the seabed that we feel is going to give the most to the nation. It is clearest, transparent, righteous, and that is the market route, in our opinion, that about 80% of the people also want to leave. However, the minister has been quite clear about these matters in this hall earlier in the United States, and it is clear that this is not the way she wants to go. But it has certainly been drawn up, a respectable president, in fact, a number of recent events since here are digesting classes within the government, which declare that they are ready to raise hunting costs in the present environment, raising fishing costs on the seaside. She agreed that the fish price could be raised and that it should be. That is why it is urgent to ask the highest question. A food secretary does not intend to use this important opportunity, which is now coming into our hands, and at the same time this clear part here at the council, as there is more in the council to move on and increase. The fishing costs as long as we live in the present environment. Will the Minister offer suggestions for raising fish costs? Will she test this large part of the council? And if so, when can we expect these proposals to increase the rate of hunting from the highest level? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is certainly true that the amount of money combined from the fishing road is one of the things that have been under consideration for years and even years. on the construction of the fishing fees at any given time. At the same time, it is clear that the aspect of the fishing system is one of the people to whom we go to the work that lies ahead. However, I declared it here during an unprepared question period some time ago that I had set aside to publish a work plan on a seabed committee referred to in a government contract. This work is going well, and my plan is to use a government memo at the end of the week to review the situation and set them up as a work programme in government consultations so that the public can arrive at an early stage. I think it's very important. In fact, we're all under it, and then we're both talking about the viewpoints of employment and specific urban activities, and we've been discussing coastal fishing, etc. Also, the issues related to the integration of markets, intermediate prices, and other factors of this kind, as well as the current issues. A senator here mentions the viewpoints that depend on the extent and extent of the fishing industry's contribution in a common fund. These factors should always be discussed, as is true of those times when we are looking for a financial crisis that was under discussion earlier in the question period. Then, of course, we are talking about both the spending side, which has been discussed as well as the possibility of earning money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u18	A respectable president. With all due respect, I think this is a secretary's answer to it is a total escape. They're hiding behind, once again, mapping, proposals, etc. I just wondered how many reports have been written on this in the past except for all the reports that have not been published. But that's another story. I would also like to remind you that one of the first privileges of service was to decide, in effect, to kick smaller fishing companies, coastal fishermen, and miniboat sailors. It was a very simple decision and the first act of office. My question is very simple, in view of the fact that the VG has even. rejection of all of our proposals for the temporary binding of agreements, for transparency, for the scattered ownership of etc. The situation is different now. This is a very clear question: Will a minister take the backup form Progress and secretary of business at the word and suggest a rise in fishing costs? It's a simple answer: Yes or no. Will the minister propose, take advantage of these words and the will that can finally be detected in the advance, and make a suggestion here for us senators to take sides? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u19	A respectable president. As mentioned in my first response, it is to ensure that the general public is allowed here, which is very important in such an important matter as this, right at the beginning of the project. I'd like to mention the excellent fact that I've been a minister of seafood for ten weeks and years. For ten months, the minister of the sea emissary was without any interference. Let's see what happens, and I've at least got it. In view of what has been done in the past in this category, it is important for the public to arrive. Prior ministers have not done that with large tasks like this, but they will be done this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u20	Mr. President. Secretary of the government. Recently and as a result, the prime minister has been in a position to make a statement. Einarsson The above reference was made to the introduction of cultural and business ministers, as well as to their comments on bank issues, threatening to reimburse bank taxes. I understand that Ministers have not completely figured out how to work at the Board of Directors. It's getting pretty complicated, just like it was replaced. But then came the highest. Secretary of finance, secretary of banking, out and put these ideas cold. But what was equally interesting was at the height. Prime Minister, in an interview that the secretary of the business could have a conversation with bankers and ask if they were not willing to reduce interest, made it a subject of the fact that the State still owned the Bank and Bank of Iceland, and the money paid by these banks would be used in social resources after the Korean epidemic. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: was the highest. The prime minister has already negotiated with the highest power. Secretary of finance that this would be the case, for all we've heard from the highest level. For this reason, is it possible that the debt should be subsidized and perhaps financed by the Union's urban history in Reykjavík? Actually, it happened that at the same time, quite, and the highest. This announcement was made by the prime minister during an interview on the Department of Economic Affairs Homepage. The secretary of finance paid off selling Iceland banks, to complete Iceland's private banking this year. Has the highest. Minister to the highest. Secretary of finance on how to use the funds that thus comes into the state's budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u21	Mr. President. Hv. A senator brought in so many things that I'm already worried about the time. But if we start with the position that the state of the Lands Bank, and it's my opinion that the state should own the Bank of the Land, and that the state has as much of the bank in Iceland, it is, of course, so, as I pointed out in this interview, that of course, it will benefit the public of this country when these companies achieve as much as it really does. And do they make money in social activities? I said, in part, in this interview, we should use it for social action. It will be necessary, in the wake of a pandemic, to put their arms around vulnerable groups or those who have experienced great distress during this pandemic. There will be a need to put our arms around them because even if professional levels are low and unemployment is low, we still have a significant number of people who have been out of work for more than 12 months. It's important to put your arms around that group. It is important to put our arms around those who make up them, who are chronically ill, disabled, and others. I felt like I could tell a tone when it was dark. A senator discussed social action. I'm not going to minimize the need for those as a result of the situation that has been here. And we all know how much this epidemic has affected people and not only on vulnerable groups but also on young people, for example, who have been able to live quite differently. So, yes, these groups are going to be put on their arms, and there are ways to make the most of it. It is then completely premeditated that it has been on the agenda of this government to sell Iceland banking. Of course, this will have a significant positive effect on the State debt of a large estate. And because of what? A senator named the City Line, and I cannot help but be tempted to mention it as well. I think it will also be a huge biography when we complete the task of building a powerful public transport system in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u22	Mr. President. V.E.G. A prime minister would not have to worry so much about the time if it was the highest. A minister focused on answering questions rather than on keeping those traditional topics as high as possible. Minister wants to talk, try to analyze some tone and stuff. I'm simply asking the highest. Ministers in view of the clear statements: Is supreme. The prime minister has already negotiated with the highest power. The secretary of finance on how money from Iceland's bank will be new and expected, the first thing we're gonna do is sell the bank, and no more remuneration will be expected, what will be the new result? We all know that social activity requires a lot of money. V.E.G. A minister specifically mentioned that this money would be an earmark for certain social projects. What's that assignment, and it's the highest. Minister has made a deal with the highest power. Secretary of finance for that special arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u23	Mr. President. With that. A senator thinks he's welcome to teach me how to answer questions then I can point out why. It's a good idea for a senator to have the questions not quite so many when asked and not always blending the city line into the questions. Of course, the government aims to aim for a response to the epidemic. That's what we've done all along, and now, as we hope to see the end of this epidemic, the government will agree completely about it - because of it. A senator sets it up as we sit here, me and the minister of finance, and negotiates some kind of money - and that is the focus of all these categories that command the government that it is important that we take care of the social structure in the wake of an epidemic. Because why? A senator quoted my words then, I mentioned, because I was specifically asked whether such money would run into a project, that, in part, it might result in it. But, hey. A senator knows as well as I do that the money they earn goes into the state's budget, strengthens for social projects to leave the state's budget, and there's no one who thinks it's the same thing. When it comes to the same question about the value of Iceland's bank, it really is the same, but, of course, it is looking to the point that if that sale remains, it will matter to the debt status of the state. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Will social structure be attacked? Yeah. [[Up front.]] That's the answer. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u24	A respectable president. My question is addressed to the highest. Secretary of education and child care as a representative of the government's juvenile affairs. Children's demand for professional services at government institutions, such as Development and Behavior, Analysis and Advisory Centres, and BUGL is at the most historically high. The average waiting period varies from one to two years after the ministry. Thousands of children spend much of their youth on the list of lists. For example, at the end of 2021, 77 children were waiting for the BUGL walking services, 39 children by transgroup, and 17 children by eating disorders team. 95 of these children have waited for more than three months. Studies and studies have shown the results of child distress. That's a lot of concern. The growing distress of children was a concern for Covid, but is now getting worse. The question is, has the highest. Education and child-friendly ministers have their children examined for emotional and social purposes, especially those who have waited for professional services for months or even years? Have you had discussions with your children on the list of waiting, as well as their parents, about how they are handling the wait? If not, is a minister interested in attacking such an assessment? Research has repeatedly shown that the problems of children who do not receive a mental - health service are likely to grow. A child who has to wait a long time for the necessary services due to spiritual discomfort may be at a much higher risk of resorting to extreme poverty, such as self - injury and suicidal thoughts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the three - team inquiry. Yes, there is a serious situation in the case of a third and that has already occurred. The senator asks if some investigation of the situation was made. By the end of the last term, much basic work had been done between the Ministry of Health and the current Department of Social Affairs to analyze this waiting list, see how they overlap; consider the groups there, and work to provide a basis for action. We've had a very good conversation, me and the health minister, because this has to do with much of the classes that hear under the current education and child - care departments and in what way we can fit into this. This is also one of the highest. The prime minister quoted an advance request for social action because this is one of the growths in the Covid epidemic and is important for intervention. But this is also part of work in the basic structure of children's affairs because all of this is a third degree of resources and what we expect is that when we bring in the successful legislation, with increased emphasis on first and second phase measures, there will in some way reduce the need for a third degree of resources, as well as increasing communication between systems will also reduce the pressure there. But that's where we need to respond. We've been working on it, and I expect we're going to see operations in that subject. But let us not lose sight of the importance of responding to the first and second phases of action because in the long run it reduces the need for a third - degree resort.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u26	A respectable president. The question concerned whether there was a conversation with the children on the list and with their parents. Once again, it is reminded that during the long wait period, events that are classified as waiting for tolerability may become sudden, one second. It is certain that in the event of an emergency, there has been a problem and has been crushed while waiting for service. A waiting process may cost us our life and may even have done so. This is the question that the children and their parents do not experience themselves as any number, one number on a waiting list, a waiting list of hundreds of thousands of children over the years. The waiting problem is a deep - seated problem for this government and the former one. The city is also a city of waiting, but there is another occasion to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u27	A respectable president. I have personally had many conversations with families waiting for service, and that has been the driving force in continuing to improve the situation of these groups. That has even been true. ... letsup intotheplace where we decided to start the foundation by going into the success legislation, the first and second stages of resort, the conversation between systems. In the Treaty of the current government, there is a special guide to third-order and measures in general, and we are going to do that work. We will begin with the weightiest talk, but then we are guided by a clear set of rules and legislation regarding a waiting period of time for service, a type of insurance for service. It takes a total share between all the parties who have come to create and introduce the most successful legislation. I have faith that we will be able to spend the waitings for the necessary services for children and children's families, but in this work a new thought, new approach, and a conversation between systems is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u28	A respectable president. The plight of children who need specialized farm care is extremely severe and difficult. According to a report by the Child Protection Committee of the capital area, which was published last year, 33 children are defined as having a complex problem with development, disability, neglect, connection problems, autism, consumption, violence, or other contributing factors. These children need support and security in a safe environment, and they need numerous extramarital services. They all need equal care of two to three workers 24 hours a day throughout the year. These children, in many respects, had a gray area in which they served in a language - language field with disabled people from a country in 2011. In recent years, they have experienced cutbacks on government services and have often faced closed doors in the system. And who fills this vacuum in the service of children with many problems? Yes, private institutions have increasingly stepped in and invited rural communities to serve in this delicate group. With these institutions born, for indeed they need and an important job, the price is immensely high. Each child's cost can run at tens of millions of dollars a year and up to 150 million each year. Clearly, it is a great comfort to bear for the large - scale urban population. The above - mentioned report includes: recommended, on permission of the president, that both countries and rural communities are involved in building measures where there is a clear and well-defined cost exchange and a wide variety of services for children with multiple problems would be ensured. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of education and child care about two things. On the one hand: Has the government's clear policy on how to build a variety of resources at different levels in order to meet children with a wide variety of challenges? And second, have the highest. Any plans for how much money will be needed on the part of the State to ensure adequate service for this vulnerable group?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this very good inquiry, saying that it has something to do with the inquiry that was here too. This is important when the analysis has been performed as a means of service. It's just like what we talked about earlier that there's a third-degree plan. As shown in the case of what? The senator is so important, because this is not something that the State alone can solve, the Ministry can do anything about it or the local community alone can solve it. A conversation between these parties is required to reorganize the services we're providing, including, the services we're giving. based on child protection laws. That's what's going on and was going on with a review of the previous part of the child protection law during the last term by putting down political Child Protection Committees and extending child protection problems. In the second part, which was not reached, including Because of the Covid epidemic, we're going to split this work into two phases that we might have reached otherwise, is to review the third-level resources provided by both integrating them with the new success legislation but also map out the new resources we have to resort to and in what ways they are getting their communities at that job. There's a lot of cost to be done in between. One of the most important projects now in all work when it comes to the affairs of children and children's families is these two, i.e. On the one hand, the analysis and its resources. But it will only be resolved in a conversation with our rural society, and we are well off off at that job. I was to film at a school assembly this morning, where we were discussing exactly how we could do better with children with the largest needs in cooperation with school so that we wouldn't have to come up with this third plan. It will therefore need funding into this, from state to country, both soon but also in length because this will save in the long run. So we're working on our policy, including our cooperation with each other. we've got rurals, we've got to deal with other clients. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u30	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education and child care for the answers, and it's great to hear that this work is well worked out. How important it is that the State meets this challenge with powerful and specific instruments! These measures need to be flexible and adapt to those in need of the ministry, and of course, it is important, as the minister mentions, to integrate the knowledge and service available at different levels of government. Then I'd like to mention that this report I refer to calls not only for third-order measures but also for the integration of different resources in different levels. But since a minister mentions the law on integrating services for successful children, I'd like to ask how the highest. A minister sees to it that the integration of these systems is enhanced, especially in the context of a multitasked paediatric service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u31	A respectable president. I thank you for this inquiry, and I agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of building powerful and selective resources. We do so in cooperation with rural society, and we need to have more resources for children, not only with numerous problems, but also with measures taken earlier because of their long - term successes, not only their importance toward families and individuals and children, but also their overexploited investments. Regarding the funding of these measures, we simply have to work with the European Union, the National Society, and some rural communities. Farmers will also need to become involved in that work because we calculated success as well as the result of the government's exploits. It's simply work that we need to speed up and work together with the induction of the successful legislature, and I expect us to see the sparks of its first products.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u32	A respectable president. The Icelandic Civil Court is given in two ways, by the International Parliament and by the Governmental Administration of the Foreign Institute to meet certain conditions. One way is the responsibility of the U.S. This situation was raised in December and still exists at government levels, i.e. A foreign agency in the shelter of the highest. Minister of Justice, refusing to comply with the arrangement decided by the General for the appointment of applications to which the Senate is responsible. This situation, of course, has become an intolerable situation. Now I've lost the number of times I've come up here to seek the direction of the President in defending the respect of the council against governments in which there is no progress. It won't hurt, it won't happen. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. The president whether any further conversation took place on behalf of the president, however, would I like to ask: Has the Allied Council ever been able to respond when governments refuse to carry out their legal duties toward the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u33	To make a long story short, there have been conversations in this, and the president meant that there was some evolution in these subjects. Then there is another issue: Here was a discussion of the President's conference board recently requested a legal report or a memo on interpretation of 51 st. This work is being completed by the lawyers of the council and by the information of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u34	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator that's completely unannounced. Mr. President is actually going to have to run for the Generals and for us a great deal more of the Committee that thinks it's a hook-up. It's like, in life, when you see a guy fired in the sky, you don't make much of it. If you see a second and a third and a fourth, you begin to draw patterns, and you can begin to draw conclusions. We may need to consider now as a minister in this matter, with the contributions of the alien law into a consultation, with the review of contracts with the Red Cross employees and others, whether or not we are looking up at a rather repugnant development in the affairs of foreigners. But in this matter, Mr. President must enter strong. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u35	A respectable president. Now I have to say that I was expecting to have the case somehow, because I know no better than the Subcommittee of the General and Education Committee to meet this morning and to review the first narratives received from the Foreign Institute and at the same time were informed that these comments would now be transmitted by the Subcommittee at very regular intervals. So I expect the Subcommittee to start work immediately to review the reviews received and it may take us a few weeks to download these reviews with some 170 references. I don't know any better than we should be doing well, and I expect we'll have a good partnership to cover this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u36	A respectable president. I'm the first vice president of the General and Education Committee. I have been in the public assembly before for this matter, even testifying. in an article in the highest. Secretary of Justice, Visi. It seems that he does not understand that preparation for law is not a administrative matter. The comments of the Foreign Institute are not administrative. There's an information gift to the legislature so we can make a law and we can give it to a citizen's rights by law. The applications addressed to the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders are joined together and mixed with envelopes in the Foreign Institute of Iceland. It's all stirred up into one pot, and then it's done in a row. It's two separate systems. The second system is based. Section 6. which will provide citizens' rights by law and by law and by then. 7. which is the host of civil rights with a administrative decision, not a law, on the part of the Foreign Institute. This fundamental difference seems to be the highest. Minister of the Interior is not understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u37	Mr. President. I want to join in with my colleague, and I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the president of the General and Education Committee, for coming and explaining what seems to be very clear in the case. I also agree with what. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson, who handled the matter very carefully. I'd kind of like to sneeze, and that's what surprises me. Me and the senators have had a few conversations with us at the highest. A president who has explained the matter in his own way, but we believe that it is too slow. But I thought about the approach of the government on this matter, the members of Congress, who are temporarily responsible for the executives of the Commission, and I was now putting my hopes in the Supreme Court. Prime Minister here in the hall when we discuss this, because it must satisfy the government's executive, the class that has spoken a lot of respect and authority, to direct this mission because it is at the highest level. Prime Minister. This is a conflict between individual Ministers and Generals, and I wondered if it really is this way. One minister envisioned that the development would be in her time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son. We've discussed this with the highest power. Prime Minister. She said in unsubstantiated inquiries that she intended to discuss this matter at the highest level. Minister, that the law wouldn't work. Then there is an open meeting in the General and Education Committee, which will be held in the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice - I'm sure it's his name, I know that there's a lot of confusion in this, even with the legislatures in the hall - that they haven't gone deep into this, the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Minister of Justice. I was wondering, at the very least. The minister of what she said during an unprepared question period that she was going to do, that she was going to make a defense before the council, that she was going to discuss this matter with the minister of justice. What happened to them and their promises? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The head of the General and Education Committee for coming in here. She mentioned that she feels that the matter is under way. That would be wishful. It is only in the direction that the Foreign Institute has decided it should be. This has been done by a foreign - language agency in an effort to deal with the arrangement established by the General. The arrangement was in that the General Assembly supplied these applications twice a year, and it was decided to have an application deadline. A foreign agency is not going to do this. In 1st. Section 6. The U.S. Civil Rights Act says, by permission of the President: A General Assembly is legally entitled to civil rights. Before an application for citizenship is submitted to the General Assembly, the U.S. National Institute shall have the authority to give it to the chief of police at the applicant's resting place. Furthermore, the Foreign Institute shall give a review of the application. This process is the custody of the council. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir A year's EvemanEyjólfur Ármannsson pointed to a few minutes ago, not government therapy. This is not for the custody of the U.S. It's a legislature at the General Assembly, and it's to be controlled by the General Assembly, not the Foreign Institute, and not the highest. Minister of Justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u40	The president wants to guess, as the senators have noted, that in discussions about unprepared inquiries in the past, changes have occurred in the council meeting area, so all members of Congress are now sitting in the seats they drew at the beginning of their Christmas seminars. We've removed a table from the upper room and a reading room, which is the work area of a conference agency, and chairs moved in and the vote system linked accordingly. In the minister's room and chamber, once called a journalist's room, there will still be three levels that are not associated with the system and chairs in each room that the senators can use if they want to stay away from what happens here in the Senate Hall. However, our hopes are that Congress can now be applied in a more natural way than has past history.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u41	A respectable president. I am glad that the General is about to agree to our report on the effects of domestic violence and sexual abuse when it comes to the mutual right of a child and a parent. There are examples, more than one and two, that governments force a child to associate with a parent who has been judged for sexual abuse against the child itself or against its siblings. We also know that for a long time the parent's violence against a parent had no effect on association. This is here at the General Assembly, and we need to talk about this, whether it may be that the right of parenthood is too strong in Icelandic law and whether the legal process is too parental and thus affects a child's right to protect against violence and the principle that what is best for a child should always be first. How many children have been cut off by governments to associate with individuals who have been sexually involved with them or with their siblings? [[The president calls.]] How has the Ministry of Justice responded? [[The president calls.]] What is the significance of medical proof and childhood evidence? [[The president calls.]] This is what we're going to know. This is an important step. I thank the council members for the transport and support of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u42	The president will need to remind you that the time for a talk to explain a viewpoint on a vote is limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jónsson is very sorry for this matter that I really agreed to be a associate of. The situation in the Icelandic world today is in the case of domestic violence and children, in the case of at least one capable parent holds child - protection in hand and points to a businessman. Then it has become what is called custody or association between parents. The problem is that there has been a lack of interference in this system to take the child's position with sufficient consideration and to view matters from his or her child's position, not as a disagreement with his or her parents. I think this case is immensely urgent in order to get all the information we need to find out what is needed to correct it, to legalize this serious initiative in our legislation to protect children from violence and protect them from becoming a witness to violence. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u44	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the change of civil penalties in regard to a foreign bribe. The bill is a factor in strengthening and strengthening the ability of the Icelandic government to expose, investigate, and charge charges concerning bribes to foreign government employees in international commerce. Iceland validated the National Cooperation and Developmental Convention, OECD, on a foreign bribe break on August 17, 1998. Since then, the Icelandic government has actively participated in the implementation of the OECD special working group, known as Working Group on Bribery. The work group's committee conducted the assessment on land 2020. In December of that year, a fourth report on the implementation of Iceland's contract was published, but the review was merely an indication of the ability of the Icelandic government to expose foreign bribery, as well as their investigation and the prosecution. The report directs several guidelines to the Icelandic government on action to improve in order that the implementation of the national Convention may be in accordance with its content and the requirements for Member States. So the bill is formed in order to fulfill this recommendation by the working group, in particular according to the regulations of the public penalties involved in a foreign bribe. The subject of the bill is largely legal. The adjustments proposed to be made in Article 264. a aims to make it absolutely certain that the law also includes the payoffs that are directed toward government officials of foreign companies in the same way as the 2 mg. 109 gr. magazines are generally used by foreign employees. In addition, a change in the criminal peak due to violations against the 109s is required. and 264rd par. a. Is that the case in order to respond to the panel's recommendation that the punishments for a foreign bribe should be comparable to those of a 128th bribe arm? The law of the law, i.e. to a maximum of six years in prison. However, there is a limit to the rise in the number of penalties required to use a recording home in the 69th grade. b The law is the conviction of a foreign bribe violation. Finally, a change of 81 C.E. is required. The law of the law, which includes the deadline of the penalties of criminal responsibility due to violations against 2 mg. 109 gr. and 1st. Section 264. a will be ten years for the current five years. The bill is an important part of Iceland's meeting the international commitments established by the government by signing and validating the OECD payoff agreement and will no doubt be the result of the approval of the bill to support the Icelandic government in the battle against foreign payoffs to international employees. A respectable president. I have now explained the main points of the bill and suggested that the case be referred to. General and Education Committee and Relations 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u45	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the presentation of this small but very important matter, and he is delighted to take a strong interest in the removal of foreign offenders. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice how he envisions that the government can fulfill its commitments. Closely looking to the Samerja language, which was revealed on November 12, 2018, through the interest of the hour and the spark of what happened in Namibia some time earlier, when bribes were brought to foreign rulers and foreign employees by Icelandic employees, apparently but little has been asked here. We discussed the matter here during the council that he would need to be strengthened by the district attorney so that he could respond extensively in the enormous case, so that they would have enough strength to study the case and complete it within a large amount of time. I'd like to hear only the highest position. Minister of Justice, whether the office has been supported and whether he can foresee the end of the matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u46	A respectable president. How the government can fulfill this agreement - in itself, I am not worried about it. It is not surprising that we follow the laws that apply at any given time and deal with the issues that may need to be addressed. Here is one particular matter in this context, asking whether a district attorney's office was fully supported. We live in a number of bottlenecks in this system of ours, which comes from an investigation into the district and then to the courts and to the full. There are unscrupulous necks in the system that has long existed. That's what we're looking at, so we're trying to act at the Ministry. We're trying to look at the whole thing, so that we can be more efficient in the system we live in, which is very important, and that's not just a case of this kind, but, in fact, most of the cases. I have not received any messages from the district attorney's office in particular that an investigation of some particular case that would have to put some increased force into it would be a distraction in this regard. This is more of a general nature. But I know that they also have priorities after their importance in the opinion of the prosecutor, and I have no information about what they have to do with the individual cases, as they do with divorce.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u47	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. I'd like to ask him to look into more closely which neck of the bottle he's talking about as one of the problems in the system. It is important for the Council to know which necks of the bottle it is, whether we need to change the law or take any special action in the house to enable the justice system to function properly. We immediately made a suggestion to the 2019 budget for the increase of funding to the district attorney so that the number of workers could be increased to the point where the investigation of this particular case could go well, because it is, of course, a serious matter and has a lot to say to Iceland's credibility at foreign level, Iceland's credibility as a nation involved in international business, etc. It is worth pointing out that the first arrest in Namibia occurred several days after the case was revealed, and the first sentence in that land was pronounced in February 2020, or about three months after the case was resolved. But in Iceland, there's no news. Some years later, reports had not occurred against the alleged defendants. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The Minister of Justice intends to use the means that economic crime does not take decades of treatment in the system but can even run out in a few years, for the benefit of all, including the defendants.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u48	A respectable president. Of course, the necks of a bottle I quote here are all light that has been monitoring progress in these systems in recent years. They take place both in the field of research, in the prosecutor's attendance, and then again in the general field. We need to give a full review of all these factors. I view this as one assembly that needs to be successful and effective, for the benefit of everyone. The General took an active part in this step with us for a year at which the Ministry's wishes for greater contributions were met. That's well, and I'm grateful for that. That there was an increase in funding for the district attorney to make an investigation of this one possible - I know nothing more than that this case works out for me like any other case. I just don't have any insight into it, because I'm not watching some particular thing, but the officials are working what they can, and I trust that work is as fast as possible. Would I be inclined to take advantage of the priority of economic crime in research and through the system? No, not particularly. In itself, I don't take any lawsuits in that regard. [[Up front.]] My view is that sexual abuse is also a very important group of subjects, and I'm working on it, and I'm working on it. Violence is the same as it really is about most matters, that it needs to be won faster and better than our system has ever done. I don't take economic offenses out of parentheses, but I know from my conversations with the district attorney's office that include their issues and priorities, as well as their importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss a report of a foreign-suspecting group or a payoff to foreign public employees. The 2020 report, the highest. One minister pointed out that Iceland had fully met two recommendations from this working group and, in part, two more than 13 remain. It seems quickly to me that this law may be able to tick for one or two more boxes of this, in fact, 15 more days. The biggest comments I saw in that report, which I read with great interest in in the year 2020, were that we do not have any useful or procratian, so I merely fell down, a respectable president, a way to investigate such a bribe. There is no initiative around this. In addition, there is the evidence that such a break in the way of government activity has been done, and nothing has been done to cope with it. This is shown in this report. So I ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that this team of workers expects to answer from Iceland this year what we are doing to deal with the 15 recommendations left: Will this be the answer, this small adjustment, technical nature, which is being proposed or is being developed to support the actual ability of the authorities to deal with such offenses as this in Iceland, and is available to investigate the fractions reported to the Icelandic authorities, which were not taken into consideration at their time?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u50	A respectable president. There is work to meet further recommendations made in this report, so that it is clear. What is mentioned here on increased authority to investigate these factors, and this is true of other offense groups as well, it is only a valid indication that the police lack authority, more widely available, to file a case in which a certain offense is not suspected. It's got an earmark like that. This is developing in a number of areas and is usually closely linked to organized crime, where police can form information from foreign police authorities that there are people here who need to be monitored and even activities that needed to be checked but law officers are not there. This threshold, for example, has previously been observed in police reports involving organized crime. This has previously been discussed at the council, but the council has never finished the proceedings because there have been very conflicting opinions as to how far the authorities should be able to handle these issues. I will contribute to the next bill, which includes the wide range of reports. It is of utmost importance that the council take it for a dramatic discussion and that as soon as possible, we can participate internationally in information exchange and information gathering. At the same time, it is obvious that we will increase the pressure of the small department of police working in this field, and we need to strengthen that level of activity at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to assume that no one in this report I see any recommendation or advice to the Icelandic government to set up premeditated authority as the Minister here seems to be putting up with it. It's not. However, the work force suggests that the police have the means to investigate such a case and that they can, for example, do research. To match the possible violations of these legislation, a more careful monitoring of property contributions and other sources is needed. The report describes four cases that came to the Icelandic authorities where only one of them has been investigated, and the Samaritan case has been investigated. The other days just upstairs, and there's nothing you can do about it. An international report in Iceland says that only one of four cases has been done. How is this credible, respectable president? The report also says that this team of workers believes that the only major challenge for Iceland is the view in Iceland that such a fraction is not found here and that it is one of the main challenges to research such as these for cleaning. Based on the discussion that has followed in the Samherja language, I am surprised that by 2020, these views were so prominent in dealing with the Icelandic government. But this is something that we have also seen in the discussion of money riches and other things here. It seems somehow, especially with the conservative arms of the politics, that Iceland is so small that we don't have to worry about money bullshit, as if we somehow just had immunity for it, we've been vaccinated because we're so small. [[The president calls.]] So I ask the highest. Minister: What will he do to further the intelligence of the police, and then I'm not talking about premeditated authority, but of human resources? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u52	A respectable president. I don't know what the conservatives mean. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir is witnessing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u53	Your assistant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u54	Let's just be absolutely clear that I don't think of as an individual, as a member of the Parliament and as Minister of Justice, except that in this country the offenses that are cited here are, and that includes taking bribes, total money. I'm just looking at very specific issues that are involved, and I'm clearly in place. The question is, How do we react? Hv. A senator calls for an increase in the number of police officers. I'll agree there's an increase in the number of police departments. I stress in my preparation to the proposal that, at least, we know what we're getting for the money that's in our system today. I have a special assessment of how we can make better use of the human resources we have for the purpose of distributing assignments abroad, thereby strengthening the office of the police, and then adding. It has been handled, as I said before, by the Generals with extra funding into the lawsuits that will be of great advantage to us. They're responding now that the University of Akureyri can expand her studies from the next fall of police school. A study is a complex phenomenon, especially in the cases we have been referring to here that are related to organized violations, and I now do not talk about sexual crime and violence. This requires much knowledge and experience. You don't take people who just got out of school or who don't have this experience, they need to be trained up. The training program is taking place in these issues as well as in others. We're responding to this, and we're going to have to look for more funding from the High Council, and I hope that people will support it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All of this will lead to a failure to increase the number of police officers, to act on it, and then to be able to recruit police officers. [[The president calls.]] I'm trying to do this in an organized way and a good perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u55	Madam President. The biggest characteristic of the bribe system is that it never just comes into the hands of the authorities, the payer of bribes, and the one who accepts it, each strives to hide the trail. Therefore, more than just the law is needed if you're going to put your arm around payoffs. This requires the targeted work of the institutions to care for the interests of the public, the interests of business, and the interests of the State. Bribery is always used to reach a conclusion that is unnatural to our actions, abnormal with regard to the interests of the common people, to achieve a decision that serves special interests, and may lead not only to abnormal conclusions but to dangerous results. It is often an abnormal influence on the decision of public members. The changes presented here are relevant and positive, in the first impression. They're timely, and more than that, for Iceland has long been under criticism because of the weak legal laws to deal with this type of offense by bribes against the interests of the entire population. Our legislation has long been weak to deal with the most serious offenses, not just in this country, but in all international context. Governments that talk about defending wood are alert to these dangers; they are alert to them in a foreign country, as well as abroad. The gross violations of domestic parties to foreign sources are a disgrace not only to those who accept the bribes but also to those they offer. They're a black mark on those who use bribes and those they accept. It takes both sides to make such a fraction happen, and both parties are doers. The failures in these matters are common and society as a whole. Therefore, the government should be an aktiv, not a retort in this struggle, for a bribe is a violation of all things to society and, of course, is one manifestation of corruption. As I mentioned at the outset, one of the main features of these serious offenses is, of course, the fact that the parties are making a deliberate effort to hide them. No one comes to the police charges, and most of them don't. There's something here. The media play a tremendous role. In this regard there is reason to remind us of the obvious truths we all know, and to keep in mind, that the situation in each community is reflected in the status of democracy. Because those who use bribes and those who accept them will never take their own initiative, it is so important that the institutions taking these cases on the land, i.e. Police, State Marshal, and the prosecution have not only legal authority but also opportunity to show initiative in looking for these offenses. This is also true of other institutions that supervise and maintain public interest. If it's more than just a word in a word of law that this is, then the initiative of these institutions is required. In this regard, I want to make the most of it. Ministers of Justice to action and beg him not to forget that the police, the prosecution, and the courts are also involved. With the support of the government, the U.S. Marshals and the SEC, it is important to have the support of the government. This is also true of a member of the Generals. All the institutions and offices I mention here are public guards and public interests. These institutions are key institutions to protect the public from organized violations against the public. These institutions are also infrastructure. Sometimes it is awkward to listen to stakeholders and even certain government politicians speak in a way that these institutions exist. At times, it may seem that having these institutions ill is the most convenient thing to do for some of their interests. But it does not serve the interests of the common people, nor can it ever be done. We see an example of this coming close to us and getting close to us in time, and we also see how the thread is involved in this discussion. I've been here before, actually, many times, and I've talked about a trial period in the justice system as a measure of how this government handles the institutions that are supposed to care for the interests of the public. This problem is indeed in the face of economic crime, and it must be done better. It must be shown by government support of these institutions, because they are the principal interests of the public by possessing efficient organizations, and by having the ability to handle matters in this way and at the time of the prevention impact of society. Of course, this criticism focuses primarily on the Independence Department, which has been with the Ministry of Justice for years. There has been considerable lack of apparent ambitions to support and strengthen these institutions. But I'd also like to point it to the highest. Minister of Justice how important it is, especially here today when we are discussing a bribe, examining this series and the system that it is all about. In November 2020, reports were made that the Icelandic government had taken 18 months to reform and take real action against corruption. GRECO, a European Council organization against corruption, had then reviewed the situation here and offered suggestions. They felt that the suggestions they had made had not been made by the government and in accordance with the need. GRECO has now and specifically stressed that governments introduce the results to the public. That was November 2020. The deadline was until 18 months. That time is coming. In the autumn of 2020, especially in October, Iceland was taken from a gray list of FAFF, an international financial group of countries on antiquities and terrorist funding. Of course, it's obvious, you think, in the international context, but Iceland is not divorced, that bribes, money laundering, and even terrorist activities in the Icelandic context are linked. Unfortunately, Iceland had no use of this list, for it has long been the failure of the government's efforts to control money. Having such a list is not merely a question of high opinion but, rather, can bring about an independent crisis. One thing is to land on the list; another is the result. The negative impact on financial activity is one thing, and then, of course, it does not have to be long - held that news of a state on this list probably does not diminish the interest of those involved in this crime of government. They're looking for where the goods are. Government action was not sufficiently strong. The government got 18 months to take the test again, so to speak, and in this context, we need to stop and look at the overall picture. Also, in the fall of 2020, it has been noted that the then delegate of the Generals, Tryggvi Gunnarsson's son, declared to be at an open meeting of the administrative and monitoring committee that the office did not have the opportunity to perform the initiatives in the administration. The basic principles of this office are of utmost importance, that it can take the initiative and take note of matters, take note of progress, look into a process of improvement where it seems to be the cause, instead of accepting only the issues involved. Of course, it is important for the public to have an agent to seek out, but if it fills his whole program and he can never take his own initiative, then the office simply doesn't quite have his name. An agent said that because of man's skill and project weight, the office could not handle the matter of personal initiative. I view him as saying that he was saying that the office could not fully carry out its duties, caring for public interests because governments did not support the office. This policy simply works against the people of the country. The role of the agent's maintenance and surveillance is extremely important. If an agent is in the position of not being able to handle matters on his own, the credibility of his office is in danger. But this too is government credibility. So it's very important to do better here and look at the bill here for treatment today, and I want to give the highest compliments. Minister of Justice for that, in the context of the situation of the institutions that should deal with such projects. Here's a case I like to add to the rule itself. According to one report, it is prepared to respond to the proposals of the National Economic Cooperation and Development Organization for a bribe in international commerce and a workgroup report from December 2020, to support the fourth assessment of the EU report on the implementation of Iceland on a contract against payoffs to international public employees in international commerce. The deal isn't entirely new. He was fully validated by Iceland in 1998 and gained a 1999 value. A work group of OECDs about bribes in international commerce, which have the responsibility of monitoring the project, had run around for some time in Iceland to see the need to sharpen the law here. However, the main concern was that governments had the ability and ability to expose offenses involving bribes to foreign public employees, who say by investigation or inquisition. And of course, I'm not going to belittle it, when the law was a core point there, but also an initial point. It is interesting that in the report, the work force expressed concern that the Icelandic government has not yet completed an investigation into one criminal case involving payoffs to foreign public employees, not one. I'm going to finish my case by repeating that I'm celebrating this matter. I also want to reiterate that these matters are not in the light of the day unless someone tells us about them or someone receives information. It takes initiative and strong organizations that have time to work on these issues. Hence, such a law will be in effect if not accompanied by ideologies and leadership from the highest degree. A minister to instill this law in his life. It can be the highest. A minister did this by supporting the institutions that now receive this tool. That's how the highest possible. Ministers in position of community interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech and a really good review of what I've been calling to undermine the ability of surveillance agencies in Iceland to perform their role in the public service. There's something I've seen to be done in the history of this government and the leadings, which is actually the same government, with repeated attacks and escapes against the ability of the independent surveillance agencies we have to do their job. And because we're talking about a foreign payoff, the Samaritan case comes to mind, of course, and the fact that at least a large part of the matter was delayed for a minimum of six months, as I know, due to cohesion of the office of the tax investigator and taxation without the development of cross-overs between institutions. It was extremely hurrying to get this union together before the election, before the Senate's vacation, and not allowing protocols to ensure the safety of those who moved between the institutions, which meant that a large scent of the Samher people was stuck because the projects could not be moved between institutions. I wondered, because of what. A senator has experience from a job as a prosecutor, how he looks at it, knowing that such a big case is actually pacified simply because he needs some guidance, simply because the government adopted and decided to unite organizations without having any plan on how to handle the issues of these institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u57	Madam President. I want to thank you for a good question from what? Senator. I'm going to continue talking about the need for political leadership to support these institutions, and of course, no change control should be carried out to an unnecessary root. We now see it at the last 2 billion dollars. The minister's backside, but its consequences and effects are that there's a lot of slow passage in the entire administration. Generally speaking, I have faith in the institutions I mentioned in my talk, in the realms of integrity, and I also know that people with arms are working hard. Of course, it is a government job to stand by these institutions in the interests of the public, and this kind of noise, as the senator mentioned, is not ideal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u58	A respectable president. I asked about this in particular about the treatment period and the effects of such a quiet six - year - long delay will have on the outcome of the case itself. That was part of the reason I asked about it. But, of course, I must agree with what's happened. A senator on the importance of political leadership and the importance of government support to agencies that work for the public in the country and feels very sorry to see the lack of support and support on which these people live. I'm actually going to experience this as a follow-up to a surveillance facility. Hv. One senator noted that she believed that the members of the directors of these institutions are often in the way of things. I wondered: " To whom exactly?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question and the comment on the duration of the treatment because he is very busy in the community today and very closely in the context of sexual abuses. Yet, it is a fact, although not much of it talked about because economic crime is less effective in the media, it is a major problem in that issue. These are heavy and complex studies in which people need to be able to have time to put everything into their affairs, and they simply need to be lacking because they need people. But I agree with what. A senator in it, and I specifically mentioned that it must not happen. One thing is that the forces of interest speak in this way, that the surveillance is available. But this must never be done on the part of the political community, since it serves the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u60	President. I worked years ago on quality control in a computer company. In fact, it was a matter of working on whether or not the rules that they applied were being applied and taken within the table. Much of that work was being watched by certain cops. Is anything going to happen? Is there an intermediary, trade, or sale or such factors that require some investigation? You've heard stories about that, like. Before a crash, such spontaneous announcements were received by fax to the police, where one employee took them out of the fax machine and file them into a file and put them on and on. So on vacation, when nobody was doing it, the paper went out, and there was nothing printed, really fun. Then, after a summer vacation, there was quite a drop of events related to the collapse, since this was about 2008. I wondered, " Is it not normal that there are some government employees or officials who have a position that is actively monitored for a particular risk, a bribe, or a potential conflict of interest? ' [[The president calls.]] Would it not be reasonable to focus on some kind of automonitoring? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u61	Madam President. I appreciate the question. I think about these violations that because the words are so big, bribes, corruption, etc., it's an independent crisis to think that in a small community as Iceland can't do this. That's what makes natural complacency complete. I'm going to admit that I don't know what I'm talking about. A senator is asking, but I did believe that on behalf of the police there were only people for their work who would have to meet or answer some question list. I admit I don't know well enough whether this is a test and I don't think I'm going to tell myself anything more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u62	Mr. President. I was wondering, for example. Regarding Ministers, that when a person becomes a minister, he does not automatically subject himself to a certain legal arrangement, even for some time after he is a minister of service, because we know the exact legal process that has often occurred. Bribery is often not just a direct payment, a brown envelope underneath the table, but it is sometimes a particular source of housing, which is often much more difficult to observe. I was just wondering if there is not a certain delicate office that is actually at risk for interestfulness, a strong relationship that is about to happen spontaneously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u63	Madam President. I think that's the way it is. That's how specific parties are in the financial sector. It's the case with members of Congress, it's a registration warrant for judges, etc. There is also another matter to follow up with that information. I admit, I don't fully know what it's like. But because you mentioned the payoffs, which, of course, are a serious threat to community interests, the directive is that they try to control all the factors that such a fraction can take place, not only by payment, but also by other manifestations, try to achieve, e.g. Decision of abnormal interventions, gifts, fees, I can't remember how that's all listed. But it is exactly the way it is in Icelandic society today that there is an information obligation to certain sources that would be in that position for their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I just want to look into the wisdom of a man. A senator who has studied matters and such. Now it's 2013 first, if it seems right to me, which is pointed out that these changes need to be made. The OECD report points to the need for at least what's in 3. The law, and even the rest of 2. The bill. It's quite remarkable that it's taken almost a decade to add this, to write the 116 words this bill is, just to get better protection against bribes against foreign authorities. I'd like to ask you two short questions about this: A senator that said that we finally caught on this list was the kick that the Icelandic state needed to do something about it? On the other hand, I wanted to ask. A senator knows whether these articles were judged within the country or by a foreign bribe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. If you read the report, you seem to have started work earlier than today when this bill is appearing. I'm going to give the highest. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry. It doesn't change that it's taken a long time. This adjustment in itself is not complicated, a bow to an expiration, a higher degree of punishment, etc. The other question was, Would these regulations have been judged? I don't know that. I'm at least I don't know. Of course, this review remains in the report itself as to the situation in the field of research. There is no evidence that this was true or that there is much going on. I'm going to let me point out again regarding the status and intensity of the system, then to the human resources and money, that we all know that, of course, and don't have to be a lot of political attention to know that the independence party has been the longest with this Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u66	Madam President. Yes, there's no question that it's the Independence Party that's been dragging their feet into this for almost a decade. We can guess why. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator about something else. One of the factors also mentioned in OECD's report was the need to develop good support for informers, whether they were government employees or individuals reporting such a bribe. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that we have done enough in these matters. We know that unless someone accidentally e - mails everyone at the Council instead of one person or something like this surfaces, unless there are some who have the courage to come and report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u67	A respectable president. So I keep going with the answers to the previous question why. Then, as I mentioned, it was noted in the report that the work force had expressed concern over the situation that the Icelandic government had not yet completed any criminal investigation of payoffs to foreign employees. V.E.G. Two years ago, the prime minister had a case, or whether it was two years ago, that dealt with the factors. A senator is asking. I think I've done quite well there. The second is to create the situation where people in the community have confidence that it is, in effect, possible to reveal matters in this way. There we are back on social variables; what is the debate, how is social tolerance for the rise of strong sources, what is the status of the media, etc.? It all needs to be played together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u68	A respectable president. I think it's a pretty big deal here, and I think it's my job to get into the platform where, earlier in my career, I was working on some of the issues or almost completely the same issues. That was when I was working at the F.O.P., but then I joined the third estimate of FAFF, Fanic Action Task Force, in Iceland's position on money laundering. Here the OECD is quoted as giving bribes in international business and working group on bribes and bill is intended to be the answer to that working group, Workgroup on brobey. First, I want to say that there is an enormous amount of legal requirements in the penalties that have a similar origin and that appear in this bill, a foreign background. The money - control laws and then those legislation and other laws come from international cooperation. Then Iceland is measured, what it's like to do. It is of utmost importance to the Icelandic government, and I hope to the highest. Minister will take it to heart, that Iceland will be successful in this estimate. We often speak of being the best in the world and of such things at home, which is fundamental to our standing. It's relatively easy I think that I can do it, become the best in this field, and it needs to be followed closely. When I was in the financial industry, a 2006 report came out, I was working on the follow-up, I was actually retired, and I ended up in Iceland landing on a black list. This showed complete failure to control matters, to say the least. It was relatively simple, but you began to wonder, " Is this not going through at the highest level just because it was foreign? ' This was truly remarkable. Iceland's reputation is a complete wreck of money fraud, even though we're descended from this list of Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries that don't have any control systems. At any rate, these matters are watched very much. So this is absolutely grounds for much discussion, and the management system should take it as a top priority to follow all non-condemnial recommendations and other legislation. For this bill in particular, I draw attention to the fact that I think it's special because in pars. is a change in the range of 109. a general penal law, which increases the penalty score from five years to six years, from five years to six years. That is a law of bribes in favor of government employees. This contract, quoted in the OECD Convention, is made up of the initiative of the United States as shown in the bill, a contract for the battle against bribes to foreign public employees in international trade, written on the scene of OECD, on the part of the United States government. OECD is such a club of rich nations. There, the nations in the OECD developing nations promise that they will punish merchants who carry bribes in foreign employees. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. 2 mg. 109 gr. modified. I would have thought right - and I know it was legal - that the whole law was there, that it was one law. Now it's all lit up. It is also being made up of an official enterprise that is discussed in 264.g. a. I think it's much better to have it all in one article that attracts bribes to foreign employees, whether it's a company owned by government, and, of course, there are always individuals behind it, or those foreign workers. I don't think it's right to place it in two places, but people can think of it. It was mentioned in a fine talk in advance. A senator stated that the work force had a meeting in December 2020 that approved a report on Iceland as part of the fourth assessment of the national work force. Her primary concern was the ability and ability of the government to expose any violations of bribes to foreign public employees and to investigate them and to prosecute them. So they are concerned about their abilities and abilities. It is absolutely essential that knowledge and ability be made in the offices of those matters and those of the local prosecutor's office, that it be strengthened to handle these matters. I can't help but refer to the report as stated in the bill, by permission of the President: The work force is concerned that the Icelandic government has not yet completed one criminal investigation to pay bribes to foreign public employees. Now we all know that there's a matter going on with the police authorities that are attracted to payoffs in Namibia. It's been working for a few years, and I know it's the best. A minister is authorized by the criminal law to request information on his case, such as other criminal issues. That there's still a case in the investigation and it's not finished - and it may well be that there's some tax share, I don't know it the way it just happened, but then it's just cutting it off. This has been done in more cases, the Bug case and other cases, the Byrgis case. Then the tax part is split off and the penal code is taken into two pieces, i.e. I'm not sure I can't do that. That we are still dealing with this issue, so to speak. It undermines public trust in governments that it has not yet been completed or at least To inform the public where it is and why it takes so long. This is absolutely essential. The bribe of a foreign official is completely 101 on payoffs and corruption in the world. It's an introduction shower, absolutely. Therefore, this agreement was made by OECD back then. How sad that one of the largest and most powerful factory in the country has ever been in this case! I know it only for myself in this way that since there is a lack of opinion among foreign corporations, the matter must be finished as soon as possible, and then life continues. There seems to be something else going on here in Iceland. So it's very basic. For the whole bill, I think it's important and the comments I've brought here. I hope there's a good committee to treat. There are a number of factors to consider in this regard, as well as the fact that it is not sufficient to bring only the law, and it must also promote the level of research and knowledge of these matters. I have participated in research on corruption issues abroad. It's complicated and long. To get information, you need to send the so - called ◯letters rogatives between countries, which are a specific problem. This is also a cooperation with foreign police authorities. However, there is another problem, and there are leftovers about business and so on. It would be very informative to take up a discussion about that, and hopefully a bill that turns around when lawyers are managers in these companies and no one knows who owns what. One of the cases that put Iceland on the black list or list of noncooperative translators was that we didn't have enough clear legislation on the real owners of companies. For what's to be bribed, that's the money policy before that, in 264. .. and that's a natural principle. We have fixed the law there, and we need to promote that lawsuit further. Little Iceland is supposed to be able to do these things in a very good way. History shows that we have probably had one of the biggest fuck-ups in the West when we hit a list of noncooperative states, especially when we can do very well in this regard. Let's not be talking about Iceland as best we can in any way in the world until we do well when it comes to this sort of assessment, and I'm not talking about the follow-up. - I have no more words about this for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u69	President. I thank the senator for an interesting talk about FAFF and the issues we are dealing with today. Hv. One senator mentioned that he had been working on certain issues regarding these reports in the past. It would be, I think, a good thing to have organized affairs like this in a controlled country of his own. I don't know that we have a lot of research on this. Like what? A senator named them not one case has been completed in this country. But what is our context in this and how do these indications apply to us, not just those direct films, but all other types of pay work that can also be classified as bribes? V.E.G. A minister calls this a technical matter. But part of understanding how it is technical is to understand the scope and background of the problem. Why is this technical adjustment being made? What may cause problems regarding specific matters in the past, giving reasons for dealing with them in some way? Or are we just ingesting something that is an example elsewhere? There's some sort of basic stuff back there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Technical or not technical. Of course, it's international cooperation. The Icelandic prosecution and the police authorities participate in international cooperation, where certain preparations are set, such as FAFF, Finlandal Action Board Force, and recommendations. This recommendation goes into the EU rules and from there it enters Icelandic law. Then the question is, How do we produce the laws and maintain the values originally established? Then comments were made, and in 2006 the goal was to reach the Northland ratings. We did it. Perhaps they were grades in the areas that may not have been as important as others, we had to improve with a real owner, make them stronger, that is, absolutely a core point. We had to add money to the office on this very core issue. We're all willing to do within the system that's working on this case group, Iceland, little closed Iceland, we're getting instructions from outside, and it's just great. In many ways, this is an enjoyable work. You'll meet staff and people abroad and there'll be some kind of communication, some national community, if you can say. Iceland could have had a lot more of a share in this, and it's an enormous opportunity for Iceland to participate in this work. People going to Working Group meetings and stuff. In the North, however, banks have been involved in serious money frauds. They are being dealt with by the authorities with great intensity. The director of Danke Bank was put in custody, etc. A 13% of the bank's profits came from little Iceland over money from Russia. Our story is of interest, of course, because we establish the office of a special prosecutor. Thanks to Eva Joly, who came here, and I remember calling her the golden goose when she arrived in Castlight, for she put political pressure on the fact that there would be real money in the jury, so that office became powerful. But there has been no assessment of how it went. There's no way we can do it. I don't think it's such a corrupt system or anything like that. White collar crime is a very serious offense and it's important to deal with it at speed, I don't talk about when it's a major community firm like the case I mentioned earlier. It's a matter of principle to finish that case, it's so fucked up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u71	President. This is exactly the key, that there are, of course, very clear and clear rules and meets all the standards we set so that it is easy to identify how transposition between countries is under the same rule, etc. That you can't hide in one way here and in another, and there's no law broken, even if it's actually broken, that you're just worried about enforcing the law because, like a boy, you're just worried about enforcing it. A senator mentioned here regarding a special prosecutor after the collapse, that office was extremely well promoted, that it was undermined by an office before the investigation of the major cases runs out. It must be a really weird time. We find that these are issues that have been tolerated for many years, but no flag has been in Iceland. We needed that flag from Africa. It's impossible to ask, especially when a special prosecutor asks for additional financial privileges - because if he's going to be able to handle this case well, he can only care for others with more money, and then he doesn't get it either for some assistance and unity, and it's gonna be lost a little bit in all the cash that can really be taken care of, in a proper way, especially by whitefish. So you ask yourself, " Is this a technical problem we're dealing with here, or is this a permanence problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Is this technical, or is this a permanent problem? I believe it is a ongoing problem that police authorities and prosecutors are not sufficiently financial. Knowledge needs to be built up, the right to take steps must be built. They're drowning in it, and they're really shoveling the canal. So it needs to be financed more and higher than any other budget in the sheep market. It was established by the defendants of Fég, and it also needs to promote the demonstrations of society's loved ones, the prosecutors, who make decisions on certain matters. We can also see this in sexual crime, economic crime, that there is a need to be increased. But with this particular issue, it's an international partnership that Iceland's been having a bad time. That's it. That's it. We were on the list of noncooperative states for several years, so we have not been doing our part in the international cooperation. This is an important and important international cooperation for little Iceland. We're getting a lot of knowledge in there. I can take an example; the concept of money was created in 1991 or 1992 when the first money-student order arrives in the country. And when I had a lecture campaign up from 2006 with a tofolklow up-in-the-moment, the follow-up, they didn't know what money was. Money scum? It's none of our business. And then there were natural banks, they were international banks. It's like the water, money's looking everywhere. Money laundering, particularly fines, may at times be a low level that does not matter. Therefore, antitus fines and other such things have come to be a shock. It's just amazing that the law had been changed about the profit money in a telecommunications company. This is the coming generation of fines, so the system has to be able to handle these matters, investigate and accuse them, and then the fines have to bite too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u73	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for this change of law. There is a great lack of good wording of this law, and I'm glad we're legalizing these changes. Also, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that I couldn't get to a bank and ask for an answer before I got to the top. Minister completed his case earlier. It's possibly a better place there. But okay, I'll just stick with this. However, I am wondering why this bill is involved now, but not during the last term, with the order of the staff being directed to the Ministry of Justice. It is a relatively simple bill with regard to essential issues, as we have seen today. Similarly, I am wondering if this incident in Namibia led to the direction of this task force to the Ministry of Justice on the need for legal adjustments involving a foreign bribe. President. The report also shows that the work force has expressed concern that the Icelandic government has not yet completed a study of one criminal case involving payoffs to foreign public employees. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: How many still unquestioned cases? What causes this delay? And why is there more powder to study stolen phones than to study bribes to foreign government employees? Is this really the priority we want to imitate?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u74	A respectable president. We'll discuss something very important here. It's in fulfillment of Iceland's international commitments, how we deal with a payoff on a global level. There's a lot in this case, a respectable president. The bottom line here is a recommendation made to the Icelandic government in 2010, a dignified president. Of the 17 recommendations, two requirements have been met since 2010. Since then, it has been 12 years. It's been three terms, on a normal year trip, like they've been more. Here are very important aspects of this recommendation, that's absolutely true, of course, there should be above all doubt that the bribe of employees in public companies is without question punished. Of course, it is of utmost importance, and it is also important to update the border as shown in this recommendation. But there are other things I scratch my head over, e.g. that in all these 12 years, no action has been taken to respond to this recommendation. Part of this is really a reaction to ensure that European Developmental Support is not abused, e.g. to bribe foreign employees. This report shows that this is one of the proposals, that they should be educated with those who are involved in the development aid to inform them of the evidence that there is a payoff and their announcement to public parties in Iceland regarding such a violation. This was a recommendation to Iceland in 2010. How good it would have been to have been if this had been fulfilled before the Samherja case, where we know, we have a lot of data to show that Icelandic development aid was actually used to exploit Namiba. These are one of those proposals that were not fulfilled 12 years ago. Much of this is about educational struggles, informing public employees, instructing accountants, to instruct all who may be able to cause them in the fight against these offenses, of whom to look, of the announcement and of the practice around such a fraction, of a simple educational duty. There, a respectable president, is all the offer unpublished, the 2010 recommendation. There has been no special educational campaign to deal with such offenses ever since we were told that there was a real lack of instruction about announcements, signs of bribes, and other such things, nothing. This is all unpublished, and it does not show that some work is going on for the next 2022 report, a year, 12 years later. Of course, it is remarkable in itself, a respectable president, that we have just not put anything into it to ensure that even those who are to be monitored for such offenses - they have not been informed of that role, have not even received any instruction. Of course, it is a wonderfully lost, respectable president, and it raises big questions about how ambitious we are in this regard. It's just like with money bullshit, why did we end up on a gray list of FAFFs. That was because there was exactly no work and no money left to watch Iceland's money bullshit. In fact, it was strongly claimed that money laundering would not be done in Iceland because there had been no announcements. But we weren't paying attention, so how could we have found an example if we weren't paying attention? The exact same thing is true of a foreign bribe violation where we have even documented an example, three documented cases that have come on board until nothing has been done to the local authorities. It's in this report. There's been three reports of a bribe violation, and the authorities haven't even responded, they haven't opened an investigation, they haven't done anything about it. Of course, this is, in nature, rather a strange, respectable president, so although it's a joy to be taken away from any doubt that paying public employees is just as forbidden as bribing stewards, let's say, in other countries, this is not quite enough. There is a lack of understanding in the system here on the importance of having well-trained police, well-trained authorities who can take care of this surveillance. V.E.G. A minister earlier spoke to me that it was not possible to take police officers who have just left school and put them in an economic ward or to put them in compliance with such laws. No, but that would have been possible ten years ago. Then maybe we'd be in a better place right now, or 12 years ago, then these instructions appeared. I wondered about these 12 years where the power of these matters has been, if it hasn't been quite uninterrupted, with perhaps a very short exception, with a class of the highest. Minister of Justice. It is the same category that set up when he took over 2013 and cut down the funds for special prosecutors about hundreds of millions, as soon as he took over. Thus, our diagnostic abilities, our ability to cope with economic pressures, became more severe. So to think about it -- to have seen this recommendation, which we were given 12 years ago, a recommendation we were receiving over and over again, from the FAFF without anything to react until we were wronged on the gray list, which often happens, I can tell you, let alone the country like Iceland - whether it is a targeted policy to ensure that there is no control of money theft, with the foreign bribes, with the gross economic crimes we know that the underworld, the Justice Ministers are so eager to talk about when they speak about premeditive authorities and the electrical gun and the police, whatever they have to do. This economic breakdown rarely occurs by the people the police have to use their guns against, according to some sources. This economic breakdown is caused by those who have power and power in Icelandic society and by access to national accounts, lawyers and tax advisers to assist them in this act. Allways since 2013 has not been satisfied with the damage the main office to investigate economic crime in Iceland or its successors or its postmortem institutions. All the actions that the government said they were going to take after the Samaritan case, where are they? Where's the top line? What happened was to the institutions responsible for research in the Samaritan case were given some 200 million, I think, to share between them, something like that, for monotonous costs, if I recall correctly, who, of course, of course, were able to raise financial deficiency, is nothing, a respectable president, and makes it impossible to react in an appropriate way. So while this is certainly taking a step, changing the law in accordance with a recommendation, it is not being done the most important thing, which is to ensure that we have the character, the ability to analyze, and the knowledge of the system in order to first detect such a fraction, be aware of where to look, and only bring them forward at the appointed time. I call it a time when the government will have a pace in these matters, and if the government really wants to believe that she cares about dealing with matters like these, don't want to look away, obviously it's going to have to do much better, and obviously it's going to have to be fulfilled all 17 references, not just two or twelve years later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u75	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of Justice for suing this matter. Of course, I support it in all the basics and thoughts behind it, but I still want to start my case by pointing out that there's something adventurously wrong with the idea that at the same time and at the highest. The Minister of Justice suggests this change in law, which is to be trusted in the case of bribe violations, that the assistant of this same Ministry of Justice on a radio interview undermines the media that has revealed a large case of bribes that has been published and shaken into the community for a long time by charging the media about his sources in one of the causes of the matter. This is actually something that we need to discuss together with the subject under consideration, for it is absolutely accurate that happened at the beginning of the year. paritaprevir The village of Þorbjörg Sigríður, the Gunnlaugsdóttir of Gunndar, and, in fact, others, have said that it is not enough to sit down and strengthen laws by law. All available resources must be strengthened to enforce these same legal measures. There is no added responsibility for those taking care of these matters without considering, at the same time, that the resources to handle matters, examine them, bring them to courts and courts, and so forth, do not ignore them. Of course, it's gonna have to hang out. I agree with what's been said here when people are talking about police, prosecution, courts, competitive surveillance, even U.S. government agents, and others who are public guards of the authority, we can say, even if in some case, this is part of the power as well. This is a key step when we discuss these matters. Therefore, I make it a subject that at the same time as we are discussing this here, the assistant should be the top assistant. Ministers are asked in the way he did on a radio show yesterday. I think it's absolutely the last note, simply because while we're talking about strengthening these resources and strengthening efforts and strength to deal with fractures, it's absolutely below all caves that their efforts, as often or at least, are undermined. very often informs about such a fraction. That's exactly what happened earlier. Gunnlaugsdóttir This is why we often hear about them first in the media, and that's why I would like to mention these two things together, i.e. On the one hand, how men talk about the media, how they undermine their efforts to inform them of what is often in silence, and how they thrive in the shadows, for after their heads dance their limbs. It's just that kind of thing. Because we're talking about a bribe, the biggest thing we know from our community talk in the last few years is, of course, this alleged violation of Samherja's executives about bribing senior officials. And let us be absolutely careful that this matter is still being investigated, and all of us do not grow to the grave in it. But at least it was the burden of the news media that people are waiting to see the outcome, and I think everyone can make sure that this search at least Not too good when the media were talking about it. So the events in it somehow occur that there are events in a world that no one knows about. It's the media that informs us about it. The response of those who are being investigated and examined by the media and, of course, from the government's point of view, is to attack the mass media in a most outrageous way, so shamefully that many ministers, often questioned, rather than having done so in the first place, under the total moral depravity of the company involved here and we all know well, and I'm talking about in this context. Then, when we're in that place, at the same time as we're discussing this now, the media have a legal position for the defendant - and let's just give it space for humans to have all sorts of opinions about whether it's right or not. There are only different opinions about that. But at least That we will not take advantage of the opportunity, whether it be Ministers, assistant ministers, or other forms of power, to spread it out over all well - beings with media officials who do their jobs just as they do with each other when it comes to these matters when all people know and know and have to acknowledge fairly when discussing these matters, of course, the rightness and protection of the media are very different from what is indicated when these issues are being discussed. This I would very much like to keep in mind here when we're talking about the matter that lies before us, as I said before, that it is not enough to change the law, the thinking of those who enforce the law, the rulers must speak in this way, both of police, judges, districts, and media, that there is a real bite in putting the law here at the General Assembly. We're in this situation when we're talking about a payoff break that we go straight to what we see on TV and movies where the edge of the money bill changes hands or fat transfers go between accounts or something like that. But it's interesting to consider this in history because for a long time there was a well - known term in Iceland called a subsidian. It was a slightly broad concept in discussion, but part of what we called subsidiary politics was nothing more than what could be applied under public understanding of people, regardless of law definitions, on what are bribes, i.e. When men take advantage of their power to set matters straight, to oppose some great support. There is no need for financial support; there may be other forms of support. People in positions of authority need to be careful. Fortunately, we are speaking about this in a different way now than we did some decades ago, but I think it's important to keep this context in mind that when we are talking about these things in general, we are not always talking about the biggest issues. There's a lot of things up there that need to be accessed and handled. Then I would like to thank you very much. Minister to make a recommendation for this case. I hope our words here are about the need for follow-up, both when it comes to an investigation, when it comes to the police, when it comes to courts, when it comes to prosecution, can be thrown into the equation as well in the larger context of competitive control, finance surveillance, as I mentioned earlier, that these two things will not be separated, i.e., the law and the will of Alchemiis, and the real equipment and the tools of the people who handle it. Then again and again, the media have a vital role, and it is not good to speak at the same time that we are discussing this here at the council for those who are responsible, whether it is Ministers or assistants, how they have done about the media and undermine their power and will to reveal matters that are exactly under this discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u76	President. This is an important issue, although it is not large enough here, as has been said, the need for changes in general penalties to respond to the Workgroup of the Economic and Development Agency's proposals for a bribe in international commerce is necessary. But I wanted to discuss this in the context that I have worked in other fields, i.e. For quality control. Quality control is an enormously important part of the overall context of rules we have on a number of things, such as a bribe. The quality watch is often a matter of secondary importance. It is necessary to make the laws and the rules, and it is necessary to have at least one of the most obvious tasks and major challenges; dears and so on. But underneath there is always an attempt not to comply with rules because of some kind of chance of profit or something similar if the rules are ignored. This should know through the years, that in all countries, certain rules are set, in effect, about how we want to conduct the competitive arrangement. If some break those rules and get away with them, they get some kind of head start on others. Even those who are expected to follow this check up and avoid an abnormal head start over others have one way to get a certain favor done. Hence, it is extremely important that the site be inaccessible and that such activities are highly emphasised. I think it smells like it, for example. in this report that follows this bill, in the words, as if it were not completed - or so says, by permission of the president: The work force is concerned that the Icelandic government has not yet completed one criminal investigation to pay bribes to foreign public employees. It's a sentence that hits you in that you ask yourself in quality control mode: Well, is it because there's no such thing? If not, why not? Is there any such matter then? If so, why? Is it not normal if this is to be technical correction of these rules and laws, to explain in some way that we in the legislature understand the context of these technical defects, those being corrected? At any rate, the report does not explain very clearly, but the report does in some way, but perhaps even less in this Icelandic environment, all the way through the reading I got. At all the work here, you often don't get the depth, you reach the surface, and it takes time to go deeper and get the connection so you can figure out that there are certain issues that are not obvious that are being referred to and reached the overall context. However, it is where quality control operates the main work, making sure that all the gears of the system are coordinated. And when someone fails to beat in any way, it should attract the attention of those who take care of the quality of the law against their purpose. Because that's one of the things to do with all the rules, such as When I was working on quality surveillance in the video game, it's just a program that's being carried out, all those who play the game play by this program. Various devices and tools can be used to try to cheat them in one way or another. One of the things they always try to watch is, "How is it possible to cheat the system? ' Knowing where our weaknesses lie, for there are often times when laws and rules cannot be set completely about everything, not precisely everything. But knowing at least where the weaknesses are so as to be able to observe them is a key to preventing someone from trying to exploit their weaknesses. It may be the main comment I have entered the Committee's work, to paint a picture of payoffs in Iceland, where it is said that not all was completed. What is the underlying process? How do we maintain our integrity to the purpose of the laws and regulations? Because people can be absolutely 100% sure that there's always someone who's trying to interpret out of the law, technically follows the law, but use it in a way that may not be quite the way it was supposed to be done, or actually just break it, of course. It just happens. Human nature is a bit much, so there are always some who try to make more money if they think they can get away with it, even if they don't even think they can get away with it but only while they can get away with it, and then they don't care. It's inevitable. If we didn't have people like that, we'd have very little need of law and order. It is remarkable that, in fact, all of this work is being done in order to counteract those who are constantly trying to cheat others. A lot of fuss to stop him from doing that. On the contrary, many people say that we should just skip all the rules. But we also know that we started there, but nothing worked out. Then it was just the biggest and strongest, etc. ... andthentherewasan administration of terror, that was monarchy, and so on. We've been there. It didn't work. That does not mean, however, that the present system is the best. We're always trying to find a way to make things better, but we know that we're not going to a community where we don't leave all rules and have a self - control market or something like it. It just doesn't work. It doesn't work. So, considering that, we need to watch the system we're trying to put together works in a way that we think is fair for everyone, that everyone's playing the same game. I would like to include it in the work of the Committee and ask these questions: What's the country like in this? Why haven't you finished one single case on the matter of payoffs? How is exposés generally seen in Iceland? I called for corrupt stories here a few years ago, just anonymously, in part, because I reasoned that even people didn't understand what corruption was, they had some strange image, even some movie image of what corruption really is. Because other things like cousinry are corruption in the official context, but if Jón leaves a town in a private company and hires his brother or his uncle or something like that, nobody cares, he can do what he wants with his own company. But as soon as it is out into the public public balance, it has become corruption, doing what is even normal within the individual enterprise. So I simply asked, just open: Do people have any stories about corruption? Just to get people's ideas about what they think is corruption, and even some sort of reality thing to publish and show people what corruption was so that they might learn if they saw that - well, we have several examples of it in Versailles, as with the purchase of alcohol boxes, etc. There was a similar example in one of my responses. But one answer I received was: I paid a patrolman 50,000 bucks. Every year to leave my company alone. Just as a boarder could have it, just an example of how direct money is placed in the pocket of a public employee to skip a check, which makes them quite much of the position of that party to everyone else. We know the social network over and over. It hasn't been fixed yet. You don't have to burn yourself on it again and again in business with the same person who goes away from uncrowded debts, just because he has a social security number and has some other name now behind the company, but is really the same person that you burned yourself last time. The law on the real owners meets this, definitely. However, the translucency is lacking, the bioavailability is lacking, e.g. increasing access to shareholder file and need to be updated more frequently and faster. It's been fixed in a sense by free access to an enterprise file, that's a big step that was taken here when Pirata's bill was approved. Then Piratars had access to shareholders and annual billing. The secretary brought a change in the annual bill so that it would be granted free access to it. It also contains information on shareholders. But there is exactly no foundation there, that the shareholder file is open and accessible, and updated regularly, so that once they are made changes, they are automatically updated by a database on which and where to go. Nothing unusual about being available to all people. So there are a lot of things in this environment that we have to fix, especially with regard to transparency and really just some teaching about corruption. In our youth, we learn nothing too much about violence, which makes us use it even ourselves, or we fail to realize it when we face the threat of violence. In exactly the same way, it is sometimes extremely human to just get a friend a job or something like that. But when it is done in certain situations, it is corruption, not in other cases. That we know the difference between them is something that is absolutely necessary and that we need to do better in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u77	Mr. President. Mum, they don't happen in Iceland. Or what? Moneybag, that's not gonna happen in Iceland. Or what? Icelanders would never bribe or baloney money or own secret national bills. Or what? A respectable president. If the independence party's actions are taken into consideration, we are led to believe that this will not happen in Iceland. Buying someone may vary according to definition. I worked for an international company once where giving something more than a pen to a government official that a gift was defined as a bribe. Asking the person out to dinner was defined as a bribe. Giving the person something a little bigger than the pen, perhaps some small market stuff we had, was defined as a bribe. This is what we had to do. You see, they judge bribes in Iceland. It has not been judged for bribes against foreign government, but it has been judged for bribes and taking bribes in Iceland. Despite the fact that these offenses are happening here, however, the Independence Party is trying to make those who are to investigate or be held accountable for these matters difficult for life. Songs like the bill being served here today are not put out until late and at last and then only because Iceland had come on a bad list and the government was starting to kick in the ass to do something in this lonely movie we can't take part in an international environment. The budget is cut down to the Rapporteurs and investigators. It's nice to talk about the need to train people but then put no money into them. The media, which are usually those dealing publicly with these matters, are not afraid to talk about them, are persecuted, even by members of the Independence Party. So we need to ask ourselves, " Why? ' Why are we led to believe that nothing is happening? Why is nothing done to make it better? Why isn't there a budget for this? Why are the media persecuted? We must ask ourselves, " Is there any place where unclean flour is in the sack corner? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-21-38.u78	A respectable president. I would particularly like to thank you for the talks that have been discussed on this important subject, and especially from this issue. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir and that was an excellent tip from the Eyjólfur of the Yearman's Ármannsson and Sigmar Guðmundsson. What came even. It was said to view these institutions as infrastructure, and I can agree that these are structures that need trust and need to be strengthened. The above statements have been promoted by the Minister and certain members of the House of Congress to undermine the ability of surveillance agencies, to engage in friendly attention, to pay, and to subsidian work and to bury themselves, and to be not worth the answer. Mothers, economic offenses, and even terrorism, as was said here by a single verbal vendetta, are, of course, part of organized violations, and are organized to play the major role in all such crimes. The organized fracture operation has taken root in Iceland, and not enough of it, it is growing into fish around the spine. The thrill of this disaster cannot be different from that of strengthening the institutions involved. Those who have studied police reports on organized crime see what appears there first in these institutions, which all agree to support and trust, despite the alleged subversive activities of the Independence Party, some of whom try to maintain here by illogical coverts. This will be done by training people. This will be done by training people and increasing the number of people. But we need to be sure what we're getting for what we're doing and whether we can make the system more efficient. What stands out, and what people who spoke the most about the need to strengthen and then expand the institutions, are more comprehensive sources of research in early phases, preventive research, preventive surveillance. This is a fundamental step in coping with these challenges. I reviewed in my speech earlier how the Icelandic police office is, in fact, unarmed when information is received from our neighboring police departments about operations or individuals with whom there is reason to observe. The law won't allow it. This is a key and I'm failing, representing the Independence Party at the General Assembly, the Minister of Justice for the Council of the Parliament and the members of the Independence Party. This is what we are responding to by providing bills to support these authority, to strengthen this operation. In budgets for this year, in their payment last year, a billion were added to financial contributions and funding to support these institutions, led by the Independence Party, up to 1,000 million. Then, there are some other angles, completely illogical innuendos. We're on this road, and our course is clear. We're going to respond to this visitor, who is in Icelandic society, and who is attracted to organized violations, attracts bribes, and so on, the police reaction to defend themselves and protect the citizens, the police reaction to investigate cases, the prosecutors to sue the case and the courts to judge. We were on that journey, and I did well in my talk earlier today. It has been asked: Why is this case now? This is the subject that has been prepared. We know what the Senate was like last year. I'm sure it would have happened last year if there had been an opportunity. So it is partly due to the circumstances in 2020 of the International Assembly. How many cases there are coverage or investigation, I don't have the number for it, okay? paritaprevir Sadly, Linya Runn Rún Karim, but this information can be obtained. From the material talks presented here, I take with me the encouragement to do better, taking the encouragement to examine these matters further. As I've told you, there are other issues involved along the way. The General and I expect to have a good cooperation with it and also because once we have seen how our view of how we can adapt a procedure, provide additional efficiency in the use of the money we have available - which is considerable and has grown dramatically in recent years, regardless of how others say they have grown a lot of donations to law enforcement, research, prosecutors, to all these factors have increased in recent years, and we are continuing on this journey. In view of the discussion, I expect an understanding that we will have to do better in that regard. But when I propose a proposal for the council, which, in fact, will appear in a financial programme in the coming spring and then in the next year, I'd like to have it in very short order and to map out what money is going on and what the taxpayers are getting for the extra donations necessary for these lawsuits.
