ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u1	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm on top of it. A financial minister clearly knows what this is all about because I was just going to ask questions about situations that I think are rather extraordinary today that are still not mentioned at all. It's heading for 7% inflation. We're seeing Europe's largest manpower since the second world war. The countries are preparing to receive a record number of refugees, energy prices, massive pressure on raw lips is in the pipes. It says there's nothing to agree with because there's really no situation. This is totally at odds with what we see in the vast majority of welfare countries around us, and actually it's under the law on public finance that it should be taken into account by conducting measures in advance or at least enough time to avoid creating too much pressure later. So I'm worried that this is going to be a problem with their official financial proposals because we're going to agree to a higher budget in the fall. I'll have to ask that question to the highest level. Secretary of finance whatever inflation it is that moves on it. When has the situation become bad enough to intervene? Is it 10%? What does it take for the raw markets on energy prices and then in general in this man-spray mask we're in for it to be advanced enough to create a state for additional budgets?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u2	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are here by hand with a bill submitted in February of the month, and it is very early in the year so that at that point we do not have enough resources to get through the year. We have a very big public reserve and other reserves to resort to, and then we always have the possibility here at the end of the year, in the fall, to bring money supplies, if necessary. In terms of inflation, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that if we take the housing out of inflation, we're looking at about 4% of the inflation, so for all of those who do not test the influence of indexing facilities, the daily change in consumer products will be measured by 4%. There are no spontaneous announcements that occur there, and especially when considering how strong the situation of the households is in the historical setting according to a new biographical study. If we are concerned about the effects of inflation on the survival of government funds or on the status of individual funds, it is now a bit of a challenge to be able to cope with it. I'd say the income side would lift something, and at the same time there'll be more pressure on the pay button. We can assume that there will be some high prices, but we still have not seen any reason to ask for additional resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u3	A respectable president. Thank you for this explanation. It may be a misunderstanding on my part, but I thought it was so in official financial law that it could not be accepted just to form a large pack of measures or actions without having legal documents approved for it at the council. The reserves and the space we have available are like this. if there are any clumps and other items on expenses, remuneration, inflation, and so on. I may be mistaken that a large project can be run through here without accepting financial contributions in advance. With regard to the housing team, there are only a very large number of homes in the country that have a financial loan and that they feel very much of these mortgage prices every month on the insurance policy. It's eating up their own money, so I can't agree with this. But I wanted to ask that question to the very end. The secretary of finance whether he can confirm that some work, formal work, is in progress preparing a response, or is it waiting until later this summer? Will we wait until Christmastime for some matter to come that may be approved nine months later, as in Covid when waiting for months to agree with a plan? Or are the shelf products, procedures, already present in the Ministry, which can be run off the deck as soon as this golden inflation button falls into the house?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u4	A respectable president. Of course, it's just a matter of time before. A senator bites, and it bites, with the slightest exchange to make ends meet at the end of the month, where we have been especially looking at our eyes. I published yesterday on the financial Ministry website wondering how in different ways in which the inflation occurred in Icelandic households compared with Europe. We've been making plans for more specific procedures than for the general population. The requirement to go to the general reserve is very similar to that of budgetary funds, i.e. Appreciative documents are closely related to the general reserve. However, we have wanted to have more transparency and less advising which way to go, so we have specific actions to offer to the council a budget bill. I'm not going to rule out that it's going to be evaluated to prove that it's needed later in the year. In other respects, I think that the group that has reason to worry about the most is really the first apartment buyers. The wall for them is always rising, but the financial burden of the others in the market is not to increase in any proportion to that of the discussion, i.e. The pay rate of the household does not grow so fast that it has become an independent and serious concern. At a meeting I was sitting around the other day, e.g. it was reported that the last time one of the banks asked a two - mortgage loan, it was a failure. [[The president calls.]] It's historical to the absolute minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u5	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to the example set here. I remember being expected to expel the state's funds at nearly 170 billion dollars in December. Do it now. That is a challenging time ahead for the Kingdom and the public. We know the reality of inflation and growth and the highest reality. The secretary of finance has spoke publicly about the need to be careful with official finance and planning until the next year. Was it wise to increase the number of schemes, so that the case of Catherine the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir has become the largest power in the history of more than a decade? That was a good example on the part of the highest. Secretary of finance in the present - day situation? Is this evidence of a responsible government?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u6	A respectable president. It is a well - founded debate to ask: How large is the Council of Control? How many shall the Ministers be? It was our preeminents' conclusion by our government covenant that we could achieve the best balance in our priorities by increasing the number of counsellors by one. We also felt that after working together for a few years, many of us were more than one elected period in the Board of Directors, that it was time to jump only the cards, that certain walls might be seen and thought things over again. I have to say, at this point, I haven't seen anything to show that we've been wrong, rather the other, that there was a certain level of freshness and that it came a little, yes, let's say fresh breath with a swelling. However, it has taken time, and it is right. A senator says, it also cost money. That's 4,400,6500 million. K. each year, as we have presented this in budgets on the rights of about 1,000 billion. In connection with it, I'd like to get close to it, so if the operating system doesn't work from above, I think there's a great chance there's a lot going on in the founded system and in other parts of the public business. We are often very busy with what is happening close to us when it is added to a helper in the Board of Directors or a new employee is hired, but we do not pay attention to some individual organisations under the plot, often a number of employees, who are far beyond what is in the individual plots and where no one is asking if it was up to five or ten. As a matter of fact, I've found that if you don't have a choice and raise your expenses, there's something wrong. And it's been my main comment on the budget here at the council, that it's always set the same standard for whether the government is getting results; i.e. whether your expenses are growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u7	President. V.E.G. A financial minister wrote that this was the result of a balanced view. I think it was about balance and power proportions, and that's why we're looking at the largest government in Iceland. I asked about an example, and I just don't find the answer because it costs 2 billion. There was no compelling need, and this requires money. But I would also like to mention that after the crash, there was a particular criticism. One of the findings in the administrations was that the Ministry was too weak because of their smallness and that they began to unite. So this is contrary to professional advice after the collapse on how to strengthen the administrations and strengthen the Ministry. But I'd like to hear some argument, chief. The secretary of finance to the example of the secretary of finance is here speaking about responsible state management in the course of 2 billion dollars. For expenses without any apparent need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u8	A respectable president. Well, I think history will only be judged in that subject, how it works; how it achieves to achieve government emphasis, how the Ministers will be, how the government will succeed in its policy. In fact, that is the only right standard for this question. I used to say I'm still full of faith that we're doing the right thing, and I think it's important that the government works from above. I'll bet on it when it rains. A senator reminds us that the Ministry must be well designed and powerful units. Actually, I believe that e.g. The old Ministry of Health has been everything, way too big, and we've done just right by reassigning it to the Ministry of Health and Health. I have seen that at any given time, a health minister has had more than enough to do without worrying about everything that is on the hands of a social minister. But I don't want to argue that we have invented the ultimate solution to how the Board of Management is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u9	A respectable president. I'm just temporarily here, and I'm not going to be eating this brochure, but none of this is surprising. Sure, it's all very technical. These are funding, and we were expecting the ministers to increase and ministers to cost money, so this is not something that should surprise the members of the council. Nevertheless, I represent the Flocks of the people who care about minorities; senior citizens, children's families, and poor people; and then I always start by looking up family affairs and, of course, it's just the same budget. Then I'll think of this big project we're about to face, we're hosting 200 to 300 children and possibly 2,000 refugees, and I'm asking myself: " Isn't there any reason why we're on this island simply to support our communities? How should our communities live up to all the things we want to do well and not act at all? Well, we need to find space in schools, theater schools, chairs, tables, hobbies and sports and everything, because we want these children to get into Icelandic society as soon as possible. Some may be short here, hopefully it'll be over very soon, but others are here to stay and suddenly it's short of funding. Would it not have been necessary to consider this in this context now and make some adjustments in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u10	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator may assume that this will result in considerable cost of war and the arrival of refugees. In fact, it seems to me that even if we were missing what has been going on since the war, a large number of refugees who have requested international protection in Iceland were over what was hoped for or expected in the past year and have been significantly changed during the first weeks and months. There, the cost is enormous. Despite this, however, we do not have reason to worry that we cannot finance the ministry that this calls for. We have some resources and, depending on the events later in the year, we can obtain additional financial resources if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u11	A respectable president. It's the highest. A minister, then, to say that there is a treasure? Are you willing to make money for the project like this somewhere? I don't think anyone was expecting this, but if it is, it's good. Nevertheless, I'd like to say a little bit more about this extra Minister's chair, and now I'm just talking about the capital groups here. We at The Gang of the People are thinking about the less fortunate ones. Could it not have been possible to find another way but to add one more chair? It doesn't cost much in the big context, but it still costs its price, and it could have done something for that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u12	President wants less of it. A senator should not step in the public address until a presentation is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u13	A respectable president. Yeah, it's about a number of the Ministers, that's a good question. How many of them are supposed to be. In fact, I enjoy that conversation, and I think maybe we should do it more often to consider a number of elected agents. I have, for example. Often, it was in favor of discussing whether we might be too many here at the council. That too can be thought of. I am convinced that there are many ways in which savings can be achieved in the management system without a careful reduction in one minister, even if we could, and I have been talking about it here today, have been more effective in managing public funds by having a well-ordered government with a minister in each department that has a clear commission and clear idea of where he wants to go. This would eventually save us much for a new minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u14	A respectable president. It's called technical contributions. There is no legal rights. It's only changing the budget. This increase is a little vivid to the approach of the government these days. It's about to sit back and move divisions, decide to go into the hell with the operating system over a few weeks. These are 10% of state activities, 120 billion, which are being transferred over a few weeks and lying so amazingly in spite of the fact that there was no diagnosis behind this. In fact, I've requested information from the Ministry of Presidency on what was behind these transfers, whether it was only a musical debate between the government groups during this few weeks or the huge policy development result after the last term, but it is heard very little from those matters that really burn on the people of these days. In fact, it was mentioned by the highest. Secretary of finance that this increase has only been provided in February, but I can see as much as it was on March 12 that this increase was put forward. All right. But there is no Senate case on the Government Constitution that has to do with the situation today. It's just that there aren't many weeks left to file a case if it's due to enter the council now. Then comes a summer vacation, and then the fall comes, the collective agreements come, so it's made here as if there's enough time to go, but it's just not. Also, there was no answer to whether any kind of work was involved. They seem to be putting their heads in the sand. It was said here the other day that there was no need to consider operations for the homes, and this was the highest. Secretary of the budget to mention here, too. It is also said in these funds - interested in what is the highest. According to a minister, there is a possibility that in the months following, there is not much time left to consider. There's no other amount of money to be offered. We are actually getting confirmation that the government is not going to do anything for the homes of the country despite a life crisis and that our neighbors introduce each pack after another, as we saw two years ago. Actually, it's what happened here at the beginning of Covid, where it was waiting until the situation became so bad that it had to intervene, and as a result, it becomes much more expensive. This is not in the spirit of the law on public financial matters, which seek the most practical means of government management and the financial secretary who constantly talks about permanence. It's simply an expensive way to run a state, a respectable president. Consider, too, one thing about the current economic situation because this was a witness from a large reserve. It was now such that last year's extraflation was more than 1%, i.e. Inflation was 4.4% instead of 3.2%, and the additional cost of inflation was nearly 9 billion. last year. That's exactly what we agreed on at the council for Christmas at 9 billion dollars. Because inflation was a failure. Now the inflation has gone far beyond the figures mentioned in the financial bill and the approved financial laws. Only last February, before this situation in Europe, predicted the latening bat 5.3% of inflation, which is 2% higher inflation than is predicted for the current budget. It was before this situation so that these reserves could easily be lost because of this situation. Money cannot be used more than once. I'll mention it specifically because it's the highest. A minister testified that it was possible to look into this fund if there were unexpected matters in the council next week because of the crisis of life or humanitarian assistance. There will simply be no countermoves introduced, and I would really love to hear it. We see Sweden stepping up two weeks ago and presenting 8 billion years ago. - Thank you. I read a controversial press release from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that was referring to energy costs, that domestic energy costs are now relatively lower than those in Sweden, but the only figure that matters when people are actually talking about the standard of living in Iceland is power. In this case we've been wondering, we in the United States, the power to buy among those who have little between their hands, young people, is just an inflation factor enough to measure what is going on in the community. We're measuring the highest inflation in this area. There's nothing to be taking out a team after a good time. These are factors that weigh deeply in the books of many who are in a delicate position today. I simply wondered who the strategium is. Is it really waiting and seeing again, until the prices have leaked all over, the school full of young people and vulnerable groups? I also wondered, " Am I individuals at the Ministry of finance and the highest? ' The secretary of finance is not concerned that pay requirements will increase and leak into prices and is not interested in participating in active economic management and trying to improve the ideal of vulnerable groups in advance, intervene. It is irresponsible not to intervene now. This will only translate financial contributions later in the fall, which will be even bigger with more resources and this will in no way speed up the financial policy that we agreed on a few weeks ago because the current financial policy in this terms is so narrow that there is hardly an increase in in in in inflation unless the government's plan is to react to a crisis of life in this country with increased maintenance as many areas as possible. I'd also like to introduce myself to what I saw in the Board of Directors or the Ministry of finance yesterday as to how things work for the homes. It suggests that general action is not desirable because it will result in in inflation, thereby raising the cost of living in a young person's home. Here, there's always something to talk about. No one here has been talking for general action. What is naturally special in this government community, it is that here is contrary to proposals that have a profound impact on inflation in the country without making a comment in this maintenance management. Last night we were talking about the resources of the special property approved in this government, and it's been revealed, as suspected, that they have primarily reached the country's newest income. This has leaked into the housing market, pushed it up, pressured housing inflation, and thus the inflation of young people. This is a huge general solution that we are still dealing with. There is no mention of its effect on inflation in the land. This has only been requested for specific measures for sensitive groups, specific measures, spoken of by the largest international institutions in the world as wise to attack today because we know that the Council must respond with increased maintenance measures and that it will do so. It's simply unbelievable to see it. I can't believe it's happening the second time in two years, people trying to pull their feet with it. I just don't understand why it's so hard. This is both wrong and extremely bad economy. We will simply agree with higher budgets because the government simply does not trust to take the lead in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u15	Madam President. It is true here, as shown in this list, that this may not be adding up on expenses but may have been planning things down. It's like a home that doesn't decide to renew what's gone wrong, carpets, and other things. Rather, it's decided to simply place the furniture over the major problems and keep driving. We are accepting this now a few weeks or months after the government was introduced. It took a long time to form that government, but she could not answer the question of how much this would cost when it was formed. The first figures were hundreds of millions, and they are now 200 million. We can fully discuss how intelligent it was to increase the number of demands and divide them and do what is being done. V.E.G. Minister says it may have been creating more efficient administration and more balance, and I think it's true what this happened to others. A senator may have been centered on the balance of power within the government rather than on other matters. But knowing that it is the highest would make it interesting. A minister says that there are good planning and even more ways to save, and I agree completely with that. It's not the end of the shot that it is possible to do so, and I'm not going to rule out that in some cases this film will be drawn up. But I'm not convinced of it. I have doubts about various divisions. I have doubts about that, e.g. Now, when we are living in a world that is ever more changing and changing, and at a higher pace where people need to be studying really from cradle to grave, it is wise to divide into five different fields of education. Let us, though, do so, and we may well find that out. But it would be interesting to know if the highest. So a minister will have some sort of assessment of whether things were going like anointed ones or if there were any shortcomings so that he could at least ask the next government or this one to come back if it is not. Then there was something of the highest magnitude. A minister said that I find quite remarkable. He said: "Well, I mean, if it turns out that you need more money, you can always put in other budgets in the fall. I'd like to stop for a moment at that thought. Of course, it is now that ministers and governments are represented by the council, and it is the council who actually decides the budget. Then you must ask yourself, if the government sees anything in the maps, if there's something about a horizon that is different from what was expected: Does the government have a moral obligation to at least show a moral obligation? is the minimum time to flaunt it and prepare the council for possible future action during the year? I think of this relationship that sometimes it is said that the Icelanders give direction after they turn, they give a witness about the nation's historic interest. Drivers were saying what they had done, not necessarily saying where they were headed. It reminds us of the government's work, and this budget and seminars actually fosters a tendency to believe that this is a similar matter, mainly the government's historic interest, what it has done, but it has no least interest or is too near to see that there are ships on the horizon that are not used to sail there and that we may need to fail. In Iceland, funds are usually being asked for money for what has been done even if not in this case. But what will inevitably happen is not addressed and must be done, and this discussion here today must primarily be reversed, although there is ample reason to discuss how intelligent it was to increase the number of stewards. We know there can always be unexpected things. That's why we have extra funds, so we may find that we respond and do nothing about it. That's what we did at the beginning of Covid, even though we've been waiting a little late for our first action. But in this case, we have two things that are completely set up. It is the economic outlooks and the economic conditions that exist as a result of a two - year struggle in Covid, which has added inequities, which has made sensitive groups more difficult for them and is likely to continue, and however a very disturbing trend in Europe, to be taken into account. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir did well over what may be on the weight of us Icelanders right now, who, of course, are home, and those groups that have fallen behind or will be facing problems, which may have been in trouble and will be in trouble for the government's economic actions one year ago, when the government's highest level of distress. A minister here said that we were living in a new interest level and took steps accordingly. It is, therefore, not just that the government has to deal with, but, of course, she owes them certain answers. Hv. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir did it very well, and I didn't intend to add anything there, and I thought it was very convincing. However, I would like to discuss the latter part of the conversation, which is the war in Europe. Of course, it will appear in many ways, even in the economic situation, with higher prices, in various ways that will bite the homes of the country, but we are also dealing with human crisis. We're dealing with the biggest refugee problem in Europe since the second world war, and it's so high that I don't think people in general see it yet. It has been shown in the State Department's words and memos that we struggle with as many as 800 people looking here, paying attention, looking here, probably on our own, and we are well prepared to respond. That certainly is good because we need to do so. The Ministers here have talked about us opening the arm. Consider how our next neighboring nation is responding to the exact same problem regarding the war in Ukraine. Let me give you three. First of all, the Norwegians are developing a budget and called for financial resources from the council for a marvelous defense structure. Some of this is not appropriate because it involves arms and transport of troops and things that we are blessedly free of here in Iceland because we are members of the border of the Atlantic Community, which is one number, 200 million on the Internet security. It is so convenient for Norway to talk about him because the same numbers can be used there. They are 15 times more than we are, and their dollar is worth 15 times more than ours, so it is the same number. We Icelanders are at the top when it comes to the social network and network and a large part of the digital environment. However, we are already in 67th, where our safety is concerned, and there may now be some bridges, the highest. Minister. 200 million are probably not picked up from the minister's wallet without making any other arrangements, and I ask if the current situation is calling, for example. There is no need for extra protection spending when it comes to Internet security and its activities. Second, Norway's government is also calling for financial resources to deal with the predictable problems many companies face because of the war, direct and indirect effects of war. I haven't heard of it here. So third, and maybe the most important, and I reiterate what I said before that the State Department of State has said it figures that up to 800 people are coming here--how are the Norwegian thinking this? Yes, there's a very different picture, and the plan, and the financing, and the equipment. They expect 35,000 people to go to Norway. That's 2,300 people here, i.e. three, four times the number we're going to lose, okay, but they're going to have to prepare for the arrival of 100,000 people in Norway. This would be done in Iceland by 6,500 refugees. But these are just the arrangements they are making because of those who might approach them. Then they are also entering the problems that are developing in a much more purposeful way, financing it, than we are doing. They are e.g. to pick up 2,500 people from Moldova, a poor country, who now have about 15% of their population refugees. This means we're going out to get 166 refugees. They're going to go and get in and help patients who can't normally stay inside and have a break-up and bomb hospitals, 550 patients to Norway, so they can get help there. They expect these people to follow so many others; other people, they may be children, marriage mates, and so on, 2,750. There's a 160s and 170 people if we're doing numbers in Iceland. Therefore, I must ask in earnest: Does the government believe that the situation in progress will not cost us beyond what we have already planned for financial gain? And would it not be wise, and if it were not for respect for the council, to try to count them and estimate them, even if that means changing them again in the fall? It would be an effort to look at the horizon and see if there's anything going on there, so I don't talk about the obvious problems happening here in the country for homes and a lot of people. Sadly, though we may be able to cope with growth, oil prices, and food increases, many people simply cannot. It is the mental attitude expressed in these words. It's supposed that yes, yes, it's quite right for these expenses to come, all right, we just go to the dance and cities, and then it's just after the weekend we fix it up. Perhaps we should wonder before going to the bar: " How much do we have in our pocket?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought it was a approach. A senator's fun about Iceland's historic interest in government policy. There is this complete lack of vision of future policy planning. Here, the policy is shaped by what some things wind forward, even after. We are talking about today's contributions due to the change the government decided to make absolutely unassigned, without any sort of analysis or assessment of the consequences, whether it would be a wise decision, and less so on how much it would cost. What I'm thinking about then is that now we're discussing a bill for a budget, where it's a natural thing to discuss some adjustment of the budgets that have already been approved because of what has happened. Like what? paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir pointed out earlier, when many of the things we know not only today, but which we also knew about a month ago, and they are growing in numbers that will lead to the failure of these financial programs and budgets. In general, there is little left to this assembly and much to be expected. What I wanted to hear was what I wanted to hear. Einarsson In view of the risk factors we have already seen, the factors that will affect this and the fact that we will likely not react to it before this council ends. What will be the result?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u17	Madam President. I think in general that regardless of the urgency of this discussion, if we looked further into the past, it is always obvious that it is reasonable to do so. I don't know if this raise is so unprepared. I don't know how many dozen cases of trinkets in the government thought and how many weeks it took, would likely have been possible to keep on the side some individuals who drew up and put the money in place at the same time. But it is this arrogance that is displayed in bringing it all the time. And now it only appeared to us that either they are not going to do anything, despite all the clouds that are rising up in the sky, and that is, of course, a worse alternative, at least. for the people and homes in the country, or they're just going to attack them when they think of them and spend the money that comes into their mind, and then they're going to go for money. At least that's not true. A way of making a note at the council and saying, "Hey, you're just our humble slaves, and you just take care of what we're going to do. Both are things that need somehow the story. But I really hope that it will be the second and we're being tipped off, because the worst would be if the government wasn't going to do anything to meet the state of our homes and nothing to meet the problems facing millions in our neighboring state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. When budgets are approved here, there is a way to address the necessary changes and unforeseeable and unforeseeable expenses. If I get this straight, it's just space with the changes that have already occurred since those laws were accepted. We don't have any room anymore. It also gives us reason to look into the budget under the direction of this government, the promises made by it. They were not in harmony with that, much less when the scope for responding is gone too. What you're wondering is two things, like what you're thinking. There are two things that one can do: The pursuit of the money is one thing. Then you wonder where to pick them up. There's no record of that. It is not clear how the government will finance either the budget that would have already been financed or the scope that is obvious to us that we will be facing. The other thing is that it may be, which is that things will simply not be financed. You may wonder, " Is there a lack of food or over food on our part that there is no policy, not preparation, and so forth? ' A senator pointed out. Maybe it's just conscious. Perhaps this is the policy, this starving policy against the most important aspects of society, which, of course, are the welfare of the nation, the health system, the education system, and other factors that make it good to live here, and that it is possible to live here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u19	Madam President. I'm sure to hope that it will be more expensive then. Of course, we have to keep in mind that before elections, the government groups would talk about their financial strategy and if things didn't develop in the best way, there would be about 100 billion who would have to hang out and cut down. Let us hope that the necessary action to take will not be taken against someone who needs service. I'll have no tolerance for the fact that there's been a lot of money and that the budgets haven't exactly worked out the way it was supposed because there have been natural events here that were completely unpredictable and certainly not the supreme. Secretary of finance to teach, such as. Covid. And here we see another event more predictable, yet we hoped in the longest law that it would not happen, which is a war in Europe. This does not change the role of the minister of finance and the government is to examine the guards and the alerts and change the course accordingly. If the captain's about to sail in and watch a map, and there's no cut on the map, but he sees it ahead, a good captain directs it by the shield and doesn't believe in the map. That's what this is about. V.E.G. The government must simply look to the future with more vision and not always wait for the problems to come to its head and continue to solve them the next day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u20	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Logi A good speech for Einarsson and for taking up here a matter of great importance in this context of funding, which is exactly the reception of refugees, and that we are expecting an ever - increasing number of refugees to come to this country, and that will, of course, require additional expenses and the need to respond. I wondered about the attitude of not doing so until after a while, if it also does not create this idea of a lack inside the system, and makes it a point to see if the cost will be paid afterwards or not, then, that there is not enough money to do this well so that this will not be done well. We've seen evidence of this in the news where citizens are attending refugees, where there's still no room for washing for refugees from Ukraine, where it has been difficult to reach the staff of the U.S. Then you wonder: " Does this kind of work mean that I am not only ready to improve the ability of the system to receive refugees, including the motivation to do so and to do so out of a less handsome way? Because there is this uncertainty, this lack of experience, the lack of money, which lies inside the system, and makes it even harder to experience the ability to handle this task.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u21	Madam President. Yes, in terms of the object of fleeing, I think it's obvious that there's two things going on. On the one hand, there is a total lack of realism or ambition because we are planning to get three times as few people as the most careful of Norwegian predictions and 12 times as much as they expect to have to deal with. We have some things to think about in this relationship, and it's not just government funds. It's also about the communities. First, they are in a very different position and undoubtedly need help because they are not well supported by agreements with the State on various services. On the other hand, I understand that after two months here, these people will be helped by the local community. The financial support that I have most clearly differs, depending on the local community. Somehow we need to balance this, and we should actually use this big challenge that is waiting for us now to sit down with our communities and ask: How are we going to do this, how are we going to make money? The kingdom, according to the nature of the object, must have only a very large responsibility when it comes to financing it. I don't understand how you can even put it here on a discussion or this piece of paper or something, and I'm asking, and maybe it makes no sense: why, at least... Not a chapter in a paper where there is a possible position that could arise in the other and these matters? There's plenty to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u22	A respectable president. Yes, there is plenty to take. Like what? A senator enters the country's financial support is not different, but it is generally very low. It is generally a very low amount of living that people who are involved in rural society receive, and they are aware of a decision in this government to direct refugees from Ukraine this way, not to give them the same opportunities as people who get international protection in Iceland, which they certainly have the right to get compared to the state of the world in Ukraine, but instead of another way that gives the Foreign Institute a warrant to simply place their application for a fugitive's status aside for up to three years. That's what they're doing with activation 44. They are, in effect, preventing people from coming to the rights they have by law. That's what's being done. If they could get the right and get the position of a fugitive, which can be put in quick treatment, we've seen, for example. for those applications from Venezuela, you can just speed them up properly through the system, that's no problem -- instead, they're going to put everyone on the same booth, which is that they're going to get a Human Relations that don't exactly have permission to do business. So even though they could and wanted them to work, they can't work for themselves and are compelled to go on the move of a community that, as I came on, is rather low, but they also become a heavy burden, like a sledge. A senator came on, in the local economy, if nothing has to be done. So it is self-important, or not, depending on the way the government book is viewed, to go that way. There could be a much more humanable way, a way that would be more relevant to rights that people from Ukraine have. But that path is not chosen, and I wonder why. My experience has been that it is in an attempt to force an unpleasant foreign bill to the highest degree. Minister of Justice through the council using a crisis in Ukraine. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to see if it's okay. A senator would not agree that this will not happen on our watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u23	Madam President. It's getting worse. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir makes such a shadowy picture of the government's stairway that I almost agree and hardly dare to make them mine, unless, of course, of course, that it has been discussed for one month and the government has brought no answers to these criticisms so that, of course, one could be tempted to believe that they were somehow trying to use the trip as it would be. It's creepy, and so political, I'm now fond of two of the three members of the government that I don't really want to believe that it's going to work. But let's see. But, of course, you're right about what you're doing. A senator's financial support is very low, and of course, none of us will be able to make progress and will not be suitable for us. I would have believed that this is exactly the right time, though it certainly has to work fast, in order to get a better understanding of these matters here in Iceland, because most societies in this country are going to have to take on responsibility and will be happy to do so. There have been three societies in this contract. Now their numbers will increase, and it will have to be fixed up and replaced by the communities that have already been on their watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u24	A respectable president. When discussing this bill for financial support, only the contributions needed to take place after the decision of a new government contract to increase the budget and bring up an assignment in order for this new Ministry to have some work done on its own. In accordance with the laws on public finances, the bill shall contain financial reports of government funds to address the causes of suffering and litigation and dissemination at the Ministry. This bill is therefore put forth only to respond to this law, and no other physical adjustments are seen. But when this move is considered, it is a cost transfer of up to 120 billion. As it has been mentioned today, this is 10% of the budget, which is largely a two-part scheme, a new university, industrial and innovation agency, 85 billion, and then it's creating such a small network of culture and trades that produce 28 billion. In the past approved funds had been agreed on, such as that housing and organizational matters would be brought to the Office of the Resident, the only government that had been seriously and on some prior notice, so it was clear to everyone that such a change would occur and was well prepared when it is considered how to prepare other agencies. But then there are some assignments that had been given, and they are moved back. A respectable president. I find it interesting to look at the scope of the scheme for all these changes, especially in terms of the size of this Ministry and the amount of money it can afford. The Ministry of Presidency is left alone, with over 5.1 billion currents. Now we see this major Ministry of Education and Culture... turn into something called the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs. This Ministry has over 137 billion, but after these changes, it goes down to 49 billion. State Department is holding on to over 24 billion. The Department of Professional Road and Development, now known as Food Ministry, with the sector's sector of industry, was cut down from over 57 billion to 33. The Ministry of Justice takes 2 billion cuts and is now 53.7 billion. The Department of Social Affairs, now the Department of Social Services, is reduced by 15 billion and has over 275 billion. The Ministry of Health, 318 billion, and the Ministry of Economics and Economics, is holding their 82 billion. The old Department of Transport and Department of Transport has disappeared, and this will be the head office I've mentioned earlier as a result of the transfer of tasks to this new Ministry, increased by 15 billion and has over 93.8 billion. The Environment and Resource Ministry, which received additional attachment to the climate Ministry, is increasing by 2.8 billion, and this is expected to be just due to action on climate, and now has a range of 28.6 billion. It was expected that we would see a bill that would handle these contributions because it is in accordance with official financial laws. It is noteworthy, though, that there is no response to the challenges facing the common people today because of extreme inflation, rising prices for food, increased rent, rising fuel prices, and increased interest costs, as well as significant rent payments. A newly developed Congress file makes at least one U.S. I don't think there's any government issue coming in to deal with that situation. A respectable president. This increase, though called that, is not really an increase in money in the sense of being added, but only by means of money is it being rocked. Although we see no increase in this bill, the costs due to these changes are yet to be seen. A lot of work has been done. These changes have been spent by employees' precious hours. There is a high cost in recruiting workers. There is an increase in housing costs and other things that we have not provided and that we have not provided. Despite the fact that something has been expected in a budget bill under some team called specific arrangements, that will not be enough. We will be able to see the large check resulting from these changes, the check that would have been appropriate for another, something more, something better, and something more remarkable. A respectable president. What many of us feel is missing today, instead of playing with money back and forth, are basically supportive measures for the people in the country. It is constantly said that the recovery of the households is good, and the pay sheet has increased by 7%. But you ask, "What does that mean when the pay sheet goes up by 7% to 7% inflation? " There is a considerable number of people under this average remuneration that will then be exposed to the cost of gradification. It needs to take on increasing fuel prices. It's called a low interest level compared to when I was buying my first apartment. But now it has been spoken of for months and even years that it would be good for people to take disloyal loans because they had come to such a state of stability. It would be most useful for people to take an unscrupulous loan, to take over the credit of property, and to make money out of it. But it is only that in the past year or two, the people who took security loans during a very low interest rate are now experiencing significant shock. It is an example that lends the financial burden of some 30,000,400,000 dollars. In a month and in order to pay that amount, you will need 50,000 60,000. A little extra to pay it back. People don't take that kind of money off the street. In addition to that, we've got everything going on. The increases in groceries are huge between months, and we're paying 300 bucks. ... fora flamboyant. It just doesn't make any sense. The financial and economic minister has mentioned that he is ready to examine changes in fuel spells. I would have liked to see it happen in this raise, that it was being proposed for some sort of action that would serve the homes. There's a suggestion now. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers have mentioned that only the electric truck should be added, about 5,000 cars. That's what I think is 5 billion according to the information I feel I have received. Is it proper to take advantage of that money now? It is not better to help with housing support or such to relieve those who are not about to buy 5, 6, 7 million. K. cars at this point? I ask: Is setting priorities properly when this procedure is done, spending less than 2 billion in making chairs for Ministers, putting money between schemes, and at the same time, people are in serious trouble? As mentioned above, it is not important for members of Congress who have more than one million per month or more in wages or ministers who receive 2 million whether the diet goes up a little or a little more, but it is important for people who may have a striped tax rate of 350,000,360 k. It bites really hard. The minister mentioned that there might be another raise, and hopefully he will come. We've seen Sweden is about to start and change shapes of fuel, but we don't see any such actions here. They're waiting with it all. Just like when we knew in November, December, that everything was going to hell because of the crown virus, but nothing was done. The job life was hung, the restaurant grounds hung, people shut down, and people lost their jobs. It was a vision, and we could have put it in the budget, but nothing was done. They're always responding later. I don't think it's that good, seeing it like this. It does not inspire hope and hope in the hearts of people who need a helping hand at this point. We wish to see any action other than this soon that will take place, so I don't talk about the things that will follow these blessed people who are fleeing their homes and going part of the world between us and need our support. We are in a position to provide that support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u25	Madam President. There are so many things that could be handled for financial gains, for all the main guardians of this year's budget are smiling. For example, it needs to be done. To be highly effective sources for increased services to refugees from Ukraine, at least If the management part is serious there, if we really are going to open our arms and do these things well. But instead, we're sitting here discussing how to handle the expenses between recruitment costs. This is a debate that the government's been having problems with, it's delayed a certain matter of Congress, and so on, it's been observed in committees. I might just want to ask you what. A senator who gave such a fine talk here on priorities on the watch of this government and on the importance of defending vulnerable groups: What do you think? A senator's priorities are reflected in our having a financial bill of this kind here today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. Of course, we can see that this newly formed Constitution shows that there is nothing new in it. Actually, it's gone out as if we thought it was something special, and maybe we were expecting a short one, that's gone from the Constitution. This may be because people have been so busy moving contracts, creating new departments, that there's nothing. It's not like you're making bills when you're wondering how to run that tape. I just think that the group that was struggling to build bills that day were very busy in everything else. Of course, I think it's a strange priority. A two - decade - long - long job in the labor movement is special to see that rent support is reduced, child - welfare is reduced, and it's a priority I don't want to see, and I don't want to do it. So I can't figure it out, watching this government teaching itself in part to at least to the left course or to socialism, that these are its suggestions. Where's Socialism proposals left in this? I don't see them. I'd like to see a new priorities in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u27	Madam President. Four homes in Iceland found it difficult to make ends meet in 2021. The financial burden of housing expenses was heavy in less than 19% of homes. This is shown in preliminary results from the National Institute of Living Research. If we just look at the homes where one adult has children, one or more, then half of them allowed it to be difficult to make ends meet last year. It was before the inflation hit the ground. I want to ask you why. A senator who has the exact experience of the labor movement and addressed these matters in his earlier talk: Is this not a sign that we need to strengthen our transfer system? We need to put our concerns ahead of our own. For these groups, don't 6.2% of inflation just call inflation, or is it, a financial bill or a bill to follow such counter measures? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u28	A respectable president. The labor movement has spoken over the years for the lack of acquiescation and piety, the change in the proportion, the payment from the transfer systems, the pay development rate, and the price of the person's pay development, and the child's compensation, to the level of prices that the state would not always take more and more. We can also see, because this is often a talk about the status of the poor and the elderly citizens who are already employed in the back and out of business, that these groups will be badly affected at the moment of the event. They find it hard to obtain a couple of thousand dollars change in expenses, people in a position to worry about each month, and they find it hard to get through the month. Of course, that is the serious situation that we need to look to and change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I wanted to reflect on the exchange of funds after this move, this dolling, which is a little discussed here. According to one estimate, the Ministry of finance is left behind with its 83 billion. I'd like to argue that the Ministry of finance is actually up to 1,200 billion, which are just the budget of the country, because it seems pretty clear that it is the Ministry of finance that controls all the major measures in this country. I'm just thinking about it in the context of what's wrong. A senator feels about this position, and if he really understands that these are not 800 billion, but 1,200 billion because the actions here are not in line to form the wishes of the Future Party, which are talking about raising the price of hunting, whale taxes, talking about driving banks to help with their homes. There is now no such thing in the Senate and the Supreme Court. The minister of finance who has his 1,200 billion in this crisis is irreversibly denying it. This is hardly the case with VG's policies, socialism. Here we hear an expression that measures for vulnerable groups are not to be taken because of the expanding effect. Yet, we have seen this government take action that encourages funding to people who are commercial. There was an extension of the reimbursement of the construction work, which was especially done to the construction industry, although this would be a stimulus. There's been decisions about all kinds of action that seem to be equal in this government. I wanted to wonder. A senator's opinion of where the real cause of this government community is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her answer. I'm not a judge of whether the Almighty is at the top. Financial and economic ministers, but it may lead to the chances that nothing will happen until the Ministry of finance or financial Affairs has given green light. Like what? In the past few weeks, there has been a talk made by a senator about the possibilities for revenue that could bring benefits to the Icelandic community, but none of which will be realized. Of course, it would have been possible to write into this extra funds we are dealing with here a new income that could then be taken care of. But it's just not done. You think it's special. I just want to mention, too, that the smaller part has provided a number of suggestions. I'd like to mention, for example. A group of people who have already offered a number of suggestions to support these painful groups and since then have the memory of a certain body of Congress proposals that are just put in a drawer and it can't get through. The smaller part has gone up substantially, but we do not see that it is taken into consideration. So, I guess the Ministry of Financial Affairs and Ministers has quite some resources in the way of budgeting. But I will hope that some ministers will have the strength to stand for and work on the affairs they are interested in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wanted to point to this context of all this discussion of a financial growth that has taken place during the period of this government. It was now a financial committee to agree with Christmas to continue blundering between public markets and senior citizens and disability. There are individuals who received a 4.6% increase in their wages, in reality, individuals who do not have a strike-out rights. It's as if a financial minister is not able to read these delicate groups we're talking about. But I wanted to change my course and to think about this position, this doller, in connection with the Ministry. In fact, no analysis of these measures has been performed. There's 120 billion who move from there. Now we've got a what? A senator of considerable experience in rural work. Is this a work to make people in rural governments allowing themselves to take steps, or change to 10% of their operation in a few weeks without presenting it to anyone or going to some kind of diagnostic or policy job? Is this a practice that is widely practiced by him?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to start by going to that thing for a while. A senator mentioned the lowest salary and compensation. In the labor movement, there has been an increase in the lowest salary, and this has often been an increase over the pay number, the increase in the minimum salary over the pay number. But improvements are then made to include a pay number based on anything other than an increase in the lowest wage, which includes the sparking that will always be greater and greater. No increase in the lowest remuneration is being observed in collective agreements. In the United States, employment development is generally being based on the increase in the lowest salary and also the increase in the highest pay. They often do not increase as a function of the lowest remuneration is achieved. $25,000. active at 300,000 k. But a million, so that the percentage is not the same. [[The president calls.]] Of course, regarding local organizational matters, these are often changes, often small rural areas with limited resources, so it is often presented in a financial contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is about to happen, I feel, how it's changed now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u33	The President reminds the senators to respect their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u34	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. Senator, I'd like to talk about the project. Now it was so that for a long time we didn't know if it was a government, so the government was announced, in November if I recall correctly, with some titles we weren't quite sure of how we were going to have. It wasn't quite certain where the projects should be going, either, so when it was realized where the projects should be, it was submitted, and now, a few months later, it's been going to some excel gymnasium that is moving the money back and forth. This is being done a long time after the changes took place and as a result. In fact, a senator pointed out them to be nothing more than to change numbers. Would it not have been possible or would it not have been better to do so along with the changes? It's not that complicated, there are a lot of accounting keys being covered here, you would have thought that as soon as it was known that some particular thing like innovation should go over that it would be easy to move it between them. What do you think? A senator who took it from November until March to let us know what was actually to be spent in what department? Is it just ordinary?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. That government had plenty of time when it was created. From the time of the election to the creation of a new government, it was a wonderful time. You could have imagined that they would then have this foundation unless it had just been added to the final records, I don't know anything about it, but perhaps by means of the means that it was possible to create this government partnership by increasing the chairs and bringing all those who had to be placed at their booths. During the last term, we were aware that there was something positive there, that would be moving certain items to one place that would have to be there, so that there would be shorter channels. We understood it, and we saw it so experienced in this government contract, it became reality, and I just thought it was nice. But I don't understand creating some cultural and business agency of 28 billion. Business items could have been for financial ministers themselves. You may suspect that this setting was made to increase chairs and put people in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u36	Madam President. Yes, there are things that happen when they are doing this afterwards. I must assume in the bill that there had ever been a media service under the Food Ministry. It's a good question, how did it end, but I guess I've had some explanation for that. But we're talking about how we seem to be really slow here at the council and in the government. It took five months to bring a real switch between schemers. Many have talked about changes. It has been said that there is going to be more opportunities to buy electric cars, that is, tsunamis from refugees, housing issues, the tackle, the inflation. I wonder if we'll be in making financial contributions for that in five months or ten. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator as to how much longer we are in the process of dealing with what is happening around us when it comes to financial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I mentioned it when we were discussing budgets for New Year's, and when you didn't see the place in financial terms that there were some labour market resorts around, that it wouldn't happen so steep, because at the end of the day, there was no basis for us to throw it all out. In that respect - I don't fully understand the point. I think we, in my section, are quite ready to discuss additional expenses, as we see it coming in handy. That is why I would have liked it only if we had a discussion about what we were going to do, such as the refugee reception, inflation, rising fuel prices, and food prices, so we would be having a conversation about these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u38	Madam President. Of course, the issue we are discussing here today shows us black on the white matter of the size of the Board of Directors and the extent of the transfer between recruitment practices. No one should try to doubt it or have any doubts about it, that, of course, nothing can be calculated with a single account of how all of this is going to work out, not only with regard to professional factors, but also with regard to the services being done and then with the financial interests of the State Fund, for, of course, no one will go on this journey, we hope, in a way that is different from the goal of promoting service to people and taking better care of the money and making the community more reasonable and efficient, if we have to say it that way. But I wanted this talk to come on two lines: It is one of the points that many members of the Parliament have discussed in this context, i.e. the growth and inflation, and I'm gonna come in on it later. But first, I'd like to remember, because we're talking about this transition, how all of this was being accomplished. It's very good for us to go through that discussion again, I think, who went out here in the Senate hall for nothing so long ago. You see, this government and its government had plenty of time to prepare how they wanted to divide the Council of Governments. However, it became clear when the whole case was being passed here, when, of course, a council began to work after the task was completed and all the rest of the way, or the next time, that was involved in speaking in the Northwestern standard, which was a shelter that the government used to take a long time on this, that there was no particularly a problem when men were preparing all of this together. Then, in particular, I would like to mention that it was very clear during the conference's therapy that the level of professionality within the Board of Directors and the expertise that exists within the Board of Directors was not used until some time after cloth and disk. Somehow, all of this was just raised on a servene and then sold to us the idea that this was done to reflect the focus and policy of the government in the relatively new age. We do know, however, that the truth is that it was, of course, the most important thing to do and these exercises all to deal with election ends and changes in power ratios within the government. I think it's a little strange after I've listened to the highest. Secretary of finance here in the recent debates on government efficiency and good management, that it was simply not possible to react to the election and change the power ratios within the government by simply reducing counsellors. That could have been done. There would have been no need for us to be the way to multiply them. Of course, all of this has cost billions of dollars, in a direct way, and is present here in the season of election, just as the political, fiscal cost of dividing it up. Of course, then, it is all the expense that would result from anxiety that was won over the progress of the matter. The word broken service was e.g. a great deal of use; that when such an opportunity exists between counseling, it could easily happen that there would be some type of break in service that would result in both worse service and the long - term cost of the State would be even greater than he had been with the rest of the government. That was now one of the things that were often mentioned. Of course, this too can be taken into account as long as the staff of the Council held for years, for long none of them knew the workplace or any future advance should be made at work, although it may have been clear mostly as the weeks went by. But I'd like to keep this up, because there are so many examples in the countries around us that when you start doing this kind of work, I feel that, in my opinion, a great deal of professional work is at hand. It is natural to evaluate, not just every practitioner's practitioner's practitioner's practitional costs, but also some sort of evaluation of how some change and move can have a long - term effect, just on the lawsuits themselves, expenses, and all of that. But none of this was done. This was just a meeting of three men. And now I'm not gonna drag feathers over it that no matter who these three people were. If there had been three other individuals, the result would have always been uncertain. I felt that it was very important to keep this in order to be so clear in the process that the level of professional knowledge, as well as the evaluation of the financial consequences of change, the sowing of human beings, the value of those in the plots, was nothing new as would have been. I think it's very important to keep it up now that we're going through this. Of course, all of us listened as we did. For example, a minister of finance was saying in reply. Then there was a little debate over the growth and inflation, as we understand, and I must agree with the words of the government's insolence against the situation that truly exists. I thought it was the highest. A financial minister skimmed a little bit over certain things that are vital to keep in mind when discussing these matters. I was shocked, and I'm still hoping that I've been misheard in the past. A minister made a case so that he had received some information from a bank that it was only a matter of ignorance after all these huge growths and the dramatic rise in in in inflation, as if it were a measure. For one thing, of course, we must maintain that we are in a growing process that is not yet completed. We're going to raise more here. I think that's what everybody agrees to be. The result of the growth that has already been divided into tens of thousands for many homes, especially the homes that listened to the mesmerizing of the campaign that we are here in some special low - interest environment, and it would be a good reason to arrange financial households in such a way that interest would be reduced even for a long time. This was said of politicians and political leaders who lead this government, and this was also said of the bank manager in certain interviews. I feel that there's something you need to know about your responsibility because the consequences we are dealing with today because of interest, and no one should claim that the only measure there is missing is because men spoke very recklessly in the campaign for exactly these things. It is very simple, so growth in Iceland is usually higher and almost always higher than in neighboring countries. It took a pandemic to reduce growth to the number we saw. This period of growth in history lasted for four months, and the recipe for this low growth environment was not drawn up by the government, a pandemic. So it was a reaction to a situation, not a reaction to any action taken. So when it's the highest. The financial minister adjusts matters in the way he did before, so we must all call for details as to whether this is really the view of the homes that are taking on tens of thousands of increases. And we need not just talk about the growths that are going on indiscriminately borrowing. People who make up their loans during this short, short - growing season will be released from that refuge after nothing very long, and interest will probably be considerably higher then, so that if they have done some long - term loans, as humans often do when they buy their most expensive possessions in life, all the conditions are changed. So I didn't think the attitude that was expressed in all of this with the secretary of finance was good enough. Then we are in a position to see that the countries around us have a high inflation, and it's also very high here. Never before, the inflation in the countries around us is increasing in harmony with what is here, since this has usually been, so it has been considerably higher here than in the countries around us. But this alone is a tremendous blow to the country's homes through the mortgages, as we know it, simply because it is of course a major burden on the presupposed loans. There have been calls for some action, both to deal with the inflation and to be able to cope with the growth. It may be true that there can always be a question of when to take such action and what to do with it. But the government has shown very little on the part of the individual households, at least at least. expected; what is being thought if cases continue to develop in a likely way. And then, of course, because the standard in Iceland is in itself an environment of high growth, there is nothing more to be said about growth in a historical context. We've got to compare ourselves with some of Iceland's historical low-lifers, if we're turning around the countries, which we have to compare ourselves with. People choose their standards in this discussion, I think, perhaps, to show the problem of the underlying homes - that's not much of an understanding. It's kind of, I'm not going to use the word of contempt, but people are running a little bit from their responsibility because there's much more to both the work of the government and also the inactivity of other factors when it comes to these matters. Then I would like to mention, too, that there is always evidence of how much inflation is if the housing team wasn't inside the index. Of course, this is an eternal subject, and I'm not going to go deep into that discussion, but I think it's good to know how much inflation is without the housing staff being in there. But that doesn't change the fact that he's in there, and while he's in there, the same cost falls on the people of the country. So I call on it a little bit, and I've done that in the past, people may be a little more familiar with their responsibilities when it comes to the economic situation, and there is good reason to keep it proper with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for a good speech and agrees with him, especially on the records and on the number of people's homes on a record of how they are. I noticed that it appeared yesterday on the Department of Economic Affairs Web administration, which cites a memo that increasing energy prices have had less impact on the economy of homes in Iceland than in many other places, which is, of course, on the basis of one share of oil and energy in expenses here, and particularly on the cost of swallowing, etc. It's in the eye. Things that are naturally completely overlooked in this memo and not mentioned, at least not in the announcement - I hope this isn't all the memo, this announcement, because it's a very poor thing - home prices have gone up in Iceland more than in many other places. It will come, for example. ... in a recent report from Nordregio, a research agency of the Norwegian Ministers Committee, the increase in housing prices in Iceland most of all the countries today in a pandemic. The inflation of this facility is naturally driven by large amounts of housing, as we know. Of course, house - to - house expenses are one of the largest spending companies in most homes, yet they were found at the highest level. The secretary of finance appropriate earlier to take the mortgage out of parentheses, as if the market was the guilty of inflation, the inflation makes the house - to - house inflation easier. What do you think? A senator on a case like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u40	Madam President. This is directly related to what I was referring to in my speech, that people may be aware of a little bit of what their responsibility is and that man - this is such a smell to what sometimes exists, that when the economic situation improves, it is, of course, thanks to the government, but when the economy gets worse, it is something else to blame. I've thought it was a mantra in everything. When we're talking about the interests of the households, of course, everything is important. We can't take one team out of parentheses and keep it out when we're talking about it. Also, I have to say that there has been a bit of a review here in this council hall that people have been using this platform to run into some re-election campaign and talk about who is to blame for large levels of housing prices. There, of course, people are running away from their responsibility and are often blaming the city's city of Reykjavík, even though all data show black in white that the city's structure has been in a way that will not be blamed for its status. So I'll answer the question directly, and I don't appreciate the presentation offered in this context. I'm kind of hoping that no matter how you play it through the development of a housing market, you'll know at least what you're doing. to care for their responsibilities and to avoid minimizing the consequences of rising housing prices, regardless of whether the mortgage is in the index or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank for that answer and agree with what was presented in a case. Senator. Of course, we had an excellent glimpse of it yesterday when an analysis department published a good report on how housing support has developed over the past ten years or so. We were there to see how government housing is actually designed to raise prices. We can see that the growth reform system has been weakened, but instead general support has always taken place, which is more likely to give support to the upper intermediate groups, this special means of saving. This, of course, is a housing support that also promotes the value of real estate, thus increasing the threshold for people who have not entered a real estate market. [[The president calls.]] So it all has something to do with the same well, and of course the responsibility of the government is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u42	A respectable president. There was no direct question in this but more general reflection on these matters. I'm right about what I said before, this game that has been about what's to blame for the high levels of housing, it's a little rough if we just look at it from the perspective of the people who will be before the rise. It takes a lot of time to build a home and make a supply of housing, but interest here dropped into a particular situation and then it's pushed the money price up, but there's nothing to teach just the organization of one community to teach that it has.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u43	A respectable president. I wanted to thank you. A senator for a great speech. I'd like to include only what he mentioned about divorce, and I've also been given an answer, because I also stopped using a few months of old figures of miscalculation in the banking system as a standard of home status. This may be a sign of a certain absence of reality toward people's status, but the last thing people stop paying off is that you will face a serious problem in the future if you find yourself in an error list. In this context, I wonder if. A senator is as concerned as I am because the evaluations of the Ministry of finance and the secretary of finance of the economic situation are this only standard and that of work as well. the memory part has called after, is an analysis and any monitoring of the condition, may not occur because it has not been answered. But there is always a reference to this failure number. So my question turns to concern about this, but I also wanted to ask a general question, What do you think? A senator explaining this insubordination of the government? Why are we so different from all the nations around us? Why do we constantly need to look for excuses for not supporting people who are obviously in trouble? What is the difference between this government? It's really starting to worry me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u44	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's great for this. I'd like to mention by default, because there was a lack of detection and monitoring, that it seems to me that the analysis and the alarm were carried out, if I understood the discussion just earlier today, that the inside of the Ministry of Justice is being picked up by the phone and called one of the bankers and asked what the point point is that day, and then it works. That's exactly right. As I mentioned in my talk, I'm sure we can have different opinions about when it comes to taking action and exactly what action to take. But it's always possible to be in the reaction. The collection, detection, and monitoring can always be done, as is the case. A senator mentioned, so that the reaction, whenever you want to bring it, will be more efficient, and I'm beginning to miss a better view of that game. And why is this? This is because when it comes to economic issues, especially when we are mixing the interest in growth, people tend to get angry and hope that things will work somehow, so they don't have to take much action. Then, of course, the fact that we have a currency that goes up and down may be one of the key premises that humans are always getting into trouble over and over again. They get angry, hope that the situation will improve, and that there will be no need for action. But we know very well that we are in the middle of the storm, and our actions are not over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Actually, I think it's also a certain kind of politics that's being practiced. The decision to support certain groups is very conscious, since all information should really be available. But there is another matter. I just wanted to change my schedule and to start growing halls for advice. Hv. A senator wondered if the schedule should be reduced. But what about merely strengthening the services that have been in trouble over the years and decades in their assignments? I'm calling here to make up the Ministry of Health, Social Services, it's been a long time to improve the benefit of those with low incomes in society because they're always going to have a contingency of the social security system, but it's never gonna happen. Could it have been possible to defend this budget more fully by strengthening the ministry we have and doing what we were doing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u46	Madam President. This was one of the things I was referring to in my speech. I forgot, for example, to say that there was one of the missions up from the collapse and the report of the Allegorical Committee that the Ministry should be lower and stronger. This would come to both improved administration and undoubtedly better management of funds and the better standing of the individuals under the Ministry, the groups that have their own standards. Of course, this was only because political landscapes called for, that men thought, to increase chairs. But it would have been possible to go the other way, reduce the amount of resources, secure the ratios of power within the government in this way, and I'm beginning to agree that it had returned to improved financial management. However, it may also be brought to the attention of the World Congress and to recall that a management committee is calling for a status report when only more time has passed to see how it has been handled with all of this, and then there will be an opportunity to get more involved in the sewing of the money gate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u47	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for a truly interesting speech. I cut a little bit of what the senator talked about in connection with the government's claims for elections on low-growing environments and other things and this optimism that may be expected on the part of those in charge of elections. I agree that we're probably here to see the consequences of a marked reckless talk in the campaign. What I wanted for the senator's insight is, in fact, about these high prices that will be here in this country, which is natural something we've been living with for a long time because of the small economy and other factors. I may have wanted to ask a few questions about the changes in society and loans and other matters about securable loans and irresponsible loans. Today, unscrupulous loans have become quite popular, especially during a house - to - house purchase, and it may be common, as the senator noted, for some time, to accept the interest. Of course, we know that banks cannot keep growing indefinitely. Since banks naturally try to control their risks by limiting their time, they can be expected to be greatly affected by the changes now occurring in the world and to have a profound impact on the economy, people who have made this choice may have a significant impact; this can be a significant surprise to them on the next failures. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to ask what solution. A senator sees this state, since the government does not expect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ardius Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Mr. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Thank you very much for this. Yeah, I talked about reckless talk for elections and I've done it before that my subject, and I'll only argue why it is. We know exactly what the Icelandic economic law is, very well know how the ball rolls here, both when it comes to inflation and growth. We know well that there is no basis for that in Iceland, while we have this currency, to expect that some magic in an economic management will normally or in the long run in our neighboring countries, and so will we forgo the inflation. Of course, when men are leaders in politics, when they lead a government, they need to speak out a little bit from that reality rather than from the wishful thinking that they invented some magic advice to set it off in a way that makes us sit at the same table as the people in neighboring countries when they're buying property, so we call it. Words come with responsibility. Of course, one of the motivations for these great shifts from insurance to cheating loans was the way people talked here during growth, and especially when the interest rates were at the lowest level. The lowest interest in history was forever said. A late bank manager mentioned in an interview that he was hoping that we would be in such a very low - interest environment. I know it's really annoying to many members of the council when you bring this up, but the solution to this problem is, of course, just one and it's got a lot of things going on down in the Senate and in the general discussion. She's taking up another currency here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u49	Madam President. I may not be able to say the answer is what. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson surprised me. But I wondered about the policy of this government and its awareness of economic matters and then how the government's policy is reflected or not reflected in the financial and financial provisions presented in the light of the urgency. A senator may see this as the only solution, and it may not be likely to become reality with this government at the government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees what he sees to it that there will be consequences of this failure, irresponsibility, and lack of solutions in this condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u50	A respectable president. It's all right to talk out of a political reality. You're right. A senator notes that while this government is seated, with its policies, this solution that I and others have been offering is not likely to be a reality in the near future. However, that can be hoped for. Then there is something else I would like to mention in this context. It will be very interesting to watch the evolution of the loans and the insolence of loans now that growth is increasing, to see if people will escape back from the unscrupulous loans on the insured loans. But I'm just saying, when we live in such unstable surroundings, it's much more important how people talk, even if they're about to vote, but maybe when they realize it, and in that way the problem that I'm talking about is, to a large extent, prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u51	Madam President. I decided to come up to the conference board because we've been talking about some of the past few days, and it was especially good for me to do so. A health minister sat and listened and participated in the discussion. This also took place over the last few days, while the members of the board of directors sat in the hall. I just have to say, in this discussion, I miss not seeing and hearing. Secretary of finance after conversation and not hearing at all. Because these are important discussions and we need to participate in them rather than be at some Icelandic champion's World Championship at a quiet time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u52	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support to the 1st. This is an unusual time to discuss financial contributions. In the usual year - to - year trip, they are put forward to the late part of the year to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget that cannot be dealt with with by other measures. In fact, over the last few years, the United States has made a huge budget for the payment of extraordinary times; because of the fall of the WOWir airline, due to government responsibilities on loans to Icelland, due to the pandemic of the Korean virus and the government's economic activities in connection with it. Today, however, the bill is submitted by means of sources of funds that the government considers are needed because of a review of the Council and an increase in counseling. V.E.G. By permission of the president, I refer to a budget with a budget: ▪ [...] to face the challenging community work that lies ahead, in line with the emphasis laid in the constitution before the coming terms. In other words, there is no clear, obvious explanation for the growth. Each of the community projects is and why this particular review supports them has simply not been logical. It was pointed out in the 2022 discussion of the budget that the switch between stewards and ministers was not at that point consistent with what the government had proclaimed and was at the highest level. Well, the secretary of finance here is trying to correct it. The number of ministers and advisers is not a piece of stone. In fact, he has often been changed through history. The Ministry was nine years 2017 and 202019, eight in 2012 and 2012,2016. The number of counselors has increased by one since the last term, and the budget has increased by two. 12 Ministry and 12 Ministers, not a historical number, have numbered 12 before, but never more. Hence, it is the greatest source of advice ever. The development of the past decade, starting in 2012, seems to me to be a sign of the political will of a local government to blow out and expand the regime, and there is a measure of concern. Since adequate support does not follow the changes, it is not surprising that many people have concluded that something else was behind them, but the official explanation of the government, the growth has actually come to equalize the proportions of power between the ruling parties and that they have been able to cooperate on continued cooperation for four more years. Why it matters. Why is it important to have sufficient evidence for growth at the highest level. Minister? Yes, because the change isn't free, so it isn't. In answer to the highest. The secretary of finance, who arrived on January 27, notes that the estimated additional cost of the state's funds beyond what would have been in the unchanged order is more than 1.7 billion. During the election period, which, in part, will move on to the next terms and the second, and out into the infinite, will not be superseded by them. The answer followed that this additional amount of money could be even higher if there is room for uncertainty in the plan and if there is one thing we can be sure about, plans will never ever make up to a cent. We hope that the final outcome is near what was suggested, but the choice of words in reply is the highest. Ministers suspect that there is an absolute minimum, that it is almost certain that the final amount will be higher, even then, so that I use the words of the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, a little higher. How much we don't know at this point. The highest salary cost expected. Ministers and their assistants cover more than 770 million. K. This year. Now I'm well aware that democracy has a cost, but when it's increased, it should be clear that there is a need for that change and that it has a reasonable support. See, government spending has the tendency to grow rather out of control, and as a community, we need to have confidence that national benefit will be accompanied by this expansion. However, the increase in expenses due to increased recruitment has been observed. It has been approved by a greater part at the council, a decision that, in my opinion, is quite far from what would be called responsible, reasonable government. I'd rather see her pulled back, but for that, there's a fairly clear political impossible. As a result, what we are discussing here is the provision of documents between recruitments, and it is also considerable. As we have considered, today's debates, the total budget of legal resources is over 1,000 billion dollars. Some of the advisers are in the overall context just a little or very small after a change. Half the schemes have a range of less than 50 billion. and some of them are well below that goal. I wondered, " Is there no clear opportunity for the integration of challenges and the coordination of problems and how to achieve greater efficiency and an increase in the number of the issues in the management system? ' After the change, the extent of the Environment Ministry and the new Ministry of Culture and Business is about 28 billion for each. The shortness of breath is accompanied by a relative higher cost of management and less scope for influence. The smaller conferences do not automatically pay for metal groups. On the contrary, small advisers can be rather harsh in their speech groups. The case also concerns the conduct of the Council. A detailed meeting area on increase in economic prosperity revealed less production in government institutions with 50 employees or fewer than in federal institutions with more than 50 employees. In addition, small organisations tend to compete for qualified personnel, where there is an increased risk of professional isolation within such institutions and the potential for my people. Here the government is raising small government institutions without clear analysis of the need, apparently. My feelings are that by means of these funding laws, the government will progressively increase its opportunity for unity and maintenance of the management system, e.g. reduction in the use of dexmedicinal products. Increased inefficiency in the governance system and over 1,700 million. K. additional costs during the terms of the election will inevitably be reduced to the opportunities of the State to provide the basic services to be carried out on the laws and other judicial matters, e.g. The people's education and prosperity. It also affects the affairs of the government to reduce foreign debt and, as a result, the growing cost of the state, which is already enormous and assume that it will continue to grow out of this ideal period. It remains that illogical changes in the Council cause enormous costs, in all likelihood, worse use of funds, and now unsupervised transfers. But of what need? Since then, I agree with those who have claimed that the cause is a real difference between the ruling parties. I don't believe, and I don't think anyone will believe that this will be a better way to deal with social projects that no one can tell who really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. It's always nice to have new senators in here with a new vision. I wanted to talk to you about some organized planning. Hv. A senator said that the system was being blown out, and that was a high cost, 1.7 billion, to these changes. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has talked a lot about not always adding more money and more money, but the need to achieve efficiency. Is that not true of the Council of Government itself? What does that count? Senator? Are we just on the wrong track in allowing governments to rule over which departments are? Maybe we should just have some kind of ministry? Let's pick six, eight departments, and just attach it to a constitution or something, so it's hard to change. Then there's no ring. Then the personnel know where it is to work, don't show up one day, and don't know if it's in this department or the next. We may then be able to ensure that the projects are evenly distributed at the Ministry so that we do not have one service service that, as it were. A senator might point out, may only have some 20s and some billions, and something else that has some 200 or 300 billion. We don't have to go down to a little bit of this, or what do we think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u54	A respectable president. About the first question why. paritaprevir On the contrary, I believe the Gísun Ólafsson Ólafur son of Ólaf is a further reason to insist on the continuation of the government's upper administration, because money spent there is not spent elsewhere in the welfare and service of the government. So if there's any place to make sure that you're well maintained, it's in the upper system's upper law. On the other hand, if there is a legal order or even a constitution, I think it is extremely important that every government has the means to control its legal groups and the order of the government by its own direction. But the government needs to realize that this power is responsible, and it is not acceptable that the budget is increasing and the cost is increased only to ensure that the government can maintain its power. That's not normal or good capital use. When the government uses this authority, to hire the conferences of the advisers and their numbers, she needs to be very clear about the reason and reason for it, and as a community, we need to trust that she will not fail with this power because if there had been a vote for a seated government who wanted to continue commission, she was going to increase the cost of being hired, and I'm not sure she got the votes she got from the votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u55	Madam President. You see, it seems that everyone else should be efficient, not necessarily the Ministry itself. But I just wanted to talk to you about this model we have at the Commission, this department, and that's why we have offices that get the various projects. We're moving a lot of projects now back and forth, as you can see. I have sometimes felt that there are too many walls when it comes to specific tasks. Some projects, if we just take the trustees for example, they're first at the Justice Department and then, depending on where the people are in the process, they'll fall over to the Department of Social Affairs. It is often difficult to get two ministers, or two departments, to work together so that this can be a process, for example. Those seeking refuge can walk through in a very easy way. At the same time, we can look at other factors, such as. innovation; innovation in the fishing field, agriculture as a new development in technology and science. New creation is something that we're really trying to drive through, but it all ends up in such small boxes that it's just a focus on something. There is nothing to learn from one another, there is no work together. We face a digital revolution, and there's something we're about to do all over the board but again, just stuck in their box. We have to start thinking outside the box. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn for the counter-sponsor. Hv. A senator doesn't have to tell me that the control system is vast, hovery, and heavy - looking. That is and what he actually describes is the opportunity for us to make it simpler and more efficient. Because it does not just focus on the requirement to reduce costs, even though it is, that I believe that the positive side effect of making these changes is the key to our benefit as a community, that our service becomes more accessible and better for those who need it. As a community, we have a huge responsibility for being here, for example, like what happened. A senator mentions, the reception of refugees, that people who come here for international protection because they are persecuted or at risk of violence or war in their home, do not hit the walls of the system, and the walls that we face when we are trying to set up a business or apply for a school for our children. They're people who are in their weakest place in life, the weakest place in the world. These are the people who need to put their arms around them most firmly. In this context, I'd like to name here and criticize the decision of the highest degree. The Minister of Justice to provide legal services for this group of people from the Red Cross, which makes them no central point where refugees can seek out this necessary service. It is creating a new barrier to this delicate group, which is just a huge concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm not sure that we agree on everything when it comes to the affairs of the state and how we're going to hold on to government expenses and so on. But I wondered if we agree more with the government, since there is a somewhat conflicting message that we receive from it about whether she wants to participate in government spending or not. On the one hand, we hear declarations that there is a need to reduce the state's viewpoint and that there is always a need for intervention, and there is a need to be cut down at all times. It's such a firm rhythm as the highest measure. The minister of finance has tamed in his political speech over his head and in general and has been doing it for a long time. These ideologies appear in the budget of the government only to the extent that is involved in cutting down the rights of the less fortunate, or giving financial resources to things that may not be the most important thing in this society, at all times in my opinion and in my opinion of fellow believers that highlight social and other factors. It is a fine example that the senator mentioned earlier in connection with foreigners, e.g. No attempt has been made to cut down on takeoffs, which are spending millions of dollars on top of billions of dollars on top, in effect, merely trying to find ways to dismiss people from the country instead of helping them. I wanted to ask you what. A senator on this maintenance of expenses, on this proposal, what we're looking at here. Here we can see how these changes have been made in the plots that there is no policy of this government to keep Kingdom spending in terms of less important things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " What is the position? ' There's a senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Dr. Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, for the counter-sponsored effort. That is exactly what it says, when it comes to the financial and financial expenses, the government does not have a sound picture. They say, at least, the highest. Secretary of finance, would like to maintain the terms of the government at the same time as, for example, the. The debt of the state funds, the foreign debt of the state's funds, is greatly increased, and in the long run, with the related interest costs, which can cut down on our space to respond and contribute to and secure our basic services. And this is where we come to what I think it is. A senator and I agree on, which is that the priorities of the government are not in harmony with what it should be. If the goal is to build a economic society, we are simply on the wrong path by e.g. causes the system to blow out and reduce services to those most in need. I take, for example, that there is money to go to this conversation. It does not find money to make psychological services available to everyone, as the General has already agreed in the law and would certainly lead to a longer period of less money when it comes to the financial cost of the state, for example. incidence of disability, as a result of spiritual conditions. People cannot afford to seek psychological services when they need them most. The situation is that 22% of the people claim that they need a psychological service. A third of that group thinks he can't afford it. [[The president calls.]] In a rich welfare community, these figures come out of the map.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, for the vision. I did not succeed in my first talk. A senator mentioned in connection with a government contract party e.g. at the Red Cross in Iceland for the escape service. This is an example of a good deal of agreements that all suggest that there was an economic fund, where there was a high - level service for much less money than it is likely to be the highest-reaching system. A minister has now taken up much of his money, even though it is a treasure. We really don't know how much it's gonna be. What I wanted to do also is that in the interpretation of these budgets, which were actually based on the changed order of recruitment, the importance of this changed order is strongly emphasized that it should lead to more consultation and greater overall perspectives in the scheme in sharp contrast with what has been being done. If you came to them without experience and read it completely, no matter what we know from the former government, which is the same, it sounded very good. It said, for example, by permission of the President: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. If we are familiar with the activities of this government and the former, we know that this was at least not the case during the last term. It was the natural motto of the government: You take care of yours, and I'll take care of mine. [[The president calls.]] What I wanted to ask you. A senator is this attitude that we cannot help but assume that the work of the present government will also be controlled, that each one of his minister, in his own corner. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that this will be helpful in view of the changes we are talking about here and other factors? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u60	You are reminded to respect time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Once again, Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir for a good answer. Regarding what she mentioned in the first part of the anti - State Convention with the Red Cross, it is a perfect example of the wrong priorities of financial contributions. We had a group of experts who had built up a set set set memory and expertise in a very specific field, could provide an enormous amount of service and integrate it with other resources that are needed by people who are looking for international protection, e.g. direct them to psychologists. It could be trusted that there were skilled experts in handling matters that gave people the time and respect that they needed. On the other hand, people now face the fact that they will be placed in some sort of legal aristocrat, where by chance they alone can determine whether to get someone to care for them, to help him, who has the time, or the expertise needed. And it is likely that the cost, based on local experts' time jars, will be considerably higher than the previously paid service on the basis of the contract. What matters even more is that because of this, there is an extra barrier. There is not only one party that people who come here need to consult, or one person that the institutions that care for them, the Foreign Institutes, and the NTSB, need to contact, but a whole group of people. There is an extra barrier that may result in fewer uses of the ministry. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's where the savings are at the highest. Minister of Justice wanted to get out of the pack, and fewer people will use legal assistance. [[The president calls.]] I apologize for my failure to answer the second question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u62	A respectable president. In discussions on this subject, the big picture has been reviewed, and the economics discussed, the homes' position, the increase in recruitment, etc. I'm not going to go back to that song. I'd like to take another party, and he's that I'd have chosen to have been used to correct the obvious problems of current financial law. It seems to me that in the whole of the crisis around the development and transport of projects and increasing recruitment measures, people were not on the alert to ensure that institutions can operate under financial circumstances. I'd like to give you a little example. Since 1939, theology School of Smoking has been in Elfus and has been working on developments in this region throughout the ages, making it possible for a strong gardening community to develop. The school graduates between 20 and 30 students every other year from several courses. In this area of education, it is necessary to have access to educated individuals. Then at school, there is an important development and scientific work that is important for gardening in Iceland and see how this industry can be maintained without the introduction of an education institution like the Gardening School, where all the major experts in the country are assembled. Much of the time, school was an independent institution, and in that environment the school prospered and was strengthened each year. The arrival of garden farmers meant much to them, and they contributed funds, equipment, and knowledge to the building work. Sadly, some 20 years ago, the gardening school was united with Iceland's agricultural university. This was done in spite of the warning signs of the best - known; an attempt, unfortunately, completely failed. Since that time, the status of gardening and scientific work has deteriorated greatly, and school housing is inexhaustible. The next none of the funds have been provided for maintenance, as well as for new projects and development. Despite the lack of financial resources at this time, workers have made the best of the situation and have managed to maintain much good work, but there are limits to how far they can go before the work is working. For some time, the staff has spoken for a change in school organization. The decision has now been made to move the school to the University of the South. Actually, I would have considered going back to normal when the school was formed and made independent again, but I don't think that's what we're talking about right now. As mentioned earlier, the school is scheduled to be held at the Southland High School for the next fall, and then perhaps it will come to the reason why I have come up to discuss this particular matter. As far as I know, the funding of the move is in accordance with current financial laws, about 11 million dollars. That's all it's going to be for the transfer. It is known that school management costs at least 350 million. K. each year and clearly, these 11 million people do little until then. This is merely a drop of the school problem between institutions, i.e. From the University of Agriculture at the University of Innunciation at the Southland High, it cannot be seen with this bill that it is intended to improve the management area of the Gardening School and how much to deal with the accumulated problems of the school. So I don't understand why this bill is not being dealt with, and it is used to correct the obvious problems of valid financial laws, instead of letting the matter hangs ahead of the year and wait for the next funds, whenever they come. In order to work at the quality of the gardening school, adequate funds must be given so that he can fulfill his role. It is really unacceptable to be the head of Southland's High School, and those who are in charge of the Department of Gardening, which may not be able to make decisions because there is not enough money to come to the school. Therefore, I would like to refer to the panel for this discussion on the Committee, since it is clear that there is a need to respond in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u63	Madam President. Yeah, sometimes you're just too busy writing down what you're going to say about it. A senator says that you forget to ask for an answer. A senator. But then you just ask. A senator someday. President. We are here, in effect, talking about a new organization for the Council and how it should be financed. Yes, this is a certain excel gym, moving money between accounting keys, if we use that illustration. But what I see as a problem with this is really the kind of thing that has been done with all of this, that we're told, "There's going to be a new ministry." Then it takes some time to bring in all the songs and other things to tell you what it's like. Meanwhile, we're here at the council looking at the budget for the year, and we really know when we're accepting the budget that there's nothing to mark because it's going to move everything back and forth. I just don't understand a procedure like that. Why can't you make it up and really do professional things in this, so when we say the change, we'll see what they mean, not three months later, not five months later? I've worked for international corporations with bigger budgets, if we're to call it, than the State of Iceland. Every time they reported some changes, which were actually just every year, all of this had been moved and had been demonstrated. We talked a lot about it here each year before and how often the Board of Directors should change. All of us who have been in command and in business can agree that as directors, we need to have a chance to rethink how we are going to do things, and there is a whole study of how it is done. I used this talk for a year ago to review the key advantages and the main things to consider. It is not, as was done here, that the tops decide that we change something. Rather, it must be deep thinking and straggies behind what changes are being made and how. But I can agree with the leader of the government, Supreme Court. Prime Minister, when she said that she wanted the possibility of changing the organization. All right, let's stop arguing about it. But how do we do that? It also takes professional action, not just shake the sleeve a few months later. It's once so that we have technology that allows us to make more easy changes, and I find it really strange that it takes all this time to change it, to shift it, because I believe that even though some negotiations were probably about money and where they left, it was pretty clear, when it was said that this mission is being transferred from this Ministry to this department, we must at the same time take the money that has been marked to that point and bring it. If the Ministry doesn't have enough tools to do this, it would be to build such a ◯dref and release, where one project can be detracted to another Ministry, and then it'll just be done by itself and print a sizable budget. You see, it's a little deeper than just taking a long time. A lot of what? Councilmen who have come before me have mentioned that the circumstances change. This is once so that most plans change before they are once finished, so it is important to build up the plans and process so that you can deal with the changed criteria and see how this changed basis affects your plans. Priceitis will blow up. What does that mean for our plans? Thousands of refugees are coming here. What does that mean for our plans? You see, it's not enough to come here sometime in the fall and say: "Yes, we heard, the inflation was so intense that we had to raise these numbers and yes, heard, come here, we have to raise everything afterwards. This is not how it should work. There are no government expenses without a law telling them where to go. We live in a time in which all companies of the same size as the Icelandic Management Board have moved to the point that the whole operation is a data drive. Even in real - life times, at worst, monthly, and even many of them, if recorded in the market, can be seen showing that every quarter of the year is needed. They need to explain the effect of the changed factors. Here comes the highest. Ministers, saying, "Yes, this is happening, this is happening. Yes, it's bad that inflation - it's not my fault, it's somebody else's fault, it's somebody else's fault, it's somebody outside the country, or the government's fault. But the inflation is here, and we need to say: "How does that affect us? But we don't have a business that's really data drive, like everybody else is doing in the world today. Our work here at the High General Assembly is also affected, and I discussed just how ill - read laws really are. Trying to figure out where the money goes and how things are broken down and what effect all the suggestions on the change have - it's really just remarkable that we should go over our heads to come out of something because I think there are few, maybe a few in the budget, which are in the head exactly how it all works, or where the opportunities to do things. And when we're here at the Council, we're supposed to be making decisions about things like that. These extras we see here today, we can't see what specific things are going on. We're just talking about this on the highest books, that's what we're talking about. We didn't realize that maybe a lot of things are being brought up, cut down full in things, and we didn't realize that because we don't see them in the numbers we're given in the budgets. It really needs to improve the way these changes are taken, the effect of changing circumstances, new suggestions, changing things. It must be settled there, but it must also be settled here within the council. Getting printed so thick books with numbers and endless excel printing is not for anyone to understand or figure out what they're doing. You have to sit and trace, jump from one page to another, from one piece to the next, to figure it out. It is certainly an opportunity for a digital revolution in how we work with the budget and how we work with it whenever we earn. I think it's the cooperation that any group at the General could focus on, doing this to make things readier, easier, and then hang it to the explanation. Then I'd like to talk about it for a while. A senator spoke here about the Gardening School, e.g. can see the funding that went there for what it is, and can always go deeper and see how it is expected to run this gardening school, whatever money went each way, etc. It's completely impossible in everything we get access to. I'm just saying, if I had ever thought of wanting to be the head of a public agency - I wouldn't have to understand what the state tells me, it's getting a little complicated. We can watch the budgets that are now. We're wasting time watching them, going over them, making sure they're okay, making sure they're not making any changes, cutting down in some areas without finding out. But then, in fact, it has to come right after we've accepted this with a new budget, because a large part of the presupposed to what we agreed on for just four months ago is smiled. We cannot have our heads in the sand and say: There is nothing to change. It is our requirement here at the council and the people's requirement that we be dealing with these things. Indeed, we need to improve the way we work and the way we handle these finances and the financial resources that the State has to handle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech, an excellent idea. I'd like to think about this position in terms of translocation and changes in the budget. A great deal of work was laid up on public finance, premeditated, set up at the right time. Now we are faced with a lot of projects being stuck because of this transfer, all kinds of problems that have been followed, delays. I wondered if it wasn't irresponsible to go so fast in such changes, especially when we are coming out of a very delicate position by Covid. Whether governments were too quick, thinking that they could look very quickly past the circumstances that were just coming out of them instead of just going into building work after Covid. I wondered if this won't take so long because there was exactly no one to turn to this assignment. People in the council didn't know they were coming. This is not a result of the policy process that took place during this period. I also wondered if perhaps it could have been used, for example. In the year 2022, they are preparing for this project. If people could agree that this was important, why was it so urgent to appoint a new minister immediately? This would not have been necessary in a few weeks. We see now that there is a delay in the matter of sharing a number of plots between a party and the person knows because it will take 18 months. Why shouldn't have done this in other matters? I wanted to reflect these thoughts. Couldn't lead to that, huh? Senator, e.g. Here at the council might have been... Did any financial warrants for such preparatory work feel that the council might have been quite ready to watch that some small amount of money had gone to basic dating work that would have taken a little longer, and we wouldn't be dealing with such an enormous delay in the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u65	Madam President. You see, it's like that. A senator points out that working preparatoryly is worth it. We talked a lot about it this year ago that it has to be done in the right direction. You have to work with the staff, that's one of the basics that all experts in making the transitions in the systems say: They need to be worked with the people, not at a drop, pardon, Mrs. President, not from the top and down, but from the top to the bottom, they need to work it slowly. We all know that the public is not the fastest thing to do. It is not known for turning the ship around overnight, much less making all these changes. And, yes, this has been a frightening experience in many cases because the people first had to recognize where they were, what their new role was, their new boss. And, no doubt, some of the Ministry are still trying to get started in the right direction, despite the fact that February 1 has all started on a new ship. But it seemed more important to enter stewards and ministers. I ask myself, " Would it not have been possible to take some of these big plots and to have two ministers there for a while while while this was being thought out? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u66	A respectable president. Yes, indeed. I agree with what. A senator said that this should be possible. The government is something like an oil ship. But it may not have been as much of a public service as it is about chairs. I wanted to change my subject and still be on my own. There was a senator in his talk. We now see a wide range of analyses of the economy in foreign countries due to this situation in Europe. We see analyses showing that the impact - this came from the Economic and Development Institute for creating - on inflation in Europe could be plus 2%, the impact on world wheat levels could be negative by 10%. This could reduce European and U.S. economic growth by 1.71.5%. Where are official predictions of such things in Iceland? What is the basis of government decision making today in the economy? We can't see that at the council. Of course, we are waiting for the Standard Loftur, which is now developing a financial program. However, in view of the nature of the problem, I wondered. A senator was talking about translucency and funding because there is now a knowledge of people who sit in the council in mismanagement, to form a picture of whether there was no improvement when such a situation arises where there is such a big change in economic conditions and things that strongly affect the underlying sizes, whether it would be good for us to see a report here at the council that would come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which would cover the changes in this context. This would not necessarily be a financial issue, since we cannot always be waiting for a financial program at a time to get such a review. This clearly has a profound effect on the discussion, and I believe, just in the level of knowledge here in our discussion, that this would improve things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u67	Madam President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter that we need to have far more insight into how things are affected. I remember, and I talked about it this year before, that when I was studying in Denmark less than 30 years ago, Danir had a system that they call Adam, which was based on the fact that you could say: "I'm going to raise this tax about this much, and you could get information about the people involved. Eva was another control device they had, and Eva explained the impact of various changes on the environment; tax changes, economic changes, etc. It certainly is, and I am very quick to admit it, that I have e.g. I don't have the background of being able to figure out what that means when inflation goes up but that my loan goes up and there are other things. Having tools or tools or reports that can help us understand when the foundation is changing, how does this affect us? What do we here need to be thinking about and looking intently at because these things are happening? What a fine example of the war in Ukraine! How does that affect us? [[The president calls.]] It affects refugees, affects the cost of grains and fertilizers, and so on. It also has the effect of developing cooperation because of the increase in cost. [[The president calls.]] Most of the grain in Ukraine is sold to the United Nations to feed people who live during a famine. [[The president calls.]] How do we connect all of this? That is exactly what we must do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u68	A respectable president. We may recall a few years ago when the Council talked about burning in the middle of a bank crash that it made a bit of a joke that the U.S.R. world was being separated from what was going on in the community, from the economic situation of the home, and thus dealing with something completely different. I'm filming this because I think what we're dealing with in this Senate hall the past few days, and weeks reflect a very limited amount of the conditions that exist. Now we're dealing with a budget bill, and this isn't a personal financial bill in that way so that there's no budget specified in this bill. It's just a technical change. They're moving a budget team between recruitment and causes of heartburn. Of course, what we should be doing here is doing counter measures for the homes that are worst affected by such rapid changes, both when it comes to prices and when it comes to growth. Such measures are carried out or have already been carried out in most of the countries we compare ourselves with. As I mentioned earlier, the Ministry of finance has produced a memo that argues that the views behind such measures are not relevant here. An announcement to the Ministry's Web says, on permission of the President: In the United States, where swallowing is not dependent on oil and gas, it is less likely to be affected by economic conditions. Direct amounts of oil and energy in Icelandic households are much lower than those in most places, and costs have increased less. In fact, during the past 12 months, sex costs have increased by 6%, and transport costs have increased by 20% at the same time as European sex costs have increased by tens of percent, especially in countries using gas for sex. Of course, this is a situation that is far more damaging to consumers in these countries than to Iceland. Here, in particular, the inflation is driven by a full - scale housing market. In a new report from the National Ministers' Institute of Research, Iceland's housing prices increased most of the population in the pandemic. It was also so that unemployment grew more and more in this area. In part, it's just because of the way our job life is put together, but of course it has also something to say about what governments were hanging on to the tremendous production crisis, the tremendous economic crisis that arose from a pandemic. Of course, theflation here is driven by the housing team, as I said before, and the cost of housing is one of the largest budgets in most homes. That was why listening to the highest things was a little strange. The secretary of finance specifically says that the inflation was driven by the housing team that -- I don't know exactly what he meant, but he said it, his policy, his answer to the fact that at the council hall it was being brought to the attention of the huge sums of home prices, as if the housing market was the guilty person making the inflation something better here. Of course, this is not the way we should think. These rapid changes in prices and interest will require counterweight action here, just as in other places. These are actions that, as such. Just a reception of refugees from Ukraine, a reception that will, of course, test our infrastructure and our systems, all of this calls for increased financial resources. It's normal for us at the council to talk about it, but instead we're hanging out with a bill that's only about technical changes because of a review of the Board of Directors. All right. As mentioned here in the discussion, the home of low - paying people who have children do not end up together, and that is true even if they add considerable additional work. This is very convincing in the recent review of which Professor Stefán Ólafsson worked for the Efling Society. There he looks at pay, pension fees, taxes, and benefits, in view of the social security criteria on the cost of household living. These homes have a straight slope. He shows this in this comparison. This is, of course, what we should be talking about; counterwedding operations for homes that are the most critical of rising prices and growth increases. The Constitution of the government does not contain a single matter that handles this, not just one matter. Of course, we have heard declarations from stewards. They talk about the rest and this in news hours, but there's no way it's reflected in what's going on here in the Senate Hall. V.E.G. The minister of wood gave a talk on the need to give the nation more share in the gains of our common resources. That may be safe to agree with, but this may be because he is referring to a language field that is not under him. V.E.G. The minister of culture and trade has spoken, as we have today, and have done in the past few weeks, for the counterweight measures for a poor household that is in debt. But she's not the bank minister, that's for sure. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has recently begun to agree with the need for something like this, but he does not have any political issues related to it, nor does he reflect it on the financial aid bill that is here for this discussion, which, of course, will be just following those technical issues. Then you wonder, " What is going on here at the government table? ' Are people somehow merely in a popular contest rather than simply going to work harder and accepting the challenges we face? And because we're discussing the exact standard of living and the status of those who have the worst, including the worst, homes. in relation to banks and calls at the highest. A minister of culture to take action but also put some sort of whaleback tax on the banks and even on the seabed companies, which I think seem comfortable with, and I think most of us in positions of government should agree and help them in the government with, those who still have some social interest. In this context, I would like to read a good tip that is indicated in an article by Gylfi Zoëgi in the latest magazine. He says, with President's permission: A U.S.A. - A huge profit from a bank in 2021 is of interest. Their owners give themselves interest, raise interest, and pay the amount of services according to them. It is not possible for a company to decide one - sided profit, no more than it may be that employee decides one - sided rates of pay. In addition, the Icelandic state strengthened companies for travel services and related articles in 2020 and 2021 by tens of billions in order to save them from bankruptcy during the epidemic season. These expenditures prevented major loan losses. But it would hardly be then that bank owners have a party at the end of a money - making epidemic for the good of success in times when society was paralyzed. It is in this context as the highest. The minister of culture and trade, who is not taking proben, has called for whale taxes on the banks. You can agree with that. Of course, if you're going to put a whalecut tax on it, he's gonna have to grab the whales, and that's gonna have to tire in time. Law change will be done, and it's only natural for financial products to follow this kind of fermentation. But it's the same thing as all the other things I've mentioned here, counterrequisite action for the house's penitentiary that there's no harm in such matters. It's all in their mouths. So we just keep hanging out with this dolling, which is a word that's been used a lot here today. Of course, the success of this advice will be demonstrated. It is clear that there is already a delay. This has been observed in committee meetings, etc. Of course, this has also caused some confusion, but it was not clear at the beginning what agency heard under which minister, etc., but, of course, you wish the government to do all of this. What you're also concerned about is that the government is a little bit using this plot of advice as a scourging for a very unusual application of law, e.g. Just the employee's law and the personnel rights on the subject of advertising. We can see this from a cultural and commercial minister who seems completely impossible to take orders normally. It somehow involves selling government accountants from the council with completely unprecedented bait at 36 st. A staff song I wouldn't have wanted the General to participate in. The more serious it is, what was the sentence of the Ministry of Education at the university and the Ministry of Development? An agent of the Generals has already published an opinion on that phrase. There was no law. There was a very clear example, very clear instructions from the General agent for at least two opinions that made it totally predictable how this case would go down. But the Ministry said that all of this was justified by the deliberation of the advisers, and it would now have to be some government managers over there, and all of this would have to happen quickly. So I have a measure of concern about how the Board of Directors has somehow been used as an excuse for just a very unusual administrative operation, and I think it would be reasonable to mention it here when discussing a bill that specifically points to the exhilaration of the advisers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It struck me a little while I was listening to what. A senator said that he had a little discussion about the fact that we were here making changes that have really had no effect but the transfer of money between advisers. At the same time, however, we see all these adjustments. I would have thought it would have been a perfect opportunity, since it wasn't for the Ministry, before that. The body of elders to update the various things. Then I am not necessarily thinking about my expenses but also about my income, for I would have thought that inflation and other factors would affect that aspect too. It may be a little easier to update such things than to say, "Well, we're gonna spend so much on electric cars or something else, because we may regret it later. The question is, What in these adjusted terms could have a profound effect on the income side of the budget? We need to be thinking about it now because perhaps our income is about to drop dramatically, and as a result, the expenses that have been made are not necessarily realistic anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u70	A respectable president. I appreciate this important answer. Of course, money may increase to some extent as a result of inflation, but as a result of a decrease in economic growth, it may be diminished. It's a little hard to say exactly, I don't quite have that arithmetic in my head. Of course, you are right. The senator's motive for the budget of the current year is completely smiling, something that needs attention. It is not enough merely to provide a financial bill that will insinuate only to the instigation of the advisers. We should be talking here about these changes and how we're going to react to them, for example. that inflation is eating up the earnest people's wages, not only wages, but the benefits of those who rely on social security. All these factors are smiling because inflation has flared up. She was 6.2% the last time I knew, and I think the intelligence departments in the bank predict that she'll go up to between 7◯8%, but you never know. In the past, in general the inflation has been due to the housing market, but when there is such unexpected change in the world, things can happen that may not be accurately predicted by anyone. I think that as the imported inflation becomes more experienced in this area, this groundwork will be added to the budgets of the current year even weaker. This, of course, is what we should be talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u71	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As I pointed out earlier in my speech, I am not necessarily the person with the most economic knowledge or understanding of how these things happen. But now I'm looking back a little bit, and I know why. A senator watched things carefully before entering the council, and I just wanted to take one example. This meeting included funding on dealing with Covid, and now it has been reported that some 11 billion people have been paid to take a Covid test. 11 billion is no small amount. This year, it is over a billion higher than the one we are going to assist in development. Regarding the rules of procedure, I wonder: Was it just possible for the government to say that it was an open source for testing? And then, suddenly, 11 billion bucks. bill, expenses that may not have been in the budget, perhaps only came on the last day when the sum was coming. Is this some kind of surveillance? Is this some sort of retreat? Are we handling things properly when you can have all the development team in a single accounting key in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u72	Madam President. That was a good look at what happened. Senator. We were reviewing it earlier that since the beginning of the pandemic, at least Five, six, seven fundraisers and now this one right here. There's nothing for no reason that puts out money-a-weapons. But this is not done just afterward. It is based on an assessment of the cost of action, and it may be considered in the next financial bill if income or expenses are far beyond the schedule. It's the highest part here. Secretary of finance up to say that there is no need to supply new financial products due to possible barrier measures for home, etc., natural confirmation that there is no such thing as doing anything about it. Otherwise, there would be bills that would be based on some plan on how much action would cost. We can take, for example, the part - improvement process. She came into the council as a complete shepherd at the beginning of an epidemic in March 2020. Then it became part of a welfare committee, led by Helga Volda Helgadóttir, to fix it a bill and do it properly, to turn it into a real saving net for employees in the epidemics, employees and businesses in themselves, to hold up a demand in society and protect people and companies from this tremendous production system and economic crisis. [[The president calls.]] Eventually it got, I don't remember, 20 billion a year or something like that, even much more, it's someone else who remembers the numbers better than I do, but it's just an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u73	A respectable president. The one standing here. A senator who has spoken here, and I would like to begin by thanking him for his input into this matter, being new at council, different ages, and perhaps coming from his own soil, but, of course, we are now in this reality at the General Assembly. I'm just gonna have to say for myself, and I'd like to know if I'd share that experience with difficulty. I'm surprised at the work force at the General Assembly. We're here, of course, in terms of money money money, not really money transfers, but somehow you'll experience it, so you just talk into nothing. You stand here and think you're going to have a conversation about politics, which isn't politics, but things are arranged somewhere else, and there won't be a conversation in the audience about anything. I've been sitting for four terms in the town administration of Smokeytown, then the local council members sit at a meeting, both more things and smaller things, and have to deal with the issues or get into their arms and run matters through in a good way. But there seems to be no conversation here. Is it not unusual to experience this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u74	A respectable president. Of course, the question is correct. Senator. Maybe it's a bit of an endless story during the council. During our government opposition, we are very willing to give important careers, and we do not think to delay matters. But it is very strange what governments seem not interested in participating in political discussions with us. It's a seminar, General, the most important seminar in the country, and it's always surprising that it's the government situation that makes this conversation here while the government is missing. I don't think you can see them -- yeah, you meet them out there where the cookies are and stuff like that. But there's less to political exchange here, so I have to agree with it. A senator like me now so many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u75	A respectable president. Hv. In some way a senator spoke up that the council was often out of harmony with the public. We would often be talking about something that the public may not be interested in or that we are not discussing interests that are important to the public. We're talking about, under the name of budget money, moving money between schemes. But we could also be discussing measures, such as what to do. A senator mentioned, for a less lucrative home. There has been no discussion here in this financial situation that the public is experiencing that the situation in today's world is causing people trouble. It is only difficult to cope with low incomes and with family and home living. Then it is important that our welfare system seizes those who need it, and I feel that there is a lack in the discussion here that we are wondering what measures we can take at once. The inflation in this place is a serious matter. It was also noted that since inflation is increasing in other countries, the cost of inflation is increasing, and this inflation is being transferred to us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does the senator see any way to support such homes even now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23.u76	Madam President. That is correct. Senator. What you're worried about is when the imported inflation really starts to come to their senses and increases them on top of these housing increases that are, as I mentioned earlier, and as shown in this recent report from the Norwegian Institute, more than they have been in the other northern countries, including the U.S.A. For example, countries where governments have already introduced counterrequisite measures to their homes because prices are in a hurry. I share that vision with the wind. A senator would naturally now consider and engage in activities to protect the most lucrative homes, which will be the main target of high prices and increases in interest. I wanted to, and in fact, I wanted to, too. paritaprevir Einarsson, Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, who is behind me on the throne of the President, and Thorldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, four of us asked for the meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on the 8th of March that an open meeting in the Committee on these matters would be held. It hasn't been done yet, but I hope it will happen tomorrow or the other. It's been a long time since we asked for this meeting. Then hopefully we'll be able to hear what's in the load, whatever it is that's been discussed in the government, how it's been highest. A minister of culture and trade will see to it that he follows his ideas on whale taxes on banks and construction companies, how much. The secretary of finance is going to protect the income of the household by special measures for inflation. [[The president calls.]] Then we may also remember to hear something about the housing staff from the highest level. Minister of wood, who's been through it a lot in news time. Well, I hope this all turns out, but it has to be done as soon as possible.
