ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u1	As announced at a meeting yesterday, Katrín Sif Árnadóttir, a deputy of the people in the North Eastern District, took a seat at the General Assembly as a deputy for Jakob Frímann Magnússon, on Tuesday, February 22. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her seat before at the General Assembly and is therefore to sign her vows to the Constitution. I want to pray. A senator signing the staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u2	Katrín Sif Árnadóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u3	A respectable president. We want to protect our interests, and that is what we do. by fully defending the values of our greatest importance: freedom, human rights, democracy. Russia's domination of a free and sovereign nation, Ukraine, is the greatest threat to Western democracy in Europe for a long time. Then, a respectable president, it's important that we be clear of our position, that our community thinks. We are to take part in the actions of democracies and of our friends. In fact, I think we should do something similar to Danir, who has said that they are going to make progress in cooperation within the EU, within NATO, to strengthen their approach to the United States. That's exactly what we have to do, including In view of our protection and safety concerns, from national security, from possible Internet attacks, from potential false stories, etc. Although I know, and I realize that within the government there are groups that are suspicious of the EU and suspicious of NATO, we cannot afford to pass here. We need to speak very clearly. With respect, I feel that we need to be a little more decisive when it comes to this matter. It comes to my mind our attitude toward the Monsters of its time and of the economic pressures it was decided to take. I felt then the foreign minister to be a little alone for a while, as it was a pressure on them, from the leaders of national administrations, forward and independent groups, as well as the overhauling lobsterism on the part of the SFS and the magazine, to put commercial interests ahead of national standing; to put commercial interests ahead of the interests of our Iceland as a small nation in protecting our borders. We must be careful and stand with democracies when we witness the situation as much as the Russians do with Ukraine. My message, reverend president: no melodrama, no specialities in Iceland's approach to Russia because of the situation that has come up in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u4	A respectable president. During the last summer, a digital mailbox was approved by a central government service puzzle. In 1st. The law says that their aim is to promote effective public service, to increase transparency in the management and practicality and safety. At the same time, the purpose of the law is that the government's main offer be digital. All of this is the ultimate digital solution for the future. But on the digital reality there is another side. You see, these laws also include administrative laws, in which the people of the country are completely confined to seeing important documents about their interests so that they can respond to them and take full advantage of their rights and their interests. This is especially important because according to Article 7. can display a document in an electronic mailbox with the same right effect as a real-world policy. A little cautionary comment on the matter was given as it drowned in Covid News. Electrical emphasis has become so strong in the consciousness of many that it is possible to forget even those with home phones and mailboxes. In society, there must be flexibility. Officials must be offered to communicate data electronically and in the physical world. Not everyone is in a position to use electronic processes and needs to be considered, for example. does not have a computer or have access to a computer or trust to use a computer if this is now being replaced. We must consider the needs of people of foreign background, older people, disabled people, and anyone who for some reason cannot use digital information. For many, it is best to get to the place and talk to an employee in person. Lately, I have heard many experiences about these matters. At the General Assembly, there is no way that the mind can rule and say that something is unique to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u5	A respectable president. In a real time of terror, when Russia has again violated international law and invaded Ukraine, I felt positive that I listened to the Senate's suggestion of urgent solidarity here at the council yesterday and forward today. Now as never before, you see the need for the complete solidarity of democracies. We must face these measures together and with full force. But as it was positive to hear last night's message from members of Congress, I was shocked to listen to the calls of the local people on a radio show on the way home from the council. There each listener had another relationship to declare support for Russia's actions and complained about the one - sided broadcast of the local event. A respectable president. So I would like to encourage members of the council and the government to make this conversation with the nation and maintain these views that were heard here at the council yesterday. As far as Iceland is concerned, few nations will end more than a violation of international law. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Russia's invasion of the European sovereign state is a common subject to our work as a European nation. The message is just as true as it is that we are standing with European nations that have leaned up against the West, and we support their cause by all means. We have fallen asleep on guard, and despite the threat and aggression of Russia over the past few years, European leaders have been powerless and have even added to political difficulties in business and interest with the Russian government. In fact, even here there are voices of throwing the European Union together for business purposes and not just for afternoon radio. It would be a complete play for the small Iceland State, all of which depend on international law being respected by other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u6	A respectable president. In a recent published report on the revenue of the Happy University of Iceland, the work group reported: to ensure responsible playing in slot machines and to reduce the risk of gambling. What's responsible for playing machines? How to Reduce Unrespecting Games Is it okay, then, to play from your family every other meal or just one third of your children's meals? Or are the value of washing machines badly missing by the family or the value of the missing dryer? It is a shocking immorality that floats all over this box, and it never works out. How to reduce the risk of compulsive gambling Record cards? No, what hypocrisy. How does that feel about the ethics of Iceland's National Institute of Morality? It is absurd to use cards as a crutch to justify continued use of machines. There's only one way. It's breaking up with this shitty thing. There's only one solution, no machines at once, like 85% of the people want. With responsible playing, the report says that customers, compulsive gamblers, are informed about the risks of gambling and their common thinking errors. The addict knows the potential for games and knows that he is more likely to lose money with his involvement than to profit from it. In this way, we can minimize the potential cost. Such foaming is therefore a clear link between gambling and gambling problems. According to one estimate, only a small portion of the budget from compulsive gamblers return to the university. Of the more than billions of dollars, most of the profits yield as domestic and foreign costs. Who is the pink elephant in this case? Yes, it is the government that finances the University of Iceland and makes it pass that only a small percentage of the profits return to the school from the gambling addicts and the largest part goes to cost. It was immediately published by the Institute of Moral Values, which is why it is long ago time for a halt to this terrible loss of gambling machines and it is now time for it to be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u7	President. We need to talk a little bit about numbers. In a financial conference yesterday, I noticed that the calculated financial policy meant that income was increasing in terms of GDP without becoming a policy in financial policy itself, since that is what it is supposed to be about. If the government's going to make more money, then it needs to say how, at least, in financial policy, and in further financial development. Now we were getting an analysis of this from a financial committee that agrees with what I was pointing at yesterday. It's about Two percent increase compared to GDP, which should take on increased income, tax pay, how we really don't know exactly, during this period of financial policy. That's about it. 80 billion to pick up. 80 billion people in the government are going to make more money. All right. This is needed because the state funds are insurmountable. At the same time, there is also an unattractive operation of some 100 billion accumulated in 2025. Added to that, we are now 120 billion. We have reached a minus 200 billion - 120 in our minus - a reduced cost - and an increase of 80 billion in taxes. It's not in financial policy that votes for the following. I don't think it's possible to contribute financial policy like this without explaining exactly that during the election, the government intends to collect 80 billion extra taxes and reduce expenses by 120 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u8	Mr. President. Economic stability is one of the biggest interests of the public in Iceland, and it is a fact that we do not live in such stability today with the growth rate and inflation, as is so often. But it doesn't have to be that way. Economic stability is not a peripheral dream but a goal that we believe will be best achieved by Iceland's entry into the European Union and subsequent video recording of Euro. But that is far from the only benefit that cooperation between European countries through the European Union involves. The European Union is one of the most important peace alliances in history and supports public freedom, security, and rights across borders. What a beautiful ideal that has proved to be precious to Europe! Since the end of World War II, Iceland has been involved in many international cooperation. The purpose, aim, and benefits have always been the same: Iceland's stronger place in a nation. We are in this society stronger in political and cultural terms. We're stronger with security and protection, and of course we're stronger on economic and commercial issues. This cooperation has strengthened the international voice of Iceland and enriched us, made us stronger, made us stronger, and that's what's happening. If we review these facts to the embarrassing position in the eastern part of Europe today, it is clear that without the European Union, there would be a much more complex partnership against the superiority of the Russians. Now the people of Ukraine need to enjoy the strength of their concordance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u9	A respectable president. Yesterday, my proposal was handed out to the synopsis for groundwork. The proposal involves that the General conclude to hide a university, industrial, and innovation minister to set up the pioneers with the goal of furthering innovation in the country. This proposal complies with Iceland's cluster policy from March 2021, specifying pioneers as pioneers for success in innovation. The policy offers a vision of the future that by 2030 Iceland will be among the top countries in terms of sustainable development, competitiveness and general prosperity. So that these goals can be achieved, there must be more room for pioneers to work on their interests. The end-of-the-line job pays the pioneers an opportunity to exploit the creative forces of sub-natural innovation and to draw new solutions. Implementation of autonomic autonomy in innovation gives rise to more scope for thinking, thus providing more and more complex solutions to today's complex issues. Thus, there will be an opportunity to work out a number of challenging issues of the day, e.g. to create new solutions based on the cycle economy and sustainable use of resources. Sources' salary can also become an effective tool for urban development, since one of the objectives of Iceland's cluster policy is to set aside funds for urban development. I got it. I got it. Parliaments to study the proposal, its objective is to further promote the support of the country's prototype and pioneer work, with an increase in multilingual instruments and an increase in valuableness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u10	A respectable president. It is appropriate at this point to use this opportunity and to rejoice over the fresh and timely reduction of the disease. But more serious than that. As already entered here by reason of reason. Sadly, members of the Parliament are experiencing a more serious position of conflict and uncertainty, a position that calls for solidarity with Western countries in their struggle for respect for international law and for national self - determination, as well as the actions that will come about in order to support that solidarity. This situation is not limited to a person in Ukraine. This is the crisis of Europe and Western countries, where respect for Western values must be high and their defenses must be high. An armyless nation will inevitably be able to fit in with the extent to which we share in a defense alliance with NATO, a defense alliance that has the main purpose of ensuring the freedom and security of its member states, under the emphasis on democratic values for peace. True, we are a proud, independent nation, but in this regard it is not wise to be an island in a personal sense. Of course, in over 70 years of affairs the history of the Icelanders was that NATO had different levels of consciousness for our existence in that coalition and, of course, different senses of its need. President. This situation is to remind us in a powerful way that it is not just a krusette far away that is not our concern. This is a crisis that is an attack on our values and calls for solidarity and response, a response to which our role in the NATO defense union is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u11	A respectable president. A press release on the Council's Homepage of June 11, 2014, was announced by the President's permission: ▪ Timamoths in foreign languages With the aim of speeding up the treatment for trust, improving the process and ensuring that the State Department and the Red Cross in Iceland today have made a contract for the service to the restitutors. Since 2014, lawyers from the Red Cross have cared for the rightfulness of the job with candidates for international protection in Iceland. The purpose of the work was, as I mentioned in this quote, to improve the process, to speed up the lawsuit, and to improve the use of government funds. Those who disagree with me and my colleagues often disagree in refugee affairs, including some of them. The independent group in general, his policy is not mystique, often talking about these goals that we share together, which are ensuring the use of financial resources and efficient and the speed of court treatment. In recent years, as it has been reported, the minister decided not to extend this agreement with the Red Cross, which in itself is no big deal if it had been followed by a new arrangement, to get a new partner to do this rights work, and even to go to another bid. Now, a minister has mentioned that there is not even a time for an invitation, and in fact, no one knows what will happen. So I'm aware that the objective of these matters with the Minister is, not to speed up judicial management, to ensure effective management and use of government funds. So I ask, What is the goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u12	Mr. President. Opinions and social freedoms, such as ours in the North countries, are not self - sufficient, but they are the best communities in a world where there is more confidence in man than in other countries. One of the greatest threats today to communities and democracies as a whole are cybercurrent, and all communities are under attack. We must find ways to protect open and free communities and to view democracy like necessary infrastructure, view democracy like the school system, the health system, the road system, and the transport systems, because without a democracy that is respected, society is all at risk. In power, parties take advantage of a mismanagement of information to confuse people, to weaken their opponent, and to make it harder for them to defend themselves. The Internet attacks are followed by frontal attacks on the interiors of society, and the threat to public institutions and private companies can occur. The international network, information, and false reports are overrun, and it is vital that the nations work together and oppose these threats. We have seen clear examples of the consequences. I can mention the election on Bfenit, the Presidential election in the United States in 2016, and I conducted Russia in the Ukraine issue. But what can be done? Education is important. We need to strengthen the common foundation of knowledge and educate our young people, but we also need to educate older people who sometimes scatter false stories without knowing what is behind them. The media play a key role, the media that clear out the information industry and provide democratic discussions, which receive legal protection to do so best. An attack on journalists who are doing this role is actually an attack on democracy and on free and open communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u13	A respectable president. Special emergency services are located in Reykjavík. Those who are ill near the Hospital will receive immediate and effective service in emergency care. In fact, there was a campaign within the Hospital to welcome those with symptoms of stroke. Reductions in the number of minutes from reception were attempted, analysis of the period of special emergency surgery. This is what I call a great work ethic, and it's important that we all live in such professional and professional emergency services. What, though, is the situation of reception, diagnosis, and action for people who become acutely ill on the land? This will not include specific emergency measures, and it is important that the full-term diagnosis be followed by a diagnosis of appropriate medicinal products and be immediately called for medical flight if South-reaching is required. But what about the situation in the East? Eastland is the longest route to Reykjavík, 400 miles. This further contributes to the importance of emergency analysis as short as possible. But at the Egls, we have the operation on unsupervised receivers and emergency equipment. A fourth hospital is well equipped, but in the East, a quarter of the hospital is not a central hospital and people are often in the vastest rural society in the country, the Mulla Council. It is not possible to drive all the way from Egls, to the quarter of the hospital, 80 miles (58 km) for emergency analysis, to drive another 58 miles, then to 400 miles [400 km] of flight - it would be better to ensure that the Hydromur could land in the vicinity of the Land Hospital, since the minutes are also very important in the country, not just within the Land Hospital. These facts are the reason for a synonym that I am working on as a result of an important tool for emergency analysis of the Egls. I hope that that council proposal has its beginning and support amongst members of Congress, and we will be assured of our health safety through informed and professional analysis, no matter where we live in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u14	A respectable president. On Monday a report on agrienvironment schemes was published by the head of agrienvironmental products, which may be said to have had a fall points. The report made serious comments on the land's customs. This is surprising, since similar assessments of these factors were carried out in Tollin nine years ago. Many of the busyities that appeared then still apply today. In spite of an enormous increase in the number of recent years of import of agrienvironmental products, especially dairy products, the importance of monitoring has not been increased, unfortunately. Surprisingly, though, although a customs venture on imported products was somewhat in the reflection of the previous year, it seems that nothing was tried to correct or improve its efficiency. The publication confirms what has been said, that there is some error in the export of the European Union and the import of Iceland's Economic Office in the case of certain agricultural instruments. We are now working according to an international classification system of exporting goods prepared by a customs team in Brussels. Therefore, customs monitoring should not be an astrophysics agreement. In spite of this, it seems that it is not possible to clean the right products in this country. In line with the information provided by immigrants, Trolls here are being carried out in accordance with the information provided by immigrants, and it seems to trust this information blindly rather than compare it with the registered list of immigrants. It is interesting that there are Icelandic immigrants free to share their products freely, and when you look at the discrepancies, you are not free to believe that these are determined offenses. A respectable president. Then we come to the importance of the surveillance. It is essential that the taxpayer be more cooperative with other international customs agencies. In the meantime, unfair business practices will continue to take place here on the land, and financial losses will be due to government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u15	Mr. President. I would like to have an unpopular but still necessary conversation. The talk of hatred speech must take place under the proper hint. It is common to note that the strength of lawgivers around a hatred speech is an act against freedom of expression. That's not true. There is a law on hatred speech, but it hardly works. A hatred under the premise of freedom of expression has many cooling effects on vulnerable groups. They fear to express themselves, and thus they hate words of hatred to their freedom of expression. They fear to reach out for public employment and thus weigh on their freedom of movement. They fear to be under attack and to take in hate speech so that their freedom to enjoy a healthy life. It is only to see that the Lawgiver's will is to address such hatred speech as the law given by the Allied Council to protect the freedom of these vulnerable groups are defective. There is complete exception that violations of the law lead to condemnation. Is it the lawgiver's will to establish a law that those who tolerate hatred can't rely on when it comes to trials? What I want to know is, what's going on in this law? Is it because we, the lawgiver, aren't there enough effort to strengthen the legislation in the rhythm of the times, in the shape of technology change and definition? Is this because of the development of legislation? President. I want to reiterate that improving laws that are already present against hate speech is not a matter for people's freedom of expression. It is our job to ensure that there are laws that cover hatred and involvement against the most vulnerable groups of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u16	Mr. President. I would like to discuss here the serious events in Ukraine, which have now taken on a worse picture, with the United States' sovereignty being further broken by Russia. International law is being violated, and this will not be a pleasure. In Ukraine, the general population is faced with the prospect of becoming a victim of intense conflict. How important it is that nations cooperate in their response! A fundamental factor is that national boundaries are respected and self - determination, that we Icelanders should know. Here we need to show political solidarity with other Western countries during economic and other activities to bring about a peaceful solution. We must not lose what has been achieved by better communication and peace in the continent over the last few decades and how to meet common challenges. It is necessary to step down firmly and, if possible, to turn away from the sequence of events that is taking place and find a more successful way through diplomatic solutions that are in everyone's interest. The General Department of Foreign Affairs reviewed this morning, and afterward we will be meeting with the minister of foreign affairs. It is of utmost importance in the following words that the position of the committee and of the council on the seriousness of matters continues and that we cooperate with the international community in response and contribute to a more successful solution to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u17	A respectable president. The strength of Icelandic society is our belief in peace, human rights, and democracy. From a republicary institution, our success has been based on our own self - determination rights for action and the determination of our own destiny. Blessings have not been the threat of war to our existence or to our sovereignty since World War II. Our safety is based on strong mutual defenses of the Community, which highlight common defenses and close cooperation. Iceland has accepted its responsibility in these matters and is to continue to do so. With Iceland, we understand the importance of the respect for international rules of play. The invasion of a free and sovereign state must never, never be, without consequences for the ruler. Mr. President. Me and the Icelanders are a small, warless nation in a productive land. Security issues in our continent are very serious and call for a mutual response. The situation also teaches us the importance of our sustainable land, our food security assured, our international contracts are respected, and our defenses are secure. It is and will always be our moral duty to promote peaceful relief and to combat wars that are merely the cause of innocent citizens. I believe, Mr. President, that governments and Generals speak clearly to the values that have brought peace and prosperity in Europe for decades and that no discount will be given there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u18	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. A food minister for being with us today and for you, my dear. Councilmen. I have built this special discussion in four most direct questions. Food ministers, but I will speak about them in other ways. I'm going to read, with president's permission, what are those questions? It's the highest. Ministers who are aware of the much negative information now taking place in Europe and elsewhere following the haematochemy documentary in Iceland? For good reason, this question is presented. It's simply because we are waiting on an enormous number of foreign positions because of this activity, which most people would consider to be immoral, so to speak, in the year 2022, in what we would call a civilized society. These include a small number of individuals considering the entire body of those who engage in these activities. A large proportion of all horses in Iceland are being used for this work, as already noted by a professional network where we have had a good guest. They have shared more with us, both those who have more personal interests in life and who want to continue to practice this trade and, in contrast, those who are more concerned with the welfare of their own animals. Another question I'm asking for the highest. Food minister is, how are you planning to do the highest. Ministers respond to defending Iceland's reputation in foreign lands, not from banning all bloodbaths? It should be noted that it is entirely within her control to make sure that this activity is no longer under control. Third, Telegram. A minister justified in sacrificing so much more interests for my own that helmint will not be stopped and it will not be stopped immediately? I've said before, and it's been shown here that an Iceland lab that's been marketing our country in a foreign land has grown a great deal by demonstrating our purity and beautiful nature. Now, for the past six years, certain funds have been arranged to advertise the Icelandic horse, Horses of Iceland, advertise him in his clean, beautiful environment, and in no place would anyone ever have thought of talking about blood management there, for it is very emotional in many ways. I've been a senator for the past five years, and I've never had someone else to react to as I am now. As soon as I'm here, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all those who've sent me a caller have sent me letters from abroad and all over. I would never have believed that the case I gave to you before last spring was going to grow so huge. Why did I recommend this matter in the spring, wanting to go looking for blood transfusion to be forbidden? Yes, I studied animal travel legislation after I had received a lot of phone calls and including such ugly descriptions that I can hardly say them and that these were not the pictures we've been given from the animal attraction organizations, pictures that the reporters allow themselves to speak of as a propaganda video, not a documentary book, but a propaganda video. Then I ask: " What is the name of the video, and what is it called if an action that was actually seen there? Or do people who talk about it as a propaganda video think it was just a game, it's just a fake? But, Mr President, I can assure you that there is nothing to be said about it. No one is talking about the growth of the situation, so that all mares have to put up with the miserable conditions and treatment that, in most cases, must be the issue. But this is actually a clear fraction, as is shown by both animal doctors and other sources on the animal protection law. Since 2017, the Food Organization has not even required permission, it is not even authorised. Me and anybody, we can just go and get some mares from Iceka and start pumping out that blood with a half-inch needle and taking five litres, thank you, once a week, up to eight weeks in a row, 40 litres.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body took the initiative, and I think it is very good to have the opportunity to discuss this matter here in the Senate Hall. I'm going to try to answer the questions that are presented in this issue. A senator like me has the best opportunity. Hv. A senator began by asking if I would be aware of the much negative information about blood quality management in Iceland, which is taking place in many European countries, following a documentary on this activity in Iceland. So quickly answer: Of course, I have observed the discussion that has developed. According to the Ministry of State, the debate has certainly been available in Europe. The debate there has been negative and will certainly fail to influence the country's image, although it was not very extensive, according to the Ministry of State. I appointed a team at the beginning of the year to discuss the blood collection of pregnant mares. My deputy leads that group, and he also serves as a representative of the Food Agency and National Institute for Morality at the University of Iceland. This group is designed to examine the activities, regulations, and monitoring around them. It is important that these discussions be addressed with all the facts on the table. More important, though, to ensure the well - being of such animals is our primary objective. It is, in fact, under law. I've worked on this group to come back early because of the seriousness of my eyes on this matter. Hv. A senator then asks how I intend to react to defending Iceland's reputation in foreign lands. I'll answer that with a reference to a first answer. I believe that the best response to our reputation is that all decisions are based on the greatest knowledge and facts. When the results of the next month are presented, which will hopefully be right away, it will be time to make decisions, and it is not really possible to determine what they will be until then. Hv. A senator asks if the person listed here thinks that it is justified to sacrifice so much more of my interests if blood supply cannot be stopped already. The question is, I know exactly who these interests are, and I can really weigh them and judge them in a simple way. The fact is, it is not that it is easy to appreciate these interests. This is not merely a matter of simple money interests and to see if the value of export interests on the material derived from the blood of loaded mares outweighs the interests that may be involved. It's not about that. It's not supposed to be. Why do I say that? This is because if this approach is general, i.e. If this were just a simple account example of dollars and money, we would always make decisions based on financial interests alone. I don't want to do that, and I won't do it where there are certain principles and moral issues, but they are turning toward the aims of laws on the well - being of animals. Icelandic legislation has the goal of contributing to the well - being of animals, that animals are free of discomfort, fear, hunger, etc. This is done, not because we are so good, but because animals are sentient creatures and are of value in themselves. In this way, we as a community of animal traffic laws say that these views are worth living in. It is important that life is worth living. Hv. A senator also asks if I can claim at some point that the treatment of wildly packed mares does not conflict with animal welfare laws and regulations based on them. I can't guarantee that, because government patrolrs are not on the scene at all places, they live all year. No matter what the operation, however, it is the duty of all animals to obey the law. A respectable president. I hope I have more answers and better things to do here in the discussion later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u20	A respectable president. Farming is, in effect, an ecosystem in terms of the environment, living together with humans and other animals in nature, characterized by a mutual fulfillment of needs and mutual respect. We have many examples of such agriculture in this country. It is stated in the review of the National Animal Protection Association of Iceland at the National Institute of Inga Sæland, on the prohibition on blood control, that the relationship is the basis for these receptors mera cells to be responders. that horses are allied up, and they can go to a booth without panic or stress. If this is only a matter of pause, then questions may be placed at once, as this is not the case with tamed mares. Photos that have appeared to public vision show unscrupulous harshness and fear - inspiring creatures. While these forms are certainly not to be drawn too systemically, no one is suggesting that they are featured. This is particularly unacceptable to the animals in question and to the reputation of the Icelanders as a horse people does not need to have many words. The industry we're discussing here shows us modern habitats where man's precious connections to other animals and nature have been broken, depending on the needs and criteria of the laboratory. It's all about practicality and production. We see here man's advanced science and methods of developing materials with all the imagination we receive, with all this intelligence focused on females and their physical functions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u21	Mr. President. There is a time when real excitement is becoming without content, with more attention to playing on people's feelings. Most sad of all, I am about how the political party and its leadership weigh on the professional honour of veterinary surgeons and farmers, and I weigh the honor of people who have worked their lives to keep livestock and have ambition to do it and to practice veterinary practice. These people are weighed very frequently during this discussion. There have been no reports of such confirmations except that this livestock is generally well cared for and cared for. Granted, there are variations and variations that we should take. There's nothing new in Iceland that there's a variation from the current law. At the outset, questions raised by an apocalyptic court state that there has been such a loss of opinion and indiscretion. But where can we measure that loss? This is not seen in the export of horses in the past January of which 340 horse horses were exported, at the same time in the first 246 horses, and in the preceding 169 C.E. Traveller books look just as good and, in fact, never better, advocates of travel. You can do better than that, and the discussion has been of least benefit to you. Therefore, there must be rejoicing and no doubt will be changes, and they will continue. I have to say, a respectable president: Is it possible that under the sign of a fight against poverty in this country, we have gained a political party that has set its target on unique sectors in order to harm and harm them and paint bad examples of abnormalities that we all condemn? The people have abandoned their source, but the rest of us who do not want to look away, not destroy what is broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u22	A respectable president. I think that everyone in this room who watched the scary video that we saw earlier in the winter, earlier in the summer or fall, was crying to see it. Of course, that is how each of us feels when we see bad treatment of animals. It is worth considering how the definition of poor treatment has changed over the years. The things we once felt were wrong, and luckily, our definition and awareness of what was being treated are changed for the better, as has happened with human rights and other things. We must not forget that it was not for hundreds of years since it was all right to treat people badly, just because it was different in colour. But the big question we need to ask ourselves is, Are we going to ban all of this or all of this because some farmers have not followed the laws that apply to us? Or do we need to improve our surveillance, our education, our research, yes, and our blood circulation rules? These are questions we need to ask ourselves at a council but also outside the council, and we need to have a broad discussion of the development of these matters, how we use animals for human consumption, drug production, or entertainment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Inga Sæland, for this discussion, and I also want to thank the highest. Ministers for his inputs and others who have come here. It is only natural for people around the world to be distracted by this documentary. But is this the truth of the whole matter? Yes, what happened there is a very bad anomaly. I'm not going to subtract anything from what was done there, and I agree with those who have appeared, it wasn't staged. Let's get this straight. But let us also be clear that what we watched was not what the north is about. It is all too important to practice this article lovingly, to do this well, but certainly it can always be done better. We've been discussing this on a professional committee lately. A number of comments have come to the Commission, one 137 reviews, and it seems to each one. There are a number of reviews that express the fact that a person wants to avoid blood circulation, and only right away, while others take a softer hand in the matter. It is up to us in the Committee to work and evaluate and to propose to a minister what will be done thereafter. We do not ban a job in Iceland by relying solely on a documentary adopted by foreign animal protectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u24	Mr. President. We'll discuss Iceland's expensive well-being and reputation as a horse - made nation, as well as a nation that puts the welfare of animals above financial short-term benefits. These are very important issues and it is important that they be discussed here in this room. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, and the highest. Minister for their introduction. We've all seen the footage, I suppose, and I condemn, I say, the kind of treatment of animals that do not meet the strict requirements. Such harsh and violent behavior is simply undefeated, no matter how it might be viewed. In fact, the majority of farmers take good care of their animals. The work of the few brings to the fore all who engage in farming, and this is a serious matter. It is the responsibility of the government that is responsible for orderwork and monitoring. I hear a minister saying that on account of the government, this matter is being examined. A team has been appointed to analyze the haematopoietic functions, the routine work and the monitoring. I'd like to use this opportunity here to further encourage ministers to speed up that work whenever possible. You see, not only are the well - being of the animals but the reputation of the well - known group, the peasant class, which is inadmissible to the same kind of hat here. That too is a serious matter. We need a clear rule of action to ensure the well - being of animals. We need improvements in this legislation, which aim to improve the welfare of animals. These reforms, in view of the situation and in the light of the discussion, simply do not tolerate any waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u25	Mr. President. I would like to thank the advocate for this special discussion, as well as the work that has been started by the government at the highest request. Minister to see what is involved in haematopoietic management in this country. We know throughout history that regularly there is concern about Iceland's reputation risk. We know this in the long run through the whaling of the Icelanders and other matters, since the activity here at home certainly has an impact and on chapters negative on the appearance of the country from outside. But like a dog. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson came in here to show the numbers we see, especially in the travel services and exports of horses, that we do not have a negative trend in those subjects if we take out of parentheses what, of course, is an impact of the epidemic we have had in the past miseries. I just hope that the current work will provide a basis for this activity so that it will be an expensive success and good conduct for those who engage in these activities. Concluding individuals have presented quite a reasonable view of these matters, such as. Dr. Ewald Isenbugel, former head of the zoo in Zurich, recently wrote an article. I understand the process of being warned that humans are going too far in terms of the use of these bloodletting options. [[The president calls.]] We need to find the proper balance both for the best and for farmers to continue doing this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u26	A respectable president. On October 20 of the past year, the European Parliament, the highest legislator authority of the European Union, a total of over 700 members, decided to challenge the European Commission and Member States to stop the import and production of the growth hormone derived from blood, or PSMG. Why? The reason is simple. This growth hormone is systematically taken from a pregnant mares. The European Parliament was not attacking farmers or farmers in the European Union, much like that. The European Parliament was here looking at the interests of the mares, the interests of animal protection. It's these interests that matter. Is blood circulation, growth hormone taken from pregnant mares, animal blood supply or not? We can also discuss the economic causes and reputation of the country. Blood count in Iceland was also discussed at the dance party on Wednesday, more than a week ago. The reason was this video, the video being taken in Iceland for haematopoietic management. Is it obvious that the video was drenched by members of Congress and Ministers? The minister concluded the discussion by saying that he would take this into consideration, and I predict that this opinion will without fail lead to the declaration of growth hormone. The Swiss have already stopped buying blood hormone levels from Iceland. For the last week, a Swiss pig breeder government decided to forbid the use of PMSG in pigs. This is because they are buying blood hormone from Iceland. The pressure on blood cells is three-fold that of other horses. They use energy to produce milk for the foal and to develop the unborn shell and use energy to improve the amount of blood loss. I believe this is a fundamental matter, which is a question of where Iceland is going to settle down among civilized nations when it comes to animal life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u27	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. I'm a little bit thinking about how you're going to mislead the discussion, as is the fact that this is an assault on agriculture. I simply refuse because we are here talking about animal protection. We know that there is a wide pot broken in Icelandic treatment of animals. We can look for fish. Sheep or cows are badly treated somewhere. Most people are doing well. That's just not what this case is all about. As far as I can tell, bloodletting is terrible, no matter what circumstances it is made. We can also ask, What are we doing this? Is this about food security? No, it's a matter of making a lot of money for private companies at the expense of their population and other habitats. I think we need to get very tight on the ground. I'm with a importer on this case. However, I would like to say that I realize that blood flow will not be banned with a single pen dash. I am very grateful that the minister has set up this task force. I realize this is a matter that needs to be won over a period of time. If you are involved in this operation and need to stop it, you may have to repair any damage, but this is not going to be tolerated. In the long run, we are to stop taking in blood from loaded marshes. We can obtain these fertility drugs in other ways, in which animals are not damaged.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u28	A respectable president. Iceland is now only one of the few European countries, if it isn't just two countries allowing horses to receive blood because it's a very controversial industry. Its unveiling has led to its decomposition because of the poor treatment of mares and their offspring. Today, there are 5,000 new horses for this purpose. The production has tripled in 13 years. Of course, no one should doubt what the aim of animal living is. It is that animals are spared from distress, suffering, hunger, thirst, pain, injury, and disease. The reports and videos that have daily exposure to blood flow are by no means in line with these animal traffic goals. Of course, it is true that monitoring for food production and the well - being of animals has improved in recent years, as shown by stopping these activities. Times change, and I think people are becoming increasingly aware of the moral questions that arise when it comes to carnivorous production. There has been strong evidence that the bloodletting of pregnant mares is an animal, especially when taking an enormous number of blood from mares. I welcome the initiative shown by the members of Stockholm's council in this case. I think we have to deal with this, deal with it in the case of unacceptable treatment of mares, and when that is the premise of making meat by increasing the performance of pigs and cows far beyond what may be considered natural. We have to talk about this and take these matters more seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u29	A respectable president. We'll discuss blood circulation here. The conduct and unprecedented footprints of the people that horse prayer's professional freedom are similar to attacks that have been endured by whaling. The General Assembly and the media have been widely used to call for positive comments on the bill and bring shame on the quality of their lives. That window has not been used to convey its messages to blood-supervers. In a radio interview, a surgeon said that if the individual anomalies due to adverse treatment of farm stock lead to a ban on entire habitat, all animal consumption in agriculture must be banned in Iceland. A respectable president. What activity is going to cause the next group of people to stop because of today's sector of employment or human life. In that light, do we associate rural and city together and should not ban entertainment in the middle of the city of Reykjavík, where unhuman treatment of people takes place most weekends? Such violence puts the hospital's emergency department at risk and in danger of the lives of the others. For 40 years, farmers in the South have kept blood marshes, and this is part of the rural population of families. Seeing that they are no medicineless, unique, wholesome products, these mares are hatched with foals in a fine pasture. A respectable president. No blood transfusion has been reported to be dangerously injured. According to the Food Agency, there is negligible information on manufacturing diseases related to blood donation. Other complications are unknown. In the United States and in the media, one authority has said that the weight of the nations is far below the normal level of blood. According to the Food Organization and the Maturisers, this claim is absolutely false. A respectable president. It's a bill that's why. paritaprevir Inga Sæland is full of false records. There is a search for the right farmers who have not received any comments from public sources on the poor treatment of blood cells. No contraction has occurred in the export of horses. Incriminate and injuring the currency of exports is the dangerous freedom of the industry of farmers and damages the image of a professional life, a general assembly and a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u30	A respectable president. I have personally experienced the loss of a little focus on this matter. It truly rose this time with a documentary published publicly and showed adverse treatment of animals. It is only natural for him to become a focus. However, the important thing in this discussion is that this is not only the possibility of poor treatment, which is the problem when it comes to taking blood in pregnant mares. I'd like to agree with many members of the council here, including some of them. paritaprevir Joddis Skúladóttir and Jódís. paritaprevir In this regard, Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson. Like a snooze. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, the Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made it clear that this type of work can really be done in a truly good situation, although it is not excluded. He writes in the review of the Animal Protection Association of Iceland, which I'm going to allow myself to refer to as well, where the minimum animal health law is said to be threatened. In order for them to be reached, however, animals need to be free of pain, hunger, thirst, fear, suffering, pain, injury, and disease, as sentient creatures, and that they can display their normal behavior as best possible. Like a snooze. paritaprevir The Gísli Ólafsson pointed out earlier, our society in constant evolution and our treatment of both people and animals is just as moral and moral as well as our way of handling our moral ideas. To criticize this industry, we do not need all haematological requests for poor treatment of animals. In a moral sense, it is also important to look at the bigger picture and examine, for example. to whom this practice is practiced. [[The president calls.]] I haven't had enough attention in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] In the past, we do not look to the indirect consequences of what we do and to the fact that we have a history of responsibility for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is something that we need to stress in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert for what and what. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for this discussion, as well as the highest. Minister for her answers here in the discussion earlier. The issue we are discussing here, forbidden to blood flow, is now being discussed on the job committee, and the committee has discussed this at two meetings that are of this year. Last night at the meeting, the committee had visitors, including... from Iseka ehf, Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Iceland's Animal Protection Association, Compulsive Tamaists, and the National Association of Horse Associations. Earlier, the committee had discussed the food ministry and the location of the case and the work being done. V.E.G. A minister entered his statement earlier than what is going on right now in order to analyze the range of jobs that are involved. I have to say, the publicity presented to the Committee meeting was very interesting and informative, where much information was presented that is very important in the project so that a complete opinion can be made on this matter. It is the most important thing to have information, to have it correctly, and to have it as the most accurate information at any given time. A decision cannot be made without any information on the issues and issues involved. But what is this about? This video has been released which was made of this mares transfusion for Iseka. I've never met anyone who's been trying to measure this video. What happened there is completely undefeated. But there is a variation, as we have seen here, particularly in the European Animal Medical Association. We have to watch this, so we're talking about, and the assessment is about whether we're gonna ban jobs here, and then the other thing, this unique incident that happened in the video. We have to realize and distinguish between these two things, my knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u32	Madam President. I want my second talk in this discussion to include what is so important in everything we do, but that is to learn from what goes wrong in the early stages. We'll see, for example. the development that has occurred in the context of layovers where it is now to be obliged to be a free environment instead of being in cages. I think it was postponed about 12 months to be next year. Not everyone agrees that it is the best thing for the layers, but it is now the evolution, the approach to the materials attributed to Astrid Lindgren, if I remember correctly. The circumstances of pigs have improved dramatically over the past few years and decades in view of the recent development. There are other ways in which people and others are different. This is, of course, an object that is very likely to have to happen, at least Partly, for farmers who are haematopoetic. But in my opinion, we must not approach the issue in such a way that the function must be permanently cut off to correct the errors that occur. As mentioned in the discussion, no one becomes the subject of this controversial video, but it does not change the fact that we should use it to learn from it. The report of the veterinarian, mentioned here in my first speech, particularly involves the volume of blood donation. Of course, these are things that must be considered in the commission work that is being carried out now and that is why we should learn. This is what I wanted to say here in the second year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u33	A respectable president. I warmly thank all those who have participated in this need for this discussion on blood - saving activity in Iceland. I want to direct my words to the point. The members of the Independence Party, the headdogs of the system, and, yes, I'm just gonna say it: There's nothing scraping it off when you ride a bicycle in the head of the Gangs. Nothing is being scraped off when it comes to the loss of your background. We're gonna go for a Haraldur. Benediktsson I'd like to say this: We've never been closer to the source than when we get the chance to represent a mute here at the General Assembly of Iceland. This footage we've been given is a fragment of footage that probably counts about 119 hours, and you're going to pick it up in front of you, who make it look like a single, specific example.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u34	Why don't they want...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u35	But there is a very significant element in the main context: There is only one nation in Europe who is engaged in this bloodbath at the quantity that we are doing here. There is one farmer who was falling away from that thing in Germany last summer. They're forbidding it from a distance to buy this hormone. And why? Do you really think farmers are being attacked? You think they're doing it? We've requested that, and we made a suggestion to the 2022 budget that 220 million be put in. K. to improve the needs of such farmers. At the top. Food Ministers I would like to say: I also found it sad to see that this committee is investigating itself, as it was from a food clinic that has been concealed and discovered in a masquerading regard to the surveillance and care of all the animals of the country, no less or less.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u36	A respectable president. Thank you for your in-depth discussion. There have been killings on various sides of the case, but what I would like to say primarily, because it is absolutely possible, it is the duty of all of us to treat animals with respect. Another is a violation of the law. That's totally in the way. We are also a community that constantly reevaluates what's okay and what's not. We are a society that wants to take up the discussion of what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. In fact, more often than not, we increase our expectations and say that we want to do better now than we did in the past, etc., as well as in moral matters. We should have the strength to discuss it because it matters in itself, regardless of the laws on animal success that are always to be a law that requires respect. I will never stand here to speak lightly of an expensive success, never at all. I think it matters to me that I'm completely clear. On the other hand, we need to discuss whatever activity we may conduct in the country regarding certain aspects of moral values. That's the discussion I think it's important to take it here. I don't necessarily think it's time to consider the honor of individual institutions or individuals or professions who do their jobs properly. Rather, we need to be careful to discuss what is discussed here on this particular project, blood control. [[The president calls.]] We need to talk about whether it's part of what we want to do here. [[The president calls.]] I thank a respectable president for his patience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u37	A respectable president. We here vote on the box that will be all over the public affairs of the term. This frame does not agree with a government contract presented here with a popu and a pact after eight weeks of negotiations. This is not just the opinion of the senators in the memory of the section but the opinion of a financial body. According to one financial body, the harmony between a treaties and financial policies is literally lacking. It is clear from financial policy that the government's reporting business for the next few years is out of harmony with today's lawsuit. It is sailed under a false cry of well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u38	A respectable president. The financial and financial policies of the Federal Bank are at a time when the economic impacts of the epidemic are on hold, in order to maintain stability and balance in the economy. A maximum of 2% of GDP will be expected throughout the years, and the roof will be 51.5% at the end of the period, and then we will expect the increase in debt to stop. It is important not to fall into the temptation problem of making full use of the built - in uncertainty gap in the course of the policy in order to follow the baseline cautions that financial advises have stressed. The government has emphasized the importance of growing to prosperity. In the years that follow, there are opportunities to support the growth of production and economic growth. Arable investments are important for the country's future competition and to prepare future economic growth. We continue to invest in research and development, digital infrastructure, innovation and a good basic education. There are challenges ahead of time; the aging of the nation, the welfare, housing, and the inflation; the inflation, so to speak. [[The president calls.]] It is a joy, therefore, that this year's book is well - handled by the tourism services and offset the imported inflation. [[The president calls.]] It's bright ahead in Iceland. We've lost all the limits on Covid, and life is getting back to normal, which is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u39	A respectable president. I just want to thank you for your cooperation on the budget for the preparation and payment of this case at the end of the final turn and payment of financial policy for the next four years. The financial policy is a tool that is still in a particular way in the process of evolution. The financial policy we are now going to vote for is evidence that there is here to be a strong and solid hold on government funds that is extremely important to the economy and money policy in this country, which is building the well - being of this community. I believe that, and I trust that financialism, the plans there, will follow. On the other hand, we have experience with the possibility of something happening, and what has once happened can always happen again. I have strong conviction that the policy we vote for here is the basis for a strong society and a strong economy that builds a strong welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u40	President. We have an unsuspecting financial policy. This is a policy to try to fix it and reach the recovery to zero. That, according to this financial policy, means 120 billion on reduced expenses. There are things that happen spontaneously, such as less unemployment, very normal, and 80 billion in taxes, more tax returns from the government than has been part of GDP. This policy is to increase taxes and reduce expenses, in contrast to the last terms of which the policy was to increase expenses and reduce taxes. I find this interesting, because it's not exactly said in the policy but when you reach the point, it shows, as shown in an article we received from a budget today, and that's what we're paying votes for, less expenditures to 120 billion and more tax revenues of 80 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u41	A respectable president. When the government's financial policy is read, there is one thing that is completely shining through, and that is a lack of policy for the current financial administration, a lack of tax policy. There is a chapter called a tax policy, and I challenge the Senate to read that chapter. It's obvious there's no policy there. It is under government law that the secretary of finance should submit tax conferences for approval. She's not in financial policy. It's bright in Iceland, and now on Friday, hopefully the last of our heads will be due to the end of the Covid pandemic. It is obvious that the economy is bright ahead because of the strongness of Icelandic society. That is what will shape our economic policy. There are individuals in the community who will, not the government. All she says is, we're supposed to grow out of the crisis. But it is not the government that does. It's society that does. If you compare the government contract with the tax policy, you can't see that it's the same person who's behind both of these documents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u42	A respectable president. I'm glad we're at this point putting up financial policy for the terms of the season. This is important for the leading of the work currently being done in a financial program that will enter the council in over a month. In this policy, there is clear policy. It is about quitting the debt collection of state funds, restoring balance in the budget, building on strong tax stocks, and, yes, encouraging, stimulating, creating, doing what governments can do to restore the income lost in the epidemic. It is a good course, and it is true that this happens in the community. Indeed, it is our responsibility to ensure that circumstances will arise in order for people to enjoy their strength and that freedom can create something valuable for all. It can make a powerful contribution to a treasure of the Kingdom so that we can live up to our welfare. One thing we are seeing better and better in this work is that we need to keep leaving room for investment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The government is in an investment campaign, and we need to continue to do so. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u43	A respectable president. Today, we pay votes for financial policy, which includes the actual growth of budgets each year, in historical context, the level of government investments becomes very low in historical context. This policy, this document we are discussing today, will be referred to, and will be used to justify extreme spending during the years, and the policy that the State will bring in instead of the government and the public and our joint organizations, these democratic devices, will be used to achieve the challenges we face as a community. Of course we reject this financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u44	A respectable president. We, on re-resurrection, and I'll explain the vote below, sit by about the adjustment proposal and then vote against this financial policy because we think it's unrealistic. There is a series of hides about the future, and we agree with what the work community and others have been pointing out, that is, the responsibility for this financial policy to the next government, not on this government, but on the next government. The object is completely unrealistic. We agree that we need to grow out of the problem, allow society to grow. But there is nothing that goes beyond that government about how we are going to grow out of the problem when we are growing up in higher altitudes today, and we are especially doing something stronger that makes the export roads very difficult to help us out of our problems. Since these questions remain unsettled, we will say no to this financial policy and agree with what has been suggested, that is, to the next governments and the next generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u45	President. I want to make it clear that I agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir says here. We're rejecting this financial policy. We're sitting by to make some changes. The problem with this financial policy is exactly, as we have seen, that there is no policy. According to the government law, there should be a income and pay policy. As you read between the lines, it is saying that the government is going to increase its income by 80 billion, but it does not explain how. It is said that the government will cut down about 120 billion, but it does not explain how. It should be very clear how this will be done. I'm just hoping that it will be done in the budget, which will be in over a month's time, but somehow I doubt it. It is the purpose of financial policy that the government explain how they're going to establish their budget and income throughout the terms of the term, in a gross way. Instead, they are not explained, and they need to be read between the lines what it really means. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u46	A respectable president. True, during our trip, we have encouraged the government to be quick when it comes to standing for grants, especially for small and medium-sized companies here in the community. However, we cannot support, as shown in this overall change of motion, the government's plans to carry on with the work. Resurrected was the only group before the election that pointed out that a larger picture was needed, we were the only group that did it. We feel that the more this project costs, the more priority it can be, the more it will be. There's a demand for traders. After a collapse, we were defending traders. There are other circumstances here today. We feel that it is responsible to prioritize government funds in another way. We've pointed out a number of ways, you can pay off the debt of state funds. Psychological services can be fully completed, but this has not been the government's choice. That's why we're past this transition. We support part of it, but we oppose other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u47	Madam President. On behalf of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, I recommend a panel of committees on billing a change in financial support laws to a smaller host due to a pandemic crowning virus, or continuation of shut-down practices. The bill suggests an extended period of closure to June 30, 2022. In addition, several minor changes are proposed due to the time since the implementation of the law and the acceptance of other laws. The grantings are in addition to treeback grants and are reinforced by the law on the grant to the operators of restaurants that have suffered the limitations of opening hours. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by the visitors mentioned in the interview, and reviews were received from Iceland's employment drivers' partner and business council. There's a nominee in front of you. According to the Committee's Review Committee, some operators have considered the tax and taxation committees to provide a comprehensive assessment of which operators are considered to meet the requirements for financial support to less management because of a pandemic of Korean virus. Drivers who felt that they could not help but close or accept the instructions of the competent authority are appropriate to have received a confirmation of their application. In view of the greater part, it is required that an event should arise where there is a doubt as to whether the operator meets the criteria for support. It is important that the health authorities consider that all control measures for preventing disease prevention are as clear as possible and that they are endeavoring to limit the level of rightfulness that may result in it. However, close concentrations take into account the nature of the case only when the operator has been directly shut down or stopped. Other instruments, such as motorists and sponsors to the network of restaurants that have been put to the limit of their activities, have been aimed at dealing with the other limitations of the operators. By extension of requisition grants, as reflected in the 291st case, as provided by the Economic and Business Committee for 2nd. at the end of the case, operators will have been able to apply for grants due to loss of income from April 1, 2020 to April 1, 2022. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that there is only one technical change and does not require any special coverage. The majority of the section leads to a further discussion. Madam President. According to the above, a greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee is responsible for the approval of the bill by the change proposed in the Committee. Under the opinion of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee literature, as well as the above, why. Councilmen Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Chairman of Mist Einarsdóttir Mistir, Einarsson, Hafdís Hafsteinsdóttir, and Eva Dögg, the daughter of Davíðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u48	A respectable president. I thought it'd be right to come up here and say that we're in Porta's team to support this case, so we'll vote for it. We don't have the Committee of the greater part, just because we'd like to set a much clearer requirement for a company to have the right to lock up grants, certain fences to ensure better tax use, and to ensure that companies that potentially resulting in violations of collective agreements to employees or to provide CC reports of national property or anything like that, as discussed earlier, do not have such tax access. On the other hand, I believe these are important counter measures and important measures to meet those enterprises which had to be directly closed by the government's actions. As a result, I do not comment that this is the way the government is going. But I'm not part of the committee's opinion because I would have gone another way. I just wanted to make this right because I think it's important that it turns out that we're not on the committee opinion doesn't necessarily mean that we don't support the case. We would've done this a little differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u49	A respectable president. As members of the United States Congress, we support this case and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u50	Madam President. On behalf of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, I recommend a committee study on the bill to correct the transition to the SRC law, No. 160/2020, continuation of boxing. The bill suggests the extension of a post-requisite form of pricing, as laid down by the retroviral season, from December 2021 to March 2022, but a minor change in the extension of application deadlines for the past periods is also proposed. The committee discussed the matter and met with the visitors outlined in the opinion and eight reviews of the European Union of Iceland, the employment drivers' partner, the Icelandic music team, KPMG Law, a group of privateists and small companies in tourism, the Association of Employment Services and the Iceland Business Council. There's a nominee in front of you. As suggested by the committee committee committees, it was noted that April had been the lowest exact month of travel services during the past few years. Thus, there may be improvements in extending the resources for April to cover the gap until the outlook on this article improves. The majority of the committee points out that the impact of the epidemic has been reduced and that the limitations due to the epidemic are expected to be lifted sooner than expected. This has proved true, but today the government declared that the limits of Friday will be lifted. In view of this, the greater part felt that there was no basis for extending the volume of resistance beyond what is suggested in the bill. It was also stated by the Committee that at the beginning of the 2022, various companies who had the right to obtain support according to current laws have become aware that application deadlines have passed and have been forced to apply for strength. In this regard the Committee was made aware that the application procedure and the data collection involved might be less successful for the operators, i.e. EICs generally provide accounting data every year through external assistance. In that case, it might be that the operators could have confused the closure grant criteria with some form of resistance. Thus, when the operators actually did, they did not think that they met the requirements of resistance. With law No. 2/2022 was an application deadline for maintenance strength due to November extension to March 1, 2022. Initial application time for requisition strength, i.e. 31 December 2021, the duration of the European Commission's framework for supporting the economy due to the current Covid global epidemic, from 19 March 2020, which was in force in the implementation of the law. With the Commission's message from November 18, 2021, the length of the frame extended to June 30, 2022. The views behind the extension of an application were the same as those previously traced. A greater part of the report shows that the objective of the strengthening efforts under a pandemic crown virus is including the following: to support those companies who have been in real business problems. This was thoroughly presented and application instructions were published on the tax website. However, the majority believe that application deadlines due to the last month of 2021 were too short, which may have been the cause of business management that has been entitled to use the resource, including the In view of the need for operators at that time to take broad measures due to the decision of the health authorities. Therefore, the majority suggest that the application deadline due to August 2021 to November 2021 is limited to 30 June 2022, according to the application deadline for the month between December 2021 and March 2022. The change will affect the cost of the state fund of the procedure for upcoming, but in the case of applications that have not returned to the tax there is no additional information on the effect. Madam President. According to the above, more part of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the change proposed in the Committee, i.e. that the application for maintenance grants due to August 2021 to March 2022 should be submitted no later than 30 June 2022. Under the opinion of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee literature, as well as the above, why. Councilmen Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir; Hafdís Mitst Hrönn; Hafsteinsdóttir; Harnstein's daughter; and Eva, Dögg, the daughter of Davíðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. I'm wondering two things. I'll come up with our disagreement on this matter later in speech, but first, I want to ask why. A senator into the delays that have caused this bill to finally become a law. On January 17 we had to quickly issue a bill to allow companies to postpone our public expenses, as we did. By then it had been clear from the beginning of December that many companies' positions were quite bad and that much action would have to be taken as soon as possible. Now that we are deep in February, it has been weeks and several months since, and I wondered if so. A senator has received some explanation in the matter of such a terrible delay. Why did we have to wait so long to get the resources that the company has called out to get help with the business over the last item? Has a what? A senator was given some explanation from the Ministry, from the Minister? I remember that, for example. that there was to measure this matter three weeks ago, which could have enabled us to complete it for last week's election week, while the minister of finance decided, without any explanation, not to measure the case until after a weekend. This meant that the committee we are in and want to work hard was made impossible to finish the case for an elected week, thereby delaying it to an even greater extent than necessary. So the question is twofold: Why did we have to wait from December until now for this long period of time? But also: has a why. A senator received some explanation as to why a minister of finance simply allowed matters to be cleared up as he could.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u52	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the inquiry. This is one of the sponsorships that have been discussed and treated by the Economic and Business Committee. I can, to some extent, agree that we all want to see these things happen fast, but they need to be done well, and it needs to be done well. We've been, like, whisk. A senator knows very well, working hard on these matters as well as others, calling for members of the committee to hear their sounds and hear the views they present, possibly to improve this process, which we actually know very well, and to include in the discussion to improve the situation and to improve it. It's certainly taken some time, but I'm glad it's been presented here. I repeat, though I say, that, of course, things can always be done better. With the second question, I have no explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just wanted to keep it good at what you're doing. The Economic and Business Committee has won this case fast and in fact at a record rate. There's nothing easy about it, and there's nothing natural about us finishing it in one week on a committee or in one day as we did the other day. It is a form of disrespect for the council to turn matters in late that we have little time for them to be won. According to this, I feel that the committee was completely successful, although I do not agree with her decision, i.e. the majority of the committee. It's this kick from December to put out a case that's basically the same thing as before and I just don't understand why such a long time had to pass, I just don't get it. But all right, I'm fine with that. The other is the question of step change. Now it has been pointed out very clearly that this wall, 40% income loss, does not get access to these sponsors, can be an unnecessary barrier to enterprises that may have been exposed to 39.9% of revenues for which we know that is exactly the same number that has been requested for. There has been a request for some sort of step change, perhaps a smaller amount if the income is 20% etc. That's why I want to be curious about what. A senator as to whether these requests of the narrative were discussed in the greater part. And if they were discussed, why was it decided not to increase the flexibility of companies that had certainly been damaged but perhaps not exactly 40.0%?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that, as I mentioned in my first response, we have been discussing the funds and the criteria for all the available resources, and this is no exception. However, the committee's opinion shows that this may be the means by which most have benefited. During the course of his life, the volume paid for suspenses of 1,250 million. K. The number of drivers has declined rapidly since summer to 1330. I would like to answer that although we are all willing to do in the greater part of the committee to try to seize as many people as possible, all of us can never be caught. We only agree with the data and the figures that this is the very solution to the vast majority of themes. We heard from the people who came to our meetings, and that shows the evidence that this standard is taking over the majority of the available resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u55	Madam President. In the paper of this bill, which we're about to take care of as soon as possible after a considerable weight, there will be some. so that governments cannot support the job life, they can prevent the production of enterprises and intermediate articles. It's like this in a good way with analysis that's been left behind for a travel agency, for example. of KPMG, which highlights the need for integration in tourism in the coming years. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with this analysis, whether he feels that the need for companies to reduce the number of travel services and whether they consider themselves desirable to work directly, is it really what they have to say in the bill's report?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. If I understood the question correctly, it's in the way of whether the person here supports further compression within tourism companies. I think there may be an answer in that way that I think it is very important that the companies who are engaged in a viable business can run themselves. I don't think it's the course of a grappling, as well as other gradations, that individual companies fail to resist the process, and it's even gonna happen after this epidemic is over. That's exactly why we've got all these resources in place, trying to catch those people who have found the most important blow in the last two years. On the contrary, I can say with the tourism department that there are rural societies and that they are inhabited throughout the country that are highly dependent on tourism and employment in that country, and I think it's very desirable for those companies to do this by themselves. But this is how complete we are by means of these actions, trying to catch those who are in trouble. I think that's gonna answer that question very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u57	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. What do you think? A senator of the concerns observed among the guests who came to a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee because it was actually systematically, with a great delay in this last wave of Covid, which she hopefully is, were trying to force a measure of transport compression with, e.g. with reference to these words in a report, to the analysis that has been removed for a travel agency? Has a what? A senator understands that this is a feeling for people in this article, a smaller host of tourism who have been waiting a long time for support and had to wait for many months for general management grants in different neighboring countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I can't quite figure out where he's going, but I'm rejecting that the government is working to reduce the number of tourism companies. However, in my first reply, I said that this was something we knew and had done before when tragedy broke, that there is going to be compression. This will likely be a convergence in this article as well as in others. But I reiterate what I said in my first reply: We have all these resources to try to catch those who have felt the most impact in the last two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u59	Madam President. I speak here on behalf of my share of the Economic and Business Committee. As we stand at the committee's party of my part, I, Thorhilda Sunna Ævarsdóttir, Senator Pirata, and why. paritaprevir Loveth Loa Þórsdóttir from the Gang of the People. As we noted earlier, the coverage and payment of this and other similar issues have become extreme and unexplained. Of course, for the big, bossy companies, it doesn't matter. While they have easy access to the amount of loans, they can be bitten on small companies, especially on the smallest. This is especially true in travel services and related articles, articles that have been hit the most by a pandemic. This delay, as well as the words that have been made in the analysiss that are subsidiary for the government and in this bill's report, raises the question of whether it is an unanticipated policy of this government to drive a contract in travel services, thus allowing companies to shrink and manufacturing factors to move on the hands of the largest companies and out of the article. If that's the case, then it's just to be said out loud. Let us look back in the analysis that KPMG was working for a travel agency in 2020. It shows that it is in the best interests of tourism that fewer and larger communities are being restored to produce and to make more money. Another analysis of which the same company worked for a travel agency today in December 2021 claims that there is a need for reorganization of companies and integration in the next year's article. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs has refused in the Parliament that it is the government's will that companies and staff be reduced. It is certainly not our policy, he said on February 7, 2022, and we heard similar responses in the past. In fact, a senator may have viewed it as inevitable that there would be a degree of compression, perhaps a viewpoint. But as was also attributed, it is quite clear in this bill's report and in the reports of more primes that the government must not support the work environment to prevent the production of enterprises and branches. At the top of the Economic and Business Commission, guests were concerned that it might just be their government's focused policy to reduce the number of companies in travel services and to make it easier for the largest companies to buy up smaller ones. In our memory, these concerns seem understandable, including In view of the very strong interest ties between the two cabinet ministers of this government and two of the largest tourism companies in the country and the tremendous national support these largest companies have ever enjoyed in a pandemic. In the memory of the section, we suggest some changes in the bill, changes aimed both at reaching more enterprises, which have been damaged by the crown virus, and to ensure that financial support is on the verge of promoting a healthy labour market, which is directed to companies that follow the laws and rules. First, we suggest that a change in the definition of income be made in order to make money for a company to be able to gain financial support because of capitalism rather than subsidies in selling goods and services. This is in accordance with indications that have been presented in Iceland's German Federations now and previously in the Indriði H. Þorláksson, former tax managers, the legislation on the level of resistance at the time of their first appearance. Second, we suggest that income loss criteria from the beginning of 2022 will be reduced from 40% to 30%. We are doing this, taking into account the increase in prices from the reference period without increasing the misunderstanding in the implementation of taxation. Is that in harmony with viewpoints that may include? and the review of professional society and the reviews of tourism, the Association of Employment and the Coalition of Lonely and small companies for tourism. Third, we suggest that the law also adds a very definitive requirement for enterprises which are supported by the bill of tax contributions and its data, including a report on the ownership of the CFC society,b. 10th par. Directives on taxation due to the maintenance of low tax areas. In the past, the EEA has proposed less options to rule out individuals and companies using tax cover and decontinents from state funds for a pandemic crown virus, but we in the smaller part have the hope that the administrative sector will take at least under the minimum requirement for privatizers who have enterprises in the low taxes area, CCS have been submitted according to the law. Fourth, we suggest that application deadlines be extended to 30 June 2022 and set up the period of March 2021 to March 2022. This brings us to the point where short application deadlines have been bitten on small companies that do not have the strength to control as much as the larger ones when it comes to accounting. In this connection, it must be noted that the implementation of income loss and closure equipment was applied for a specific period, but not every month as in the implementation of boxing. This has caused some confusion, and making room for the application period makes it normal for us to deal with it. Fifth and final, we suggest that companies who become sources of reimbursement or other employment frauds will be reimbursed. According to that, we suggest that this bill be approved by the changes I've gone over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u60	There's not been much else on the agenda of the Economic and Business Committee at this council but it's sponsored and successful, because they need assistance to survive in a pandemic. However, there are companies who have served a fine object from a table and there are small companies in travel services. You might even think that the government sees it as his job to provide for tourism by supporting large companies rather than leaving them their little ships to sea. If there's a market intervention, this is it. Because it is less than the role of the government in this way than in the market. Nevertheless, the fact is that help has been received to small companies in travel services both late and poorly. According to a group of monogamists and small tourism companies, things take way too long. These companies, which are often not expelled from families and do not usually have large funds, are in serious trouble, and even are entering their children's savings, confident that soon some government help and better time will come. This is not a company that built a doortrack over the back because that company has long since fallen. They're highly fired companies who would have blossomed if it hadn't been a pandemic. They are truly viable, even though they may not be facing this long - standing ordeal that has lasted over two years. This company is now finding itself in what is called English, by permission of president, the cock-22 position. They have had little or even no income for far too long and cannot continue without assistance. Debates are beginning to grow substantially, properties are being burned up, so pay cannot be paid and, although it is tried to maintain employment relations with employees, it has not always worked and/or will not succeed at the next month's conventions. The summer, however, looks good, but without assistance many of these companies will not be able to take the necessary steps, let alone hire people, and may even be planning more information. It is good and right to support an enterprise, but it also needs to be supportive of smaller ones and even expelled from families in their home. Just as family business has not been performed, neither have the homes of the country been cared for. I just want to talk about their issues because this country is built, not by companies, but by homes. And nothing has been discussed in the Economic and Business Committee. So I'm gonna take this opportunity here. Homes are left to sea, and no matter how large the boat yields, they should just keep rowing and get at most a wrinkled bucket to draw along, which nothing but delay the inevitable. In an article written in April 2020 by President Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of VR, we are all in the same boat, which says: ▪ The way we rise up out of the challenges ahead, depends on what we do today, and that is why the priorities of the government and their priorities are immensely important. Will the government assign lifebelts and space to the lifeboat, or will the government place the nightmares in a weak hope that the banks will save them from drowning? Or maybe they'll get the same snooze of sputum as last time? Shortly thereafter, the headline for the Banks is to be in the same boat as the rest of us, followed by the following, by permission of the president: ▪ The current government is under obligation to protect homes and to put their interests ahead of financial interests. It is not a law that when the economy is breaking down, as it is now, the banks can just wait with their mouths open for their companies and homes to fit into them, as experience has shown. If we are all in the same boat, the banks need to be in it too. These are the most successful companies in the country, and have profited from nearly 700 billion since the collapse of the last year -- it was then, now it is more than 1,000 -- and they, along with the pensions, can carry a loss better than anyone else in Iceland. The important thing is that most companies can rise up as soon as they come, and it is important that they do not have a burdensome baloney on their backs. Then no one will benefit from being in the hands of the bank or under the mercy of the bank with whether they live or die, for it became clear after the collapse of the banks that they cannot be trusted with that responsibility. The same can be said of homes. If tens of thousands of homes began to fall, as if after a collapse, who would benefit from this loss? Where should all that people go? Are they supposed to start more Gamma tenants? Have we not experienced this with dire results? The point is, everyone is about to lose, and the banks aren't supposed to be immune, because they should be in the same boat as the rest of us. It turns out that our concern over how the government would protect their homes was not taken out of the open. Nothing has been done for the homes. Once again, they are viewed as just a tiny pawn in the Matadori market, or perhaps it would be more true to say his gambling. Vasculitis rises and increases, but the index joint should not even be removed. In order to be fair, the head of the Agency yesterday mentioned that this was to be done. To him, I'd like to say they should be the slow drop of his home as Minister of the Government and the chairman of one of the government classes. I'll be happy when I see it become reality and bear it to the highest degree. The minister says that my bill and the people's Flocks will be taken out of the index number 1. During the council, and expect his support from them. Banks have not been demanded to reduce their profits, which are completely out of the map, as their profits clearly testify. The Kingdom has one bank and a great share in another. Banks need to be demanded to show social responsibility and to lower their interest laws, for their profit shows that they can in no way justify raising the budget for their customers. All the homes have been offered is to make use of their special property savings. In other words, the homes are invited to use their own money. Money that's supposed to be older and that's not eligible, so let's go on the wrong track. So if the individual is on the wrong track, he can lose both his home and what he has set aside in the years. And not only that, but when contained, tax from the special property savings is also needed. There may be nothing wrong with the tax treatment, or at least Other discussions, however, have thus brought no expense to homes, but to profit from the tax pay of the special property. Let's compare this with the companies. Their contributions come directly from the treasure of the Kingdom; they pay no taxes from them; they even pay their wages, as mentioned, after receiving assistance. I'm not sorry for the help of the companies, but I'd like to remind them that their homes also need to be looked at and protected from the consequences of a pandemic, but it's not done at all. Of course, there is a good way to assist companies in the homes they visit or at their jobs. But I'm not even asking for direct contributions from the state funds to the homes. I'm asking for protection. Valuable growth and growth in homes are as heavy as a business, and there has been nothing to do with it, while banks profit as never before but are growing in homes many of which are fighting in the banks and in these circumstances growths are increasing, thus increasing the flow of funds to the banks as though they have not yet received enough. All of this, of course, is under the premise that it is being fought against inflation. But that argument is by no means possible, for the price of the land is not because of the expansion, so it cannot be restored with increasing interest. The increase in housing costs is much worse for homes than for store prices. The problem of housing markets is not for normal families, and it is inexplicable to allow years to interfere with people who are not in real estate. Increase in interest is nothing more than a marvelous possession from the people to the banks. There is no way to justify an enterprise with billions of profits raising the blame for its customers. In short, it is time for the Navy, the government, locals, and others who have screwed up, to take responsibility for their own mess, and to clean up their own shit without rolling over to their homes. This isn't working anymore. The government still floats asleep in death and does not appear to be aware of the context of things, e.g. how a heart-to-heart conversation will be done in the fall, there will be nothing to protect homes from the prece majeure state produced by the pandemic of Covid-19. The action that would have to be done is neither complicated nor expensive. The government has three main measures to take. She needs to take the staff from the index, demand the banks to give her community responsibilities and freeze insurance on loans and rents for at least 1 year. Let us consider some of the reasons and implications of these simple measures: 1st Remove the staff from the index. Inflation is 5.7% but without housing, it would be 3.7%. With this simple operation, the inflation and its protrusion would have a chain effect, such as. rising rent prices and interest. 2. Refuse banks to show community responsibilities, i.e. reduces the growth and charge of customers and reduces the interest requirements. 3. Fristy insurance on loans and renting all this year. Its bill is for the treatment of the WHO and Business Committee. It is normal for both banks and landlords to not be the sole exception to a drop in income due to the results of a pandemic and the abnormal benefit of the situation. Homes, especially rent markets, do not depend on these increases. This is the very least that can be done to protect the families. Only these simple measures would soften the beatings and difficulties of the homes, thereby helping with the harrowing talks that are difficult enough to deal with. With the permission of a president, will I please read the conclusion of our earlier article Ragnar Þór, ◯ Are we all in the same boat? ▪ We who have either lived through the first threats to domestic loss and then lost our home or have been in contact with those who have gone through this miserable and difficult process, know how extreme pressures come and that many have already lost their health. [...] Should we not unite that when it comes to seeing the sun, every business and every home will wake up to a new life and continue without sitting up with a heavy bag as a penalty for something they had nothing to say and could do? Let's provide shelter for the homes and finance under a safe roof, and let's all be together in the same boat. So many were used in 2020, and they still stand totally for their own day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I had to come up here because of the words she said about her special property. That matter is a little close to me, and I've watched with great interest how much the government is working to allow citizens to borrow from themselves, loans in their future, and how much that operation adds to inequities. We are watching people who own property, who own property, which they can then pay their special savings on tax-free and thus reduce their loans, thus obtain a considerable amount of money from this to more property in their property and without paying taxes on it. Then we have people who do not have possessions that we know are largely the people who suffered the worst from this epidemic, and they are able to take out their savings and pay taxes. There's a huge difference between us. It's an incredible injustice, I think. They are people who really have nothing but to search for but to walk on their life savings, have to pay for that tax, and receive no other kind of government support. I just wanted to come up here to thank you. A senator for bringing this man into this discussion. It is a persistent theme that, when it comes to companies and funding them, the conditions are extremely few and limited, but when it comes to individuals, the help they offer seems simply to contribute to Iceland's roughness. I'm asking why. A senator agrees with me in my analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u62	President. Yeah, I totally agree with this diagnosis. The solutions that have been available for homes are, in fact, no solutions. After a collapse, these so - called solutions really did nothing but advance to the snare, did nothing else, and even led to a worse situation than they had been. In terms of my special savings, I often get angry when it is spoken of as a solution. This is not a solution. Both of us are to be able to pay for our housing and to gather for the elderly. It is possible for people in countries we compare with ourselves to. It's also supposed to be slow here. But that is not available. We're supposed to use the special kicker. The banks must never be asked to turn down anything from their own interests, from interest requirements, from interest to interest, or from anything, but we will be helped to live up to the demands of those we pay anyway. We get the best way to take out our own money to pay for the pits that are there. This doesn't make any sense. If, as I mentioned, people get so caught that they're not even good enough - people try everything but may eventually lose their home - they're even worse off than before. We all know it's no fun being old in Iceland if you owe a lot of money in your house or rent a rent. It's something that doesn't work out. The solutions you can go into for homes not even cost you anything, as I say. The only thing that could happen is that banks would not make as much money as any cost, no expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u63	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I'm particularly concerned about this group that has no property and is forced to pay for their daily expenses, in order to take out its special property. I bring this up because I read a lot of attention to the election's a very good record from ASI on the Covid actions of the government and inequities. As a result, I concluded that the government had failed the most aggressive group in the epidemic. They are low - paying people, they are immigrants, they are desperate, elderly, and people who were in a poor position for the epidemic. We know that those who lost their jobs in the epidemic had a substantially lower average wage than they did in Iceland, 26◯30% less pay than the average pay in Iceland. People already had very low incomes. Then they fell heavily on unemployment records. This is the group the government says to: "Hey, if you've gotten ahold of any special property savings, you can hit him now. It is the group that does not have a home, does not have a mortgage to pump in the special savings and does not have access to the financial resources. I just haven't seen anything have been done for this group unless perhaps possibly raising unemployment rates slightly. To make matters worse, it was made perfectly clear that if people did not take any kind of work, away from whether they were suitable for people, their jobs, their education, they would lose their unemployment. This was made clear by the gracious government that sits here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u64	President. Yes, it is natural for those who have at least always been the worst. They do not have a table to deal with when trauma strikes. We in The Gang of the People have come in many times because there are people who don't have knives and spoons. All the increases, no matter what their nature, are extremely negative to that group. I have provided a bill on a roof on insurance policy for one year, both on loans and on rent, and that is to face the worst of all. Only those who are at the worst of their credit are in debt, and only renters are even worse off than those who have been able to buy houses with insured loans. They're people who have nothing to do with their hands. It's about every one of those thousands. Even tens of thousands have already been raised by tens of thousands of rents, with tens of thousands of rents rising by 30,000 dollars. Already. It's money that doesn't exist in these homes, it just doesn't exist. And what is to happen to these people? We have to think about this. This does not mean that we have more respect for the profits of the banks, or what they call, than the survival of people, than that people have enough to take a knife. It's not okay. We must go to the rotors, and it is not necessarily to help us pay more to the banks but to order the banks to lower interest. It is the root of all of this, and we would be in good business, or quite good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u65	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here for a moment to discuss the options we're discussing today, the lock-and-tance strength. The discussion had now become just another psalm, although it was certainly needed. But I wanted to say something with a story. The vice president of the Committee, thanking the entire Commission for their cooperation. I agree with what. Ævarsdóttir I thank you for your cooperation. And then I wanted to maintain one point of view which is that the resources we're discussing today, so-called lock-and-mouth strength, financial support of any kind, are kind of compensation. These are improvements for companies who have suffered damage and certainly suffered damage because of government action. To accept this strength or improvement, they need to be able to show that they have been harmed. That's what I wanted to celebrate today, not to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u66	A respectable president. We'll discuss some of the measures that have been badly affected by Covid. The situation is that many of these enterprises have come forward and have no time to lose so as not to be bad. The Economic and Business Committee has received representatives from among these enterprises, which describe the situation and ask that the council not pull their feet in these important matters, but that they will finish quickly and certainly be able to start working on the headlines and make the long - awaited grants. The station describes many of these enterprises as having reached the limit of tolerability, and they cannot be able to pay off at the next month's conventions. Some of these enterprises are postponing people instead of recruiting to meet the existing demand for the coming summer. We cannot, a respectable president, let it happen that these individuals and these companies have achieved this far in the difficult situations that the epidemic has created on the last record, with related damage to the partner and society they belong to. We want to be able to offer good service in all areas of the earth and to have the opportunity to be there for those who can perform the desired service. I spoke up in a discussion about budgeting for 2022 that it was wise to keep holding up some form of resistance, as it has been during the day that it was necessary. So I've written down the opinion of more than one part of it with these anticipated grants, since I believe it is absolutely necessary for the council to complete this matter. A respectable president. It has also come to my ears that the men wearing coats with a briefcase are now riding through the provinces and asking to buy companies from people in need. I don't think we should let that happen. It'll have to be stopped. We have an interest in all countries that have been involved in the development of agricultural changes that take place in our country where projects such as agriculture are contracting. These people have been able to share in important innovations in creating all kinds of service options throughout the country, and they deserve that we will not let them sink when they reach the docks. I'm gonna support you, Mr President, that we're gonna finish this and we're gonna encourage us to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u67	A respectable president. I'll sign the minority opinion of the Economic and Business Committee and what to do with it. The members of the council of Ásthildur, Þórsdóttir, and Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson. Hv. A member of the committee, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, did well to review the adjustments and comments we make so that I simply wanted to come up to make some adjustments. I spoke it up against the majority opinion of the transporter man and why. The vice form of the Economic and Business Committee that I didn't quite understand why it would have taken so long to bring up an extension of the existing resources and, in fact, not to change any subject. We are talking about four months when it began to extend previously existing measures in all aspects unchanged in the form it is presented. There are no changes to this bill. In fact, all it had to do was copy and tape and send it off to the council. That's why I'm kept in mind how to keep it from December 10, when it came to the highest level. The secretary of finance put it in the news that he knew that the companies could not hold for provisions until two weeks ago when we received this bill on our table. In fact, the ass was so small to the highest. A minister could indulge in the matter when it was scheduled, without any explanation, waiting until a weekend. This meant that in order for a financial and business committee to win the case professionally, it had to be predicted to delay it by two weeks, because we had two committees on course and then it was a ballot ahead and it would not have been professional to plan on winning the case in three days, a respectable president. Then we wouldn't have had any comments. Then we couldn't have won this business professionally. So the unexplained absence of a financial minister caused this matter to delay for two more weeks in addition to two months, and I still have not understood why this case was not before. This is part of the argument that prepares the statement that we make in our minor aluminium; that these catch most of the small enterprises which do not have access to loans, which are not easily able to get over the hair, which have been telling us week after week that they are absolutely failing to keep working. And so I'll agree with what. A senator who spoke before has also heard stories of larger people walking around trying to buy smaller ones who are harder to defend if they don't know if any help is expected or not. However, we would point to a few examples that if we are going to put this in a practical way without directly saying it, it is an unspoken policy of the government to allow some kind of size management. From December 10, we are now at the close of February: Why did this take so long? We haven't had any explanations of what was so complicated about sending this bill just to the council. None. It could have been finished by Christmas, a respectable president. It's no big deal finishing up by Christmas. There's a lot of stuff under there. Second, I wanted to talk only about the conditions. I can totally see the viewpoint here that corporate improvements are being made, like, right now. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir came in earlier. This does not change the amount of money that is being set aside from the public funds of the country. I think it is minimal that those who receive this money can show that they are paying all dues and conform to all the laws and regulations. There are, indeed, minimal requirements for individuals who receive some kind of financial support from the State. It must be the minimum requirement that the operators can accept that if they did not pass a CFC report, they will be reimbursed to receive their penance, that they will submit a legal report and if they do not, they will have to reimburse a federal grant. If this were a mere serious compensation in the sense that this is an injury and is being paid for it, we would not be in the difficulty of having to get permission from EFTA and something like that in order to pay them off. This is government support for a company. That's the definition. So to him, there should be a natural and self-recognizable condition that, first of all, the person's sums up everything and second, that they are not violating the basic rights of the people working in that company. I just think it's minimal demands, a respectable president. I wanted to make sure the importance of being put in there. A respectable president. That was all I had for now. I just wanted to come by and see that I'm sorry that these companies don't have minimum standards for this government support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdósdótir for this trial as well as for very good cooperation on the committee during the treatment of this case. Hv. A senator reviewed some facts and a certain garment, if I may say so. I want to do the same. Of course, we should put our hands around these smaller companies. This is the spine in our community, towards the smaller companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, reach the cleaning point here. Like what? paritaprevir Einarsson pointed out that the suit - dressed men are traveling through my district of South Spain, trying to buy people who are already finished, have reached the limit of endurance. I don't have a clue why it didn't happen on January 17th. Now that we're reviewing the facts, we met on January 17th after finishing the budget that took up almost all our time during the December convention. That's what I think it's important that we finish this thing. I hope we're on our way out of this epidemic, and I think it's important that we finish it quickly and safely, as we've talked many times. For a long time, we can ask ourselves, " Why didn't this happen before and why is it happening now, not three weeks ago or a month ago? ' We're not changing it now. We need to finish this and put this through the council so that we can continue to get these sponsors out to the companies most in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that the partnership has been successful with the Committee. I have felt that the committee is doing this work very fast and well, as I have previously said in this public address. What I criticized was that in early December this reaction was needed and that, in fact, it was reimbursed that the bill has previously been delivered here waited for at least One and a half months, a case we could have handled before Christmas. Why do I say that? Because all aspects of this are comparable to other matters that have already been resolved by the council. There is no need to spend too much time on such matters while it is relatively undisputed. V.E.G. The minister of finance appeared in the beginning of December and said: "Hey, yeah, it's amazing what he's going to do - and then he's going to do nothing at the time he's got. Since then, more of the council, just like this, has the authority to call a council together before January 17. There is no sacred date that can't be mixed up and some sort of formality, a respectable president, that can't be met sooner or no sooner. People were in such a hurry that they wanted to have their time off to January 17th. It was about December 10th, when it was the highest. Secretary of finance spoke of the need for action. So who is responsible for implementing things? And who is unspoken a course behind waiting for two months to provide a bill that is in all aspects like the rest of it, comparable to a bill that simply passes the four months when it is really no problem for bigger companies to wait off so hard, but it can be more fatal for the smaller ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. For the answer, a senator agrees with many things. The application deadline for the interview was last December 31st. Now I do not entirely explain within the Ministry why this was presented on February 1 rather than on January 1. But if I were to consider why there might be something that I might consider. I don't have the answers I know why. A senator is looking for something, but I don't think it's important that we're extending the discussion much more and we're going to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u71	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has nothing to worry about, this matter is over in his discussion today, and he is making a vote tomorrow and will thus be a law, and I have little to say but take part in the discussions here in 2nd. Um., which is the largest field of senators to discuss important matters. I'm not worried about this case coming out tomorrow. I see no sign of anything else, away from how many I answer. The members of the council, or even many talks, here in this public address. It doesn't make any difference that there'll be a vote on this here tomorrow, and I don't doubt that this will even be the law tomorrow, I know the highest. The President of the Generals is correct. At least I think it's very likely, considering that tomorrow's the last day of the week to make a legal case. Hv. A senator spoke of her not having the answers I was looking for. All right. Hv. A senator may have a slightly easier access, we should say thinking at the top. Secretary of finance to drag his feet like this, but I do. As a result, I ask. Councilmen to see if they have received any explanation because it seems quite natural for me to ask members of the House to ask why they are drawing their feet with a case that should in itself be wonderfully easy to finish at the right time. Anaben may be used with a slight forethought in the legislation and an extended plan, although it has not expired. We could have cleaned this up in December, though the deadline for the process of discharge had not come out, it's no problem. What helped us to survive in December was EFTA's permission for government assistance. There was nothing to prevent this issue from being resolved in December. The question remains, it obviously will not be answered here, but everything is fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u72	A respectable president. We're having a little chat here. In the past, I began to think of the government's sponsorship. There's good response to companies that have gone bad out of the Covid epidemic but, of course, they don't apply to companies that use tax belts and societies. They are not to be supported by a pandemic crown virus. So I started speaking, but then I began to think: strong, what is the wealth of the state to strengthen, and what does it feel it is necessary to talk about strength, strength of wood, strength of all sorts, and not? Of course, if the government is willing to strengthen an enterprise in various ways, the next issue is to strengthen the worst financially by increasing the figure that has not been paid and should be nearly twice as high as it is today if it were given. It also requires that the child - child and growth reform system be firmly established so that it serves its purpose to lose weight with families. There is also a lack of the government's strong hand with financial resources that strengthens to eliminate chain-based revenues and revenues in the social security system. A group of people strongly object to this lack of policy in government funding, which leads them to the worst. Sadly, the government does not seem to abandon this miserable course but seems to add even more to the difference. They feel that equality is not being maintained in the government's funding issues and that it cannot be found how to strengthen those who have suffered massive failures in recent decades. Where is the government's funding policy on dealing with difficult housing conditions? Real housing increases and is now in historical heights and has increased far beyond the income of young people and will make growth impossible for the first buyers to get into a housing market. Where's the big increase in housing? Is it not in the hands of the government and in the process of a committee? No, of course not. Sadly, tenants are completely exposed to unprecedented increases in rent prices. Drug levels need to be increased so that the most severe medication can be released. In order to be sufficient for someone in need and to be able to buy a car that is needed to get it to its destination, the car's strengths must be increased. Public insurance gas levels need to be increased according to the pay sheet to cover large increases in gas prices. It is essential that large increases in rent prices be taken immediately and if possible, reimburse the rent so that rent allowances rise so that no one will pay more than 201⁄220% of their provisional items in rent or payment of housing. [[The president calls.]] It is the government that has the support system on its heels, and it is far from fulfilling promises made before the last election. The people's party believe that the government's policy on these funding is not in any way meeting their worst needs in Icelandic society. Since there is no excess in funding for those who do not, the only way in which this group is to harden the water even further that they can no longer be offered is no longer possible, they can no longer wait for righteousness. The people's party insists that government funds be used as support for bringing people out of poverty and also to see to it that no children need immediate care. I say, "Rests and sponsors for everyone, not just one group."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u73	A respectable president. I hereby propose a synopsis on the Sunway, that the Allied Council conclude to hide the Minister of Us to employ all preparations for the Sunway, with a bridge between Kleppsvík and Guifness, to be speeded up, and to perform the first and no later port than before the end of 2023. The procedure will be completed by the end of 2027 or earlier. Diving Roads will be the priority of transport reforms in the country. Secretary of Council of the Council for the 152th legislation. Then there's a proposal for Congress. It is necessary to provide transportation to and from the capital area. It's clear to everyone. To this end, there was an attack on the construction of a Halfland tunnel, a double Rhine Way, and now the last increase in lanes on the Southland road. The next step is to build a Sunway, a highway that goes from Kjalarnes to Kjalares. The drawing table has been on for decades and has been repeatedly discussed in the company's elections as an important program for the city and the capital area of Reykjavík. In Western, Northern, western, and Western areas, waterways are very important. Road transport to and from the capital area is essential to working construction in the country. A swimming path would make it easier for those who have to travel daily between Reykjavík and Western lands. The river, Grafarvogi, Grafarholt, and Mosfells, would also facilitate daily transportation through western parts of these neighborhoods. In this area, there are tens of thousands of people, most of whom travel every day in the western part of the country. The road estimates that a 60 million - mile [60 million km] [60 million km] [60 million km] would be reduced. How much less that will be! If travel time can be shortened, it will bring a significant profit to the nation. As a result, a road to pollution is reduced by reducing travel time and thus by reducing automobile exhaust, leading to significant improvements in climate. Indisputedly, Diving Course is a lucrative task. According to the road, the internal growth of the project is estimated to be 10◯12%, but, as a general rule, projects are expected to be wanting if internal interest is above 3.5%. Thus, a break - up is the most economic advantage available in Iceland today. Swimways are not merely designed to improve efficiency. It also increases security. It is important for the operator to be able to travel effectively to and from Reykjavík. An event time is everything, and in the present situation, it does not take much to extend response time severely. It is also important that there are enough refugees from the capital area and readily available. If disaster strikes, the capital area must have a clear way out of the city. The same is true of escape routes in the road system as of a building burning exit. Their number counts in security. This is especially important right now, but it seems that the volcano has begun on Smokejanes, just south of Reykjavík. I'll remind you, for example. of the Republic's 50th birthday in 1994, when the capital city was scheduled to attend the Festival of Birthdays. Dizziness has been delayed for far too long. For the first time in 1975, they entered the world's main organization in Reykjavík in 1984, but because of the category of political elements in Reykjavík, the project was consistently suspended. Initial dikes were excluded by organizational changes when a land at Gelgjutanga was new under apartment building. Sadly, the project involves not only the interests of its citizens but all the people of the country. I'm saying this isn't about Gelgjutanga Sunwalk, it's about a bridge between Kleppsvík and Gufuness. On D yet another report on the work group. In May 2020, the head of transportation and rural administration ordered a team of personnel to perform diagnostic work on the remaining options on the front of Kleppsvík. The objective of the task force was that there is needed information to determine a decision on the Sports Road in the West Coast. The staff began their work in June 2020 and gave a report in January 2021. The report shows that the main suggestions that now exist on the precipitating of Cheppsvík will set in motion a tunnel and a bridge connected with Sea Road to the Holtway. Reykjavík has declared opposition to Káppsvík's instigation with a bridge. In 2008 the mayor agreed on a challenge to the Secretary of Transport and the World Transport Committee for Transportation that they promoted the use of a waterway. The results of this report clearly indicate that the Sunday bridge is a more efficient option than the Sunwater tunnel. The Sunbed Bridge is estimated to be about 14 billion. Inexpensive of a swimming tunnel. The total cost at the Sunway from Seaway to Kjalarnesi, with a Sunday bridge over Kleppsvík, will be about 69 billion. but with a swimming channel about 83 billion p.m. How much less that will be! It shows a 20% reduction in driving through the Sunways compared to the Sun Bridge. Both options were evaluated based on effects on marina function, but neither was considered likely to significantly interfere with waterfront function. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this proposal, the Allied Council is stating that this would consider the Suna bridge the most practical advantage, but in all media discussions and in the community alone, it appears to be a Dizziness Way. I think that now we need to start talking about Sundway or Sundrum and that the General has to state that the alternative that will be chosen in the future will be the Sunbed. It is the option to choose, and it will be selected anyway, even if you want a channel. The difference simply is too much. That's a 14 billion price difference. The diagonal bridge is 14 billion. Inexpensive activity, as I said before, and traffic will also be 20% lower on the Sunway than on the Sunbed bridge. The numbers speak for themselves. Divorcing is a much better option, both in use and in financial matters. That's 14 billion bucks. Difference. You can build a tunnel on a land, one or two tunnels, for that money. This is way too expensive. If Reykjavíkurburg insists that it be a Sunwater tunnel, the city of Reykjavík should pay that amount. This is fundamental to the preparation of the case to determine whether it will be the Sunbed or the Sunwater tunnel. No longer can it be said that there is no longer any longer any long - term discussion of the Dizziness Way. You have to talk about the construction, and it's the Sun doll, and you have to start designing that bridge as soon as possible. Clearly, the decision is to make whether to build a Sunday bridge or a Sunwater tunnel. This is a decision that the State must eventually make because it is the government that will pay it primarily. If Reykjavíkurburg is against the work of Sunday bridge, it is important that this opinion be made as soon as possible. It's important that this happens in the spring months. There is nothing to wait for as far as it goes. The waterfront is not a city private city of Reykjavík and concerns the interests of the great population of the country. A waterway would significantly shorten the time it takes to drive between the northwest and the capital. Thus, it is important for inhabitants in these areas, especially for the Ac Arane, but it would significantly strengthen the town's position as part of the capital's work area. As a normal continuation of the Whale Landwalk, the link between Western countries and the capital area was greatly affected. This would have a positive effect on jobs in the region and on the field e.g. the access of tourists to the West and the Northlands by improved transport. Travel services are the largest sector in the nation, but in these parts of the country, tourism opportunities are maligned. I'd like to discuss only the declaration of transport and rural administration and the mayor of July 6, 2021, where it is stated that projects on the D.O. can begin no later than 2026, and that the course will be implemented in 2031, with reasonable notice of the results of consultation and environmental assessment. Participants agree to work fast and well at the preparations mentioned above. I call attention to the aim of developing projects on the Sunway, which will be no later than 2026, and 2031 will be used. It is not to discuss the nature of the circuit, whether it should be a bridge or a tunnel, whether to dig the Sunbed, or to build a Sunbed. This is basic so that preparation can be started on the project. The declaration contains good promises, but as so often as before, the task is being delayed. We can't wait another decade to make the Sunway. In addition, the declaration draws a process that can easily take much longer. Projections and assessments of environmental impact and other planning for major projects are likely to take much longer than expected at the beginning and prior to preparation. The examples prove that. It took many decades to set in motion the road around Chets Forest, and so may the same thing happen here, exactly the same thing. I can take an example. I was a lawyer for the Organizational Organization of 2002◯2006, and then I was working on Cheigswood's organization. They are not yet completed. I think they're due to be initiated for the summer, this tremendously important road project on Chef Forest. We're talking about it as likely as 20 years, say 18 years ago. The case is over and over again, and the government has not been on its feet, otherwise this vital transport would have been improved by the West, which can be accomplished and completed many years ago. As a result, it is important that all preparation for the implementation be made as soon as possible. It is important, then, that the Council clearly declares that a Dwl route is an important way in which it should be a priority in transport. It is the national economy of the longest road possible, as I noted earlier. The General Assembly should be prepared to use its legal authority to prevent abnormal delays in the preparation of the project. If there is a need for legal adjustments because of the waterways, this proposal will be passed on to the council. We've got to get started as soon as possible. The decision whether to build a Sunway or a Sunwalk will not be based on socio-economic analysis. Actually, it's been published. It was requested at the time, but it will not be based solely on it. Environmental impact has to be initiated and the design needs to be started as soon as possible. I'd like to take a few words to a socio-economic analysis that came out during these days, with the permission of a president: A global advantage from the Sunwater Road - and I note that it is always referred to as the Sunway, not the Sundway or tunnel - the estimated range of 186 and 235 billion, now at the price of 2021 over the 30-year period of the analysis. Internal physical growth is estimated from 11.5% - 12.2%, different by transfer. So there are tremendous interests at stake, up to 235 billion dollars. In a national gain, and that certainly does not make much less of it. The results of the travel team in their time, as noted, show that the Sunday bridge is a much more practical option, both for its use and for the financial resources. Organizational laws and laws on the environmental assessment of implementation and programmes require the legal preparatory procedure for implementation. It is important to start as early as possible when preparing for the Dizziness Bridge, i.e. If a decision be made concerning the Sunday bridge, which I think is important, as I said before, that the Allied should stress. [[The president calls.]] This is a very important project, and I believe this is an important factor that should be made up of speed and good access to the Transport Committee and then to the 2nd issue. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u74	Madam President. Thank you. For this discussion, a senator should not be surprised that we who live in Reykjavík and who are members of the Council are deeply interested in this matter. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, the Sunway is not a private matter in Reykjavík, but it should be understood. A senator is now more in favor of a Sunway or a bridge rather than a Sunfall tunnel? In this context, he mentioned that because this was not a city's private matter and it was more expensive than a bridge or a track, the city would have its organization to enter a tunnel, so if I understood it correctly, pay what was between them, some tens of billions. How does it work out? I'd like to ask you what. Councilman: If this is not Reykjavík's private address, why should it carry all the weight at tunnels instead of bridges?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's a very good question. I hope we agree that it's a national gain, a huge national gain, up to 235 billion dollars, and it's very important to the country. This will cut the distance by half an hour and a half to the west and north. By this resolution presented here, the General Assembly will express its will to be inhabited by a Sunday bridge rather than a Sunday tunnel. The evidence is that the Sunbed bridge is 14 billion less expensive than the Sunwater tunnel, and there is a 20% reduction in the use of traffic pool channels than on the Sun Bridge. Likewise, racers and pedestrians could use a Dew bridge rather than a tunnel. If the State's authority declares that it wants a Sunday bridge out of this argument, but Reykjavíkurburg wishes a Sunfall tunnel, the city of Reykjavík must give a clear explanation of who should pay the cost. I believe that if Reykjavíkurburg asks that there will be a Sunwater tunnel, it must be explained to the government how to pay it. I believe that if the city wants a tunnel, it must fall on its expense. I state that it is by far the most simple thing to make a decision about Sundame instead of standing at Reykjavíkurburg for a few years about whether to be a bridge or a tunnel so that a joint declaration about the Sunway will come. The 2026 is now ready to begin, but for God's sake, it's decided whether it should be a bridge or a tunnel. I say tunnel. - I say bridge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u76	Exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u77	Madam President. Sometimes it would be wish that the cameras would catch the faces of the people in the hall at once. Senators misjudged themselves so badly in a pit, because we were all as confused. But this related point is that when we are going to go to major projects - and don't look at them - it's mandatory to look to different options. Hv. A senator entered a series of decades of debate over road repairs on Chef Forest, and there I think we're going to have a hard time. A senator does not necessarily agree. If one of the assets is a Sunwalk, which we all understand. A senator doesn't particularly approve, and is the best option in the environmental way possible, should it not be looked to? I'd like to ask you what. This suggests that, by permission of the president, the objective of organizational legislation is that the development and use of land in this country will be in accordance with the economic, social, and cultural needs of the citizens of the country ◯. I miss a bit of the report that you look at environmental friendships in this context and maybe. The best approach to the environment may be to a tunnel. That's where we could, for example. Look at our cousin in the Faeroe Islands, as far as I'm next able, aims for a callole beneath the sea from one island to another. These solutions do exist in many ways. Truly, it costs more, but it really is - why. A senator gives the figure 14 billion - a potential environmental impact of a bridge or a track to be justified when perhaps. is that not the larger amount?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Of course, I wanted a bridge as it stands in the motion. In terms of the cost, I can take an example from Chets Forest, there were ideas of building tunnels there. It would have been a very good job to make a tunnel to live in Gufjordur and Deepafjörður. But at the same time, because of the cost, Chets were chosen. There was always a time when the Forests would be selected for expenses. It doesn't matter here. I believe there will always be a bridge. Going into a tunnel at an expense is not preconceivable. As for the environmental impact, we're here in a urban area, and a bridge is an invisible structure. I think a bridge could be just one of the so-called land limits in Reykjavík. It could be urban. I know that this can be the case with Grafarvogur, a local organization there, and perhaps more. There's been a lot of debate in Grafarvogur, e.g. Because of Hall's road, that road venture was delayed for years because of disputes. I just think it's very important to take this discussion about whether it should be a bridge or a tunnel, not to say, "We all agree on the Sunway, agreed on a statement by the mayor and more agencies, the government, to get started on the track. The question, though, is always this, the difficult question: Should it be a tunnel or a bridge? Which should be the Sunwater tunnel or the Sun bridge? I just know that in the end there'll be a bridge, the Sunbrush. This discussion is to be conducted, through the Sun Bridge or the Swim tunnel. It is completely set in my mind that the second thing we take in this discussion, which is very good to take now, the more it will delay the project. This cannot be swept under the carpet and kept talking about how awesome Daffy Lane is, and we save so much money when it's not figured out what it's supposed to look like. I don't think the environmental impact of this structure will be large, since it's in urban areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For this fine connotation proposal, the Eyjólfur Ármannsson of a year. The matter is important to all of us, and especially has this discussion been extremely long and harsh and of all kinds for older ones. But everything that's happened to you has been wrong. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson is correct, i.e. that there has been one of the best options for traveling in the past and in the future. The mission is to take into account the responsibility of the roadmaker and the role of Reykjavíkurburg; neither to speed up the organizational activity to take into account nearby settlements, such as any changes to take place in Vogatown and Grafarvog's settlements. The current social economic analysis was requested. It's often that way, when you're being asked for this kind of analysis, you get a little worried because you think, " Who's asking for the diagnosis, and who's gonna pay for it? And whoever pays her, what does he want out of her? So it often comes to this feeling that we may be just trying to get a certain opinion or viewpoint by asking for an analysis. But it turns out that building a bridge is more practical than a tunnel. In fact, it is not a major financial difference, but it is a financial difference. And it may also be possible to interpret this socio-economic analysis on a wide range of topics. Of course, a bridge has the obvious advantage of crossing a wheel and walking, as we have seen. Clearly, it is impossible to compare the outward appearance of a bridge with a versed tunnel, simply to come to the city and cross a magnificent bridge rather than drive into a tunnel. In addition, a bridge becomes part of a traffic system within the city. Of course, it does not matter how a bridge will be discussed. Of course, it needs to be a beautiful, impressive monument, which will then become a type of entrance to the capital and give us this positive experience when they drive into the city. We all know this from being in foreign lands, how impressive a construction can be, and driving across a bridge in a city is a pleasant experience. I don't think there's anybody at this time arguing that Sundabra is a more practical option for the tunnel. But as it is now, it seems pretty clear that the government is a bit more talking about a bridge than the mayor's being involved in a tunnel. I don't really think that's a question anymore, but I don't know better than that the mayor and his people in the greater part just sat in a lot of chats and talked for tunnels, so it's perfectly clear what wishes are there. And then there's the question why, what is the explanation that the mayor's share speaks for tunnels? I haven't really got it out properly unless there's something more fun or better in the environment or that it takes less space. The environmental impact is uncertain in case of a bridge. It is quite amusing to read the comments of the management section in various reports on this subject, for as we know, there is hardly any more breath in Reykjavík, all of which have been filled. So, then, in this discussion, there is suddenly a great interest in protecting the environment and the environment. It's just the way things are every time. But I agree with what has happened. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson in the construction of the Sunway, and let's go soon and hopefully talk about the Sunday bridge, has been delayed too long, including It's a organizational matter. This project has not been financed, and it is, of course, the job of the State and the Road Building to put it in lines. But if we just look at social profits that will come about with this project, it's naturally amazing profit. We're talking about driving and saving time, this profit will spread on a lot of people. Of course, we are talking about those who drive between Western and Reykjavík, who will benefit immensely from this means of transportation. This discussion has never been as close to us as it is right now as it is to ask itself, " Is this really happening? ' Are we starting this journey? I agree with what's been said that it sounds like we're going to the bridge. If the state power prefers it, it's strong. And if the city's argument is weak, it's still more of a vote for the bridge. But it is time to make a decision. We cannot be in the middle of this forever. You simply ask yourself, " Will I live to see this construction come into existence? ' I hope so. The traffic is growing. The city is expanding. We're obviously seeing population growth, and there's no protest, there's going to be huge population growth and probably more than predicted. And each survey after another has shown that the number of cars, whatever is being done, is increasing in an effort to cope. Of course, we're all thinking about the climate and everything, and it's just wonderful that more and more people are on their bicycles and then maybe more people come in. Yet, the number of cars is increasing. So I just want to thank you again and hopefully be a fruitful, enjoyable discussion. Then I'm looking forward to seeing a beautiful bridge rise over there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u80	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the Senate resolution of the Shockers. The whole outfit is saying that it's a great suggestion. But how much faith do you have in the coming of the Sunway? If I look back in time, I had a tremendous faith 35◯40 years ago on the surface road in Reykjavík. It was then spoken of on the surface so that those coming west or south or south would not have to pass through all the rural areas of the country except the Seltanes to make their way. I once pointed out that it would be kind of great to make a call morning about the Seltjananes so that they could be part of that nonsense now. But it was promised that this upper road would come, and I firmly believed it when I moved to Hafnarfjörður. However, this surface road has not yet been planned, and it has, in effect, been destroyed. Maybe it's a dream of when it was being talked about here a circle tunnel like the Faeroes have done below the sea. It could be a dream to put a tunnel under Reykjavík and hook up all this road, and even a grand path that would be in stocking and then you could make an underground highway to get cars out of the way all the countryside to get through, but even in my wildest dreams, I would say it would be impossible. The fact of this matter is that Reykjavíkurburg is never going to do this. It never stands for a tunnel or a bridge. Why? Yes, because they're making sure now by suddenly stopping talking about a bridge and starting to talk about a tunnel, they just say there's nothing to do about it for the next four years. Now it's time to vote for the mayor of Reykjavík, and they're not going to do anything about it for four years, nothing in this case. It was very clear that there are four years of thinking about this, thinking about it. That's why I support the whole mind of this bridge. It says in the suggestion that this bridge should be started immediately and completed by 2027. There would be real work, and it would be good for us to agree to this. But that I think it is, as I say, a dream in a can, not a reality. The practical nature of the waterway has been demonstrated, and something has to be done. Perhaps it was, may we say, luckfully, that in all our Covid epidemics, we didn't have to travel between us like two years ago when I was traveling from Hafnarfjörður to Reykjavík. I was able to spend nearly two hours on the road that usually lasts 10 to 15 minutes, showing how the road system has become in Reykjavík, and this is, unfortunately, beginning again. We're starting to figure that out right now. When we're about to leave for a council meeting and show up at 8:30 or nine or earlier in the morning, that means that we need a minimum of an hour of head start before we leave, which, of course, tells us that the road system is completely broken and does not exist in any way to change it. There's just one thing that this more part of Reykjavík is focusing on and that's a city line that's going to cost an enormous amount of money, far more than this bridge - or it'll never be one bridge, it's gonna be a bridge that's gonna have to get over the alley and up to the top of Kjalarnes. This project should have just been on, and it should have been done long ago above the surface. It's going to be very hard to hook up with cars that come from the west and are headed for Southnes first, then into Reykjavík, then into Gardavor, then into Hafnarfjordur, and then to the south. Can you imagine the stupidity? I've run many places in Europe, run down all of Denmark, but from Copenhagen and all the way down to the German border, I haven't had to go to one town, not one town, unless I had a way into town. That's what we're supposed to build. But do we have it here? No. We don't even seem to have the slightest chance of trying to do something like that. They just stick their heads in the sand and say, "No, we're just gonna stop the cars, now we're all supposed to ride or walk. I never get around to cycle, even more to walk, and the most important thing is that even those who are so narrow - minded, in charge of traffic matters in Reykjavík, they are ready to put everything they can to protect themselves, since even those who are disabled on cars can park or make their way in the city. In fact, these disabled ones are placed with flowers to stop the nerve to go downtown trying to do their business. Therefore, I say, I rest my mind on this suggestion, hoping that it will succeed. But for that reason, I think the only way is to cut down more parts of the city of Reykjavík so he can't stand in the way of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u81	Madam President. Swimming runway. Those of us who have lived upstairs in Christmas know that getting a bridge or tunnel from the Kjalarnes down in Reykjavík would save us a lot of time, not having to drive through all of Mosfellstown. Sometimes I still say Mosfells 'cause I started driving this route when the town was still called a Mosfells band. This may be the case, but this bridge, or tunnel, has been spoken for ten years. I read somewhere in the report that a proposal had been adopted in the 2008 mayor. I'm sure people started talking about this a lot earlier. It is important that we discern this and think a little bit about the fact that the commercial sector, the capital, is growing rapidly. It's getting bigger in every direction. It's growing up on Acdín, Citynes, and the dress. It's also growing south; it's on the Rhine, the South, Selephos. I heard an interview with the mayor, or the mayor or what they call it, in a year's city, expecting thousands of new residents. Not all of them are about to work in that area. They are just about to drive into the city. Not only do we need to think about one course but we need, like the other. A senator mentioned earlier to think on the whole thing. We look at just one thing at a time and do a lot of work. I found the good example that my stepfather, the mayor of the Hafnarfjörður, told me some years ago. When they were making the double on the Rhine Way through Hafnarfjordur, the contractor offered to lend the double interestless to 20 years old. At the time, it was just a simple way through there. Those of you who have driven through there recently know that it is relatively recently, perhaps two years ago, that the road was finally doubled. They were offered interest - free loans to 10How 15 years of age to do this only twice that way. Why? Yes, because it took only 15% more to give double up then, instead of parking simple now. And now, 15 or 20 years later, the road has finally doubled for ten times what was paid for the original one - sided road. This is how we may be shortsighted when we are doing things. We need to get together both at the council and in the countryside, and we need to settle down on how we build a transportation system here in this area and in the neighborhood that works for everyone. There are different opinions. But I'm sure if we stop throwing our eggs at each other and blame it on each other and the other, we could come up with a deal. But then we also need to make sure that we make a deal considering how things are changing. Let's not just think about the next five years or the next ten years, but as far as we can, because we're just going to grow, and the areas around here are just going to grow. We can live in a fantasy that none of these things will happen, but we can also live in the fantasy world that we can agree on these things. As long as we're sitting here, we're still here at the Council. All councilmen or if this is gonna be a Sunday drive for us elders, we'll just have to show up. But we need to take this discussion, and we need to reach a conclusion that works out for all. We will not if we do so only by ourselves. We need to work out our partnership, find our cooperation, and tackle the problems we already face.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A well - thought - out discussion of this important matter is given to members of the body of Jehovah's Witnesses. I feel a little bit from members of Congress, I don't say hopelessness, but maybe the belief that there's probably never been a waterway because it's been in the discussion for so long. I have a certain sympathy with that view, it's always somewhere in the future, not now. But the future is now on this issue. It is now time to make a decision about the Sunday bridge or the Sunwalk. It's going to be the Sunken Bridge. No matter how long we'll argue about it, we can take the discussion on the Sunwater tunnel, but the final decision will be the Sunday bridge. I hope for the last time I'm saying "Divine Road" because I'm so tired of hearing that word in my discussion, that it's now a wish declaration that it should be built, and that's what it should be, but it's not yet decided what it's supposed to be. In 1975, after 47 years of putting it on, the Daffy Ways have been delayed for a long time. It came first into Reykjavík's main organization in 1984, 38 years ago. Due to the category of political controversy in Reykjavík, the project was always postponed. Initial dikes were eliminated by organizational changes when a land on Gelgjutanga was replaced by an apartment structure. But there's still room, and in this council resolution here, there's talk of a bridge between Kleppsvík and Gufuness. This is an enormously practical project, the national economy of the most practical road available in Iceland. As noted earlier, economic benefits are between 186 and 235 billion. over a 30-year period. That's a lot of money. The internal growth of the project as determined by the Road Type is estimated at 10◯12%. In general, when there is an internal growth above 3.5%, tasks are considered acceptable. This is a multifold internal growth, many times. Reykjavíkurburg has declared opposition to Káppsvík's instigation with a bridge. In 2008, 14 years ago, the mayor agreed with a challenge to the Council of Transport and Transportation Committee that these members promoted a tunnel path. That was 14 years ago. I haven't heard the mayor's opinion since then, but I think there's a change of times in the 14 years, and I also believe that the waterway in the capital area will be transfuse them completely. It will open a great potential for structure to disappear on the north of Reykjavík, up to Kjalarnesi and elsewhere, and there will be more routes to enter the city. This would reduce the tremendous pressure on the Westland road between Mosfellstown and Reykjavík, there it would be. I am convinced that a bridge will be used more in Reykjavík than by Westerners who are entering the city. The largest amount of traffic will be in Reykjavík on this bridge, although it is extremely important for the country. I can take an example. On Aranesp, there are 8,000 people, between 7,000 and 8,000. In Grafarvogi, who could new this bridge, live some 25,000 people, if I remember correctly, could be up to 30,000 people, I don't know, but last number I think was 23,000 people in Grafarvogi. This would benefit the Grafarvogians very well and very much. Certainly there would be opposition, too, because it would be a means of transportation, but a means of transportation that I believe would be a great contribution to the city's land, an impressive monument for which all capital citizens could be proud. I believe that the opposition to a bridge is largely contrary to the unknown and, in part, based on misunderstandings. I don't think there'll be enough traffic to damage anything about the population. When the Ring Road was moved, we can accept the opposition, which was extremely opposition to it. It is often opposition to transportation, we can take as an example the Blesssau test, the road was set in motion, and there was great opposition. There were natural damages, lava, but this bridge is in the city country. What is the effect on the environment? These are important laws, environmental assessment laws. They're considered geese and lays. I've seen these in the country, e.g. About Threshold, Arnklasdal, Götsdal, and so on. What's the result? Yes, there is so much vegetation under the way and so on. The environmental impact of this project would not be extensive as it is in the city country. There is no interference with the environment and nature because of the urban roads, no natural damage or anything like that. So there is nothing we need to worry about. For a tunnel, the absolute use is 20% smaller, there's 20% more using the bridge. I believe this discussion will be taken into consideration, the Sunday bridge must be discussed, beginning to design it and implement planning procedures and the environmental assessment laws. It's all gonna take time. Not that there's not been a Sunday weekend - I'm gonna try to promise myself that I'm not going to talk about any future Daffle Lane but only Sundway or Sundway. This evaluation takes time and also the organizational process. It's so important to start right away. You can't talk about how we're getting ready for this when you haven't decided how the human working is supposed to look, so I don't talk about whether it's a bridge or a tunnel. I believe that it is important that the Council take action, set this as a top priority on the national transport sector, and the Minister of wood get clear wishes from the Council on what the General wants, that it will be a Sunday bridge and it must be speed-up and this will be a priority for the nation. That's a lot of money. I know that for the ideal thing I represent here at the General Assembly, the Northwestern District, with the Westland, and the Northern West, this is an enormously important project, both for tourism, employment opportunities, and so forth. These are the national interests of the country, and these are also the interests of the capital. It is time for real projects, complex and difficult projects. This is the complex process and the importance of starting right away. I know Iceland is not accustomed to complex and difficult projects, they often do relatively simple projects, road projects, and stuff like that. Building a tunnel is not complicated, shoveling out, and so on, but it's a very important project and it's gonna cost a fortune and it's important to get started as soon as possible so we can get the economic gain as soon as possible. I want to complete my case by thanking the members of Parliament for an excellent discussion on the subject, and I hope they are well discussed and treated at the Senate Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speeches on Sunwater Road, Sundway, Sunwalk. It's always a question of how this ends. But since I know what to do. A senator has had a little experience with this, so I wanted to ask him what else but a political wish has been to delay the matter for perhaps 20 years. Is that the environmental impact? Is it the financing, or is it just that when the government wants to do something, the city doesn't want to do it and vice versa? What has caused this to be delayed? Suppose tomorrow during an unprepared question period. A senator asking if he doesn't exist, and the minister says yes, and then he calls at the top. The mayor says, "Hey, let's go." How long will this take, how long can we expect this to take from the time all this process is done and until we finally get to run over it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. How long is this gonna take? According to a statement made by the manager and the mayor I quoted earlier, they expect to start 2026 and complete 2031. Today, it takes four years to 2026, and it has not yet been decided whether there will be a Sunday or a Swim tunnel. There's always talk of the Sunway, everybody's very excited about the Sunway, they don't know what it's gonna be, so there's a problem. The estimated five years of execution are, but that is the crucial preparatory period. That's why it's so important to start as soon as possible and decide. We're gonna build a Sunday bridge. It is then important that the design process is performed as early as possible. In the motion and declaration of the minister and the mayor, it is said to go to a design contest, so this is to be an important building in the urban environment. There is no international competition for nothing. Now, for the routines, we've been talking about this for so many years, I think it's a classic example of the town of Reykjavík and the government. Reykjavíkurburg has declared that she wants a tunnel, did it in 2008, and it probably won't. That's why the cost has been delayed. The government hasn't been ready to take this fight and say, "We want a Sunday bridge. It's the will of the Generals, and it's the will of the State to get a Sunday. Then the city must say, "Yes, we agree, or it must continue to demand a waterway." It is this debate as to whether it should be a bridge or a tunnel that has taken the matter by hand and this communication between government and city authorities. But now it is time for the decision to make the decision by the Council of the Icelanders by resolution that it will be the Sunday bridge and that it will be followed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A bridge or a tunnel. That's a good question. I've seen both solutions, tunnels under the sea, bridge across the sea. I've even driven a daily fleet over water. I don't recommend it under Icelandic weather, it wouldn't go very well. This is shown in the report with the suggestion that there are about 14 billion dollars. Inexpensively, make a bridge more than a tunnel. However, there are probably some reasons why Reykjavík's been pressing a tunnel. I remember hearing about shipping, even life and so forth. I wanted to hear what I was thinking. Senator. Funding this kind of project is always a big deal, and it's been said, at least in the discussion here, that financing on a project like this would even be with user fees, something I'm not too much of a personal thing. But 14 billion, slightly higher user fees, and perhaps some other effect. What's the stand? To make sure that the difference in cost should be the difference in expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later answers. Yes, I have also lived in a country where there is an incredible amount of tunnels, and I wrote an article about it before elections, and I did a little research. I have lived in Norway, where, in 2018, there were 1,16 tunnels. They're probably up to 1,200 in Norway. In Iceland, there are 10 tunnels in use. The difference between Norway's size and wealth does not explain this difference, by no means. This lack of initiative for the Icelanders is quite remarkable. There's a lot less mountainous than there. There are also tunnels in the center of Oslo, for example. The reason for the delay is that there are many residents, some residents, probably disgruntled about the project, and the city does not want to confound this part of the population and decide that it will ever be, but the city wanted a tunnel of 2008. This has been delayed for a long time before the Allied Council has to make a decision about a bridge. We live in the state of Congress, and if we say there's a bridge, we've decided. That's the way it is. That's basic. At the expense, this project will cost a lot of money. This proposal is not about how to finance the Sunday bridge. That is a decision later on. Of course, there are huge incomes from car expenses and such, and I believe it should be paid primarily by tax dollars and put in charge of other projects, and that is also the case. The income. However, some sort of whale model would be a payment, but it must not be taken by the wealthy and in the country. There may be some model where some items might be paid, but these groups must not be bitten. Also, I don't think that it would be a prerequisite to go into remuneration when the construction is within the city, i.e. People are running between here and there, disappearing in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u87	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the purchase of a new British carrier. It reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of wood to have a new ferry used in regular zeppelins on the Brefjords. The ferry meets today's standards for safety and comfort in passenger transport and can handle employment and residents on the West and the British soil. The possibility of driving the ferry through renewable energy sources will be investigated. The road has been effective in consultation with rural areas in Western countries and the West to meet the requirements for the process. Until the start of a new ferry, General III, registration number 2164, in regular ferry cruises on the Brefjord. As soon as possible, and no later than June 2022, the dockers should be started on a ferry route to ensure that General III can take on ferry cruises as soon as possible. Since 1924, the British takeover Baldur and its predecessors, with the same name, have sailed regular squares across the British world. The process plays an important role in transport between Snæfellsness and the West and the rest of the British Ground, but Baldur is very important for the rest of the British community, Flatey and the rest of the islands. It also makes an important link between the Snæfellsnes, the Brefjörður, and the West that benefit the inhabitants. In recent years there have been some improvements in the road system in the West, and further improvements are seen in the coming years. Nevertheless, the importance of Baldur has not been reduced, and even the evidence shows that the bus route has become more important than ever before. The rise of tourism during the past decade made the nation significant gains, and much construction has taken place in Western and Western tourism. Baldur is very important for tourism in the area. On the ferry journey, there are many destinations that interest tourists. Flatey has become a popular destination for tourists, and Brauns Rivers are near many of the world's spheres, such as theland of the Waterfjords, Red Hazard, Darynda, and Dorabjörg. At that time, the ferry route also enhances the appeal of Snæfellsness, which allows tourists to travel through Snæfells and then travel with Bisni to the West. Now that a new route through Dome is completed, it is predictable that Isengard, Bolvík, and others will drive largely south to Reykjavík. It is important that they be able to choose between riding the Barboard Coast or to take the Breafjörður transporter Baldur. Traveling with Breafjörður is a real comforter and saves for about three hours a tiresome ride. Baldur, the bridge to the West, has a long history and is a ferry of the country's oldest resorts. Baldur's story began 98 years ago or 1924 ago when Guðmundur Jónsson of Narfun bought an old boat to transport passengers and goods. Today's use process was purchased from Norway in order to better care for heavy transportation. The ferry before it was purchased from the Netherlands. The situation for passengers was much better on the older ferry. In regard to the situation and comforts of a passenger, a cruise with the present Bimbo is like going back decades. An old-fashioned windowless dining room is down in a keel and an old, worn, uncomfortable seat under a bridge. The current Baldur does not meet today's today's demand for comfort in passenger transport, nor does it relate to the fact that tourism is today the most important industry in the nation. A new and modern Breafjörður ticket for passengers and heavy transport is a natural birthday present for Baldur's 100th birthday in 2024. More industry than tourism can benefit from regular boat cruises across the Breafjörður. Laxeldi is now the cornerstone of a job life in the West, and every day 100 tons of salmon are transported south. The export value of fuel products was 29.3 billion. in 2020. No matter what the scale, whether in centenarians, foreign coins, or tons, the export of farm products has never been greater. In 2020, the share of the West was more than 50% in the export value of fuel products, some 15 billion. Fish farming on the West yields billions of dollars in the local market, and within five years, more than 50,000 tons will be produced, twice as much as today. The transport of crops and resources will therefore be greatly increased, and the road system will need to be taken into account. It is important that fresh products return to their destination as soon as possible. It can double transport time if square cruises are down, I don't talk about wintering. How important it is, then, that ships are regular, safe, and stable. Sadly, Baldur is no longer suitable for the ferry route. The ferry does not have a backup engine, which is a time error today, and more than once it has needed help to land because of mechanical failure. A passenger's safety needs to be maintained better than that. In that case, the train is not large enough to satisfy the demand for breeding companies that inhibit production of salmon farms on the West. The inhabitants of Western and Western Europe have repeatedly reenacted to the governments the need to ensure safe sailing on the British Express as a demand. Last October, the 14th meeting of the West, concluded that it was necessary to renew Baldur. The conclusion is that the ferry is the foundation of transport in the West today, as it is seen in a series of full - year voyages between the southern and northern West, with implementations on the Daguendir. The conclusion also shows that due to political accidents, it is necessary to complete a management plan. Stykshall has also concluded the importance of renewing the Brefjörður carrier as soon as possible and the conclusion of the case before the process's contract expires the next spring. The road work reported in the summer that despite a careful search, no ship was found to replace Baldur in a shorter time. According to the road, changes in marinas would have to be made in order to take another ferry into use. They've been custom-like to-be-old Baldur and then adapted to the current Baldur. Based on the need for increased transport capacity, they need to be altered. The road has been completed at the need for analysis for ferry cruises on Breafjörður. According to this report, in the next 5 years there will be an estimated 35,000 tons of heavy transport to 58,000 tons per year. It is estimated that a new ferry will cost 4.5 billion dollars. In mangroves, but when compared, a new war planet cost 6 billion dollars. Transporters of this proposal agree with the Summit of the West. A new ferry would contribute to a job structure on the West coast, increase transport safety, and reduce highway traffic pressures. It is necessary to take immediate action to ensure the safe passage of Brefjord. This is an enormously important voyage to the West, especially with regard to the increased tourism. For example, I can say that the Westerners are considered to have tremendous attraction and, for example, an enormous attraction. has Lonly Planet, who publishes the famous travel books for many years, been unable to do this last year, considered to be among the five best and most interesting places to visit and have visited several times in recent years. This part of the country has tremendous attraction and an opportunity for a quarter. For example, for the first time in 30, 40 years, the number of people on the West grew by about 3%, if I remember correctly. It's the first time after decades of recession and migration because of the saying of the saying system. The modern development is important, and especially that new tourism also changes employment to a quarter. Then there is not only the sea route and agriculture that is the foundation but also the third support for tourism, and I hope that free hand fishing would allow new blood in the western seas. It is therefore suggested that the Council hide ministers to provide new ships that meet today's demand and demand. It should also be started immediately by altering marina activities. Then, when a dock has been adjusted and a new ferry is used, the oldpheil should be used for ferry cruises. Baldur's 100th birthday, 2024 The hope of transporters is that our birthday present, a new ferry, comes quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson economist for good. I have to admit, it's been quite a while since I boarded Baldur, and I don't even know if it was the old Baldur or the current Baldur. But I'd like to ask you first. Senator: If there was an investor in a more powerful ferry, the much more powerful ferry is there now, what opportunities apart from tourism could this be for innovation and employment development in this area? Then I'm also wondering if there are any more places to sail on the Bream, thereby creating more opportunities, for example. To deliver some goods like fish and other items brought today by the road system, which is also in a lot of llama in that area, I think the members of the Parliament agree with me in that I also have to do a lot of work for the road system there. But what might we start to think about if we thought a little bit more and thought a little bit more about it? I'd love to hear from you. A senator sees what he sees in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The suggestion is that there will be just a ferry that meets today's requirements. The ferry today of a third-world ship. I can promise you that, what. A senator, that this ship will be sent to either scrap metal - the Norwegians were going to send this ship into scrap metal - or it will be sold to the Third World. Quality? This is really a question of getting a modern ship, that's what's underneath here, that can attend to local residents, tourism and employment. There's not a lot to ask, it's just asking for it to be now. The ship that is now very old. It doesn't have a backup machine or anything. The safety issues are also in complete disarray. The ferry before it was an old Dutch ferry, she was better for passengers. Then this ferry was bought, which is much worse for passengers than is better for heavy transport. Now it's just asked that there be modern transportation for passengers and transport. We're not talking about some huge amount, it's 4,5,5 billion, it's just normal transport improvements, for the road system too, that would help the weight of the road system. We're an island. We don't even carry goods around the island. And as for the route, I think it's just a really good one and I don't quite see it beginning to change. This is a reference to equalizing farm conditions by modern processes. That's just the way it is. It's not a big deal, but it's a huge deal for Vesturfjörður and Snæfells as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree completely with what. Senator, this is very important for transportation in this area. It's very important that we be talking there about the modern shuttle. One thing like that. In the synonym, a candidate notes that the process will be motivated by renewable energy sources, and it is likely to mean electricity. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If this renewable energy is electricity, what's the situation on the electrical system in this area in order to produce electricity there? That's where I look, for example. in recent contact with Sufficiency, where electricity is missing in order to allow for the Norwegian e.g. Only run the engines she needs ported on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later answers that this is a very important question. The Convention concluded that research will allow the ferry to be powered with renewable energy sources. I think there's a very good possibility that this ferry will be powered. But, of course, if you have to look at it, if it's to be bought or built a ferry that's going to be driven by electricity, then, of course, you'll also have to go to the plant building on the Brunns Creek and in the Stykisholmi, or at least in Stykisholim, I believe I am, so that batteries can be loaded and such. It's just a spontaneous infrastructure, just like fixing a harbor fortress in the area. The time has come for this exchange of energy to take place both in the sea and in the land, and this would be a good start on public transportation. I'd just like to state that as for this proposal, when the current ferry was bought, another more expensive ferry was found, but it was bought just a less expensive piece. This proposal is based on the fact that the will of the Generalis is in order to meet modern standards for security and comfort.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u92	A respectable president. I wanted to thank you. A man of prehistoric history, a number of facts revealed. I don't doubt the importance of Baldur at all. I'm sure it's good and it's really useful transportation. But in the Senate arrangement, and why. paritaprevir According to the president's permission, Losfun Ólafsson's Rafn came into it just now: 'There will be a possibility that the ferry will be motivated by renewable energy sources.' Checked. That's what I'm going to ask in a little bit, and I want to ask you why. A senator would do what we would do if renewable energy sources are not available. We live on a milestone of climate change, and we are approaching a dangerous stage of climate change that may not be reversed. So I would like to ask: Does not the group of people certainly agree that we need green transportation or transport solutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, you're right, it's said that there will be a possibility that the ferry will be powered by renewable energy sources. I believe there is a high probability that there will be a fresh, renewable source of energy to be found. When ships are spoken of, electricity is primarily in ferry transport, transporters that are powered by renewable energy sources. tugs need a lot more power, faster speed. I specifically checked this on small boats. It's really not in the maps for years to come, it's not going to be fast. But on the ferry cruises where speed is even faster, this would be good. As for the energy exchange in Iceland, we're way too far back, we're starting too late. I lived in Norway for years, and I'm even going there in the morning, moving out in 2010, and the Norwegians are way ahead of us. Norway is the third largest market in the world for the Tesseract. We're just starting on this trip. In Iceland, there is too much electricity and renewable energy, and I don't think there will be a lack of energy that will stop the ferry from being driven by electricity, not at all. It's more like we don't have enough wood, we're out of wood and the public system. I believe in Iceland we are in an extraordinary position to switch transport energy and use the high electricity the Icelanders have to drive the fleet and the ferry fleet and start the road in order to drive the fishing fleet, which will take a long time, including ... oftechnologyexperience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I am so happy to hear it. A senator and the first carrier want green transport solutions at their disposal and a high priority. I think it's really important to make sure that we have this green transport solution. But then I also wanted to ask a little more questions about the modern development of the ferry. A senator mentioned earlier, whether in his background or in response to an answer. What is involved in modern choice of ferry? Is that the room? It's the seats, is it the machines? Now I'm just curious as a capitalist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. It says in the Parliament that the ferry should meet today's standards for safety and convenience in passenger transport, and that it can care for commercial and Western trades, and we'll live on the British side. I've been using this ferry for decades, the Baldur Girls, since I was a child. Going on this ferry today is like going to a third-world ship. As mentioned in my history, a food dealer is in a keel, and all facilities are like going back to time. I'm not saying that for the first time. It's like going back to something like this, like 1960. All they need is the music. It's very similar, like getting on a time machine. Then there are the requirements for safety. It's missing, for example. A backup machine in Baldur and last year or first we met was a danger of a disaster with a passenger because the ferry broke down and was driving. It is very important that she meets security requirements and just plain conveniences. You're not talking about some luxury or some suite, VIP, not at all, just a modern convenience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u96	Mr. President. I thank the prominent for this discussion, and I feel the same way as others do. Senators in here. We share the view and vision that in this area there are tremendous opportunities, both in the Bresurfjörður and around the Breafjörður. The surface area itself is valid, e.g. Special legislation, the protection law on British soil, which is just to be more concerned with the importance of the environment in the context of nature protection as well as the food box being covered by British Iceland. The beach is Baldur a transport route today, and I don't think anyone will make a living. But in view of what happened. One senator, as well as an authority on both sides of the journey and the tools she has and on the other hand, says that in the historical context of the history of the current ferry and its models, we are approaching 100 years of this matter, the process of meeting today's standards, and pointing each. A senator there in security and comfort. Is it not, then, a modern standard in the context of the climate years ahead, that new processes will be driven by renewable energy sources and not fossil fuels at all? Because I understand the suggestion so that it may be a process of burning fossil fuels, which I think is a complete time error and in no way in any way the modern requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's a very good point. Of course, today's demand should be that new processes be driven by renewable energy sources. In fact, it is a wonderful project to show that governments are serious about transport change. If at any point there should be a square of renewable energy sources, it is on the break. The herd is a peaceful, full of nature. There are three things that are countless in Iceland; these are the islands of the Bjordfjord, the waters of the Eagle Sea River, and the hills of the Water Valley. This would be a good introduction to government energy policy and would open Brenufjörður to tourists. With regard to the local job structure, there is an indistinguishable potential in this area for tourism. Yesterday's bill was given for the change in the management of commercial fishing. That bill is virtually all about the Britishafjörður. It is a rural development in the region, and it is now referred to as building new filaments in Stykkisolmi. This sector will increase dramatically in the future as well as industrial and economic development on the farms. This will be useful for tourism and will clearly increase the population in the area. But today's crisis, and it's absolutely accurate, that it's going to be an electrical process. If Generalis wanted to go to Congress, it would have made the Vega go with and buy a modern electric vector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u98	Mr. President. I am so happy to hear it. A senator destroys my understanding of the report. And just to make this right, the government plans are very clear in this, and it's good to hear and to know that the group of Stockholm is saying that energy exchange is as important as they are. There is no other way, if we are going to renew important transport, such as squares and so forth, than to be driven by renewable energy sources. So thank you. A senator's appreciation for this subject is very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u99	President. Thank you. A senator for second answer. It is very good to hear how positive he is for this proposal for the interpretation of a new age in terms of safety and modern comfort and how he is moved. I'd like to point out what's going on. A senator is a senator, and I hope that the administrative body will respond to this proposal and how important it is that the ferry is powered by electricity. It's an environment. Imagine if oil leaked in the Freight, if a ship were to land. It would be disastrous if some thousand tons of oil were to go, if not tens or hundreds of tons of oil, into this area. There's a lot of blood vessels in there, and a huge number of islands. We could all be proud if the electric ferry came over there. That would be evidence that the government takes the energy exchange seriously and would be willing to place money on this ferry. There would be a lot of transportation for the West, and the British Restaurant would be able to get an electrical process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u100	Mr. President. I'm with an importer to this proposal for a British-earth shuttle. It's a case I've been speaking for a long time, and I thank the first official for presenting the case, and I was very willing to participate in following this critical matter. Travel over and over the British world has been a huge interest problem and has been a conflict of the local population. People of Brenafjörður and today also, on the increasing scale, are taking advantage of this route and further in transports and such things, and this has not been enough of a tune in recent years, as we know. There are many things to look forward to. We need to be able to move easily, and we also need to be able to secure transportation with Flatey, as well as a safety device. This is transport, there's opportunities for tourism and stuff. Since then, there has been an opportunity for us to make this perhaps one of the big new steps we take in energy exchange and public transportation, which should even encourage the government to do this, to take this as a special matter to follow up and be in the state of the environment, because of electrically powered, traveling along this path, and taking steps, an exciting opportunity to take such a step, and to take the lead in doing something about this. These matters have been discussed for some years. We know that there was almost an accident, not long ago, and there is a need to ensure that this is a secure process. There are so many other and more opportunities to make this journey possible. This was about what matters in such a ferry. Yes, comfort needs to be there. She needs to be safe. That's the value. It also needs to be environmental and transport. I come up here just to underline these points and why I'm involved in this case, and I want to see it through. I hope that there will be a sound foundation here at the council and good treatment, and that will soon happen in these matters, for I do not want to see the years go by without being taken in this more explicit interest of the local communities than has recently been.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator and a associate with this proposal for the talk. I agree with everything he says, and I think it's important and very good that the members of the board are also on this proposal. I hope that this matter will be well arranged in the Parliament too. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for the time frame. Does he believe that the ferry could not arrive relatively soon, and we could even celebrate the 100th anniversary of Baldur's new electric, modern - day, and safe ferry for Westerners and the British? I believe this is an enormous improvement for the rest of Breafjörður and an important project for future construction, both in tourism and also in the development of commercial sea vegetation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u102	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I may not be able to say anything else about the time frame but that I just hope that it will be as bad as it gets, and it'll be quick and quick. It is important that new ferryes, equipped with the qualities we discussed here, be on hand in the territory as soon as possible. We also need to make sure that this means of transportation is so that people want to take advantage of it. Then we will also come to see that the shipping and public transportation, as important as they are, must not be too expensive. Rather, we must be careful not to hold down costs, not let it up, and the government needs to stress support public transport of this kind and thus keep costs, to include spells and such on transporters and such ships that play such a significant role, even to keep them down or down. And now I speak as irresponsible, but I think it's an interesting idea to think about going further on it. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon has just proposed the material concerning the value tax on squares and ships. I feel that this is a point to look at, too, because we want public transportation to be both available and available so that people can easily apply them financially.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u103	A respectable president. The recent hour here at the council has been a bit of a travel clock, we've been talking about transportation, and we've been talking about the waterway, bridge, tunnel. We may be lucky that the British farm is at peace, so two of the three possibilities fall out. Some of us are now middle - aged enough to remember taking the Akra city from Avéri to Reykjavík. But it is important that all of us take care of transportation anywhere in the country. We're talking about a British shuttle and a whale. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson is on the motion. A senator, but it can't be like that. We may not be, so we're just pushing things forward for the sake of the district. This must be because we want to adjust transportation everywhere. There are many pots broken in transportation and, as I talked about here in my talk earlier today, we have to work together to fix these things. We need to work together to make sure that when we fix these things, we are also thinking about energy change and other things so that the environment will benefit. It's not good if all the trucks have to drive off the Westlands all the way along the Bayside, because there's a lot of steam out of it. An electrical vehicle may help to shorten or reduce such a course. We can argue over a number of things, but we know that it is very important to set up these routes, not just for the benefit of the local people, but for the more easily viewed by tourists as a natural bulb, for example. Bride is and Vestafari, but it also creates opportunities. This creates an opportunity for them to develop employment elsewhere but only here on the southwest corner, a job that will then create income back into national preparation because innovation does not just happen here in Reykjavík. A fine example of this is in the West, where we have one of the finest innovation companies in the country recently estimated at around 90 billion dollars, Kercis. It's from all over Iceland. This came as something new to make good use of our seafood and to do wonderful things on a global scale. It was on the West, not in Reykjavík. By building up a community where people can live anywhere, having safe and good transportation, the possibility of working and having the opportunity to pursue a ministry - all of this is important to make sure that we have innovation and construction anywhere. I think it's very important that we watch the British farm. How can we do this in a environmental way? How can we ensure transportation there but also go to all the other parts of the country where transportation is still in the lamoid mass, where we can find ways? And of course, if transportation plans are always between ten and 20 years of age and people say, " I might get a tunnel here when I'm 75 years old, then desperate people, and maybe I'll move away. ' We need to find a way. Our friends Witches as well. A senator mentioned earlier, e.g. Create a way to finance these tunnels they've been building. You pay to go to every tunnel. Maybe that's the way it is, maybe it's not the way it is. This is something we need to take and talk about, and not just throw eggs at each other when we're talking about it, but sit down and work it out together. So I'm happy to think of this proposal from the transporters and, like a bat, as it were. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson said that this should be a renewable energy. There's something you can hide behind. Environmental and Transport Committee. Let's just hope we all get to sail in our new Bjorn and enjoy that ravine of Breafjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-23-40.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank you. It is good to know of this excellent support that has been involved in the discussions, including those of the council members. I'm very pleased that two members of the board are associated with this case. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson of the Western Islands, a council member of the Southern District, and hva. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson, 4th. The Northwestern district, which spoke here and gave a very good speech. This, of course, concerns the whole country, the interests of the whole country, and it's good to hear that a Southwestern senator speaks up and declares support for the case. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is not one of the special interests of the region or the district in any way but the whole country. In fact, council members of the Northwestern district have a certain local standard knowledge and are in good contact with voters, and that was the case with this case. As I said in my speech, I've been using the ferry for years, ever since I was a kid. I remember that in the old days, the cars were hopping up to the old Baldur and then down to the train, there was an old fishing boat. I don't remember, at least I don't think they ever bought any new Baldursferja. I don't dare claim that, but I don't remember a new ferry being bought. It is extremely important that environmental transport is involved and support for what has been discussed in the discussion here is very good. It is certainly possible to change the proposal of the committee, and it will be decided that the ferry will be driven by renewable energy sources. That's a good thing to do. It is also important to be economically efficient so that it is not too expensive for the public to use it, it must be inexpensive for the public. It must be a real option for the Westerners to be able to choose between driving south, hopefully on a broken track, all over the British coast, or taking the ferry. By means of animal tunnels and transport reforms on the Dome, it is clear that Isolation, Bolvík, and Deepland residents will go this way south, leaving the Dolfland Island, so it is important to be able to choose between these means of transportation, ferry, or drive all the way. A new ferry would open up more easily. Last time they bought a less expensive ferry. It was found more expensive than fresher than it was bought inexpensive squares. Thus, it is of utmost importance in this case and also in the light of history that the General Assembly describes its will by the interpretation of the proposed market, that it meets modern standards for security and comfort, and that there will be potential access to it by renewable energy sources. When they start buying ferry, and the minister has been instructed to buy a new ferry that will be on the British Express, it is a success of road transport. That's why this case is solved because the last option was not chosen. This is of utmost importance now, too, in view of the importance of travel, including heavy transport, and especially for tourism. As we have seen, there is tremendous opportunities for the West, and this would be a great and powerful part of growing them. I think it would be really worth it and just great that by the 100th anniversary of the 2024 price was bought a new ferry. Then we can also remember that in 1924, Guðmundur Jónsson bought an old boat to sail with people and goods on the Frondir, and now we're going to buy new and modern squares to do the same cruises.
