ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of Porta's council that Thorhilda Sunna Ævarsdóttir will be absent in the near future. There have also been letters received from Jóhann Friðriksson, Sverrisdóttir Springsdjörðurdóttir, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir that they can't attend a meeting at the next meeting. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of the Pirata Arts of Southvest. "Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir, 1 strategist of the University of L.C., Fríða Þorvaldsdóttir, Halldóra 1. For example, the Friðjón of R. Friðjónsson, and the 1st Reserver of the Southern Union, Viktor Stefán Pálsson. Sjöfn Sjön Helgadóttir, the Pálsson of Friðjónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u2	The Halldóra Fríða's Þorvaldsdóttir has been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly and has to sign her vows to the Constitution. I want to pray. A senator writing under the scallop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u3	Halldóra Þorvaldsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to it. conducted in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u4	Borist has written a letter from Sigmundi Gunnlaugsson Gunvalsson, 7th. That's the north side. "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Therefore, it is requested that Ágústa Ágústsdóttir take his place at the General Assembly, a 3rd-time substitute on the Central Party list in the district. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! A campaign to Ágústa, the daughter of Ágústsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the vote and the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u5	V.E.G. President. The Commission and monitoring committee has been given to the treatment of national election reports of Ágústa's daughter, Ágústsdóttir, as the 3rd Presidency of the Central Party in the North East. The commission has been found to discuss the election and its votes and to recommend a unanimous vote by confirming the campaign of Ágústa' daughter of Ágústsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u6	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends a unanimous review of Ágústa's elections, and they consider it acceptable without a vote if no one moves back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u7	Ágústa Ágústsdóttir has not taken up residence at the General Assembly before and therefore shall be signed under the title of the constitution. I want to pray. A senator writing under the scallop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u8	Ágústa, the daughter of Ágústsdóttir, has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u9	The president wants to report that he has received a word from the United States Parliament on the change of committees, cr. 1.mg. Section 16. Congress, so that Kristrún Frostadóttir takes his place as an assistant to the Environment and Transport Committee instead of the Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Daughter and that Oddný Harðardóttir Hardyddóttir takes his place as a senior vice committee instead of Helga Vala Helgadóttir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u10	The President has received a letter from the Food Minister asking for every request in order to give written answers to questions on the roof. 372, design of fishing clinics, as well as threshing. 387, on the fishing line, both from Magnúsdóttir Hynu Island, and on the icicle. 383, on labour clearances, from Inga Sæland. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. Fifty-eight, on the status and employment rights for young people, from the Halla Signý Daughter of Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u11	A respectable president. June 13th. The General Assembly agreed to the mob's resolution of the stakeholders of older people. The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Social Affairs in addition to the Ministry's staff to create a bill for the legal office of the older people's stakeholders. The service group was to evaluate the best position and scope of such office. The task force was to provide the Minister with a bill for April 1, 2022, or about two weeks. Asking a minister shows that the group has not yet been appointed. The minister accepts only permission to ignore the law and the rules and says that he intends to take this group and give credit at the end of September 2022. There must be something strange about the Minister's authority that can only accept the permission to ignore the laws and rules and answer us how he interprets them and how he pleases to work on this matter. It must be a minimum requirement if a minister has to change something and cannot live up to the rules and laws that have been approved here at the council, that he at least communicates with the people's group, talking to us about what is suitable for us, but not what is right for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u12	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Guðguund of Ingi Kristinsson and I would also like to point out that now that we see a rising inflation and intensification, there is hardly one legal case brought here directly into the council that leads to the home accounting of people and families in the country, to housing, to vote, to the standard of living in general. Ministers express themselves out and down, they have some graphic statements about the rest and this, including what needs to be done to support the low income and the debt of a home, but there's nothing like that coming into this council. Now, however, the United States and other government groups have provided a number of members of Congress, which are in accordance with this precise standard of living, housing, domestic debt. We even have a case that the Ministers have spoken for, such as the staff of the index. This is the one and the one that could be settled, and I'd like to suggest to the President of the Generals that the next few weeks will set priorities for the issues involved in this unprecedented period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u13	Mr. President. I think I can only agree with each of them. People may not have talked about exactly the same things because this is in common that we are here dealing with a government that is hoverin, inconspicuous. First, it is natural that the government thinks it is possible to decide what it is doing and what it does not with a pact proposal approved by the entire Congress. To that end, I agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, who points to a number of conferences that the government has proposed to cope with increasing inflation and growth, supported by government ministers and the forward movement group. Now I propose that the president put these matters first and I encourage the management, at least them. who support us in this, using themselves to attack important and necessary home benefits because the government certainly does not intend to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u14	A respectable president. I'm getting a 'déjà vu' from what the situation was here two years ago. It's time for the example from abroad. Just now, Sweden was introducing counter measures for the homes - Norway, Britain, France. We were in exactly the same position two years ago, since one country after another was ahead of us in taking counter measures because of economic difficulties and again the government intends to stay behind. There's a political phobia. The rest and this is spoken of, but there is no issue here in the council, and it is not even willing to support the political issues that will be well implemented from the government side when considering the exact measures being under attack in the countries around us. Are we starting to see that after two, three, four, maybe nine months ago, as if two years ago, there will be a Senate hearing, and then there will be action when the inflation is out of control, when collective agreements are faced? Where are the Congress cases from the government that come to the position today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u15	President. When the council prepares a judicial hearing, it is important that we follow up on it. You'd think the government would do the work it's given to the council, which means we're democracy by Congress. Here you can talk about, for example. Pirata's declaration of access to digital carpenters approved in June 2018, has not happened since then, or has been taken into the European Space Research Institute approved on October 13, 2016, nothing yet, or a computer template for Congress documents, as well as in June 2016, nothing there. You have to think about what it's like to agree to the Congress arrangement when the government will not do anything about it. How are we to think about that when the government just says, "Yes, the Senate concluded by the council, we're just going to consider that we don't have to enforce it, for example. EU Memberal follow-up? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It doesn't work that way. [[The president calls.]] The government will have to come here and say that she's not going to do this, and she's going to decommission them if she's got the political guts to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u16	Mr. President. I come up here to agree with those who are critical of the pattern of drawing up here, that it does not seem to matter which consents are taking place here, how much more of the part is to be matter, as it seems to be, whether or not it is a petition for Ministers, an approved Synod of some task assigned to the council to act in behalf of the general public, the elderly in the case discussed, or whether it is a simple act of upholding the law. I kind of realize that we may have to move these projects into the Hall of Congress and speak well and talk long in the issues involved, since it seems that nothing will happen after the council has spoken their words with the approved facts and referred them to the European Commission. They simply tend to breathe there. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u17	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson referred to an example of one of the overwhelming number of unsupervised proposals adopted by the General Assembly, usually by all paid votes following contracts where the greater part allows it to go against some harmless case from the statesmen's side, so much is democracy. It's not the quality of things. They're not supported. No, it's some kind of head count. Each category receives one case, a max two cases at the end of the council that are agreed and then not done with it. I think we need to take this into consideration when it comes to our next council contracts. This is where we have been given this proposal for the people of Stockholm. What about measures due to shaving damage that would have led to some conclusion in June last year after Halldóra Mogensen's proposal had been adopted here in the Senate Hall? There's nothing that's in there. Then there are two suggestions from the Archipelago and the Pirates, also approved for the last spring that has arrived at the time before the end of this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we should take it a little seriously if there's no such thing as an outcome before we sit down at Congress treats because it just doesn't seem to have anything to do with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u18	A respectable president. There are agreements ahead where governments will play a very important role. It is very serious that at the beginning of a collective contract, the government has not yet fulfilled promises made at the signing of the 2019 biographer agreement. One of those promises is a reimbursement for tenants, a change in rents, a measure of protection, e.g. against a sudden rise in rent height. This is of utmost importance now when it appears that rent prices are about to rush up and pursue real estate prices. Other bodies, e.g. the theft of pay. Nothing's been done. Nothing has come into this council to deal with it. This was promised in the contract of life. The housework bill was on the Constitution and was supposed to be here on January 31st, if I recall correctly. It won't hurt. So I think it's very important, just for the social stability and optimal conversation that we're going to be able to deal with, and this will show up as soon as possible so that the council also have time to discuss this properly and make sure it's done properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u19	A respectable president. There's a pattern in the government. We've discussed business issues and put them through to Covid, and it's been going well. And that's just cool. But when it comes to setting priorities for the people, the elderly, the legalization of the contract on the affairs of disabled persons, disabled persons, or returning applications to the General Education Committee for Refugees - we see exactly where the pattern lies, who are acceptable to the government and who are not. Clearly, the elderly are not, they are not. It seems that the only thing that this government can come through and make quickly and wisely if it concerns the companies, not the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u20	A respectable president. I'm naturally particularly interested in the affairs of the households and their situation during these difficult times in 6.2% of inflation. Foreign nations deal with domestic affairs, not with them. What separates us from all other nations is a curse of insurance. The impact of inflation in Iceland will be much higher in our homes than any impact of inflation is at home in Europe where there is no insurance policy, as would normally never be among civilized nations. These effects may not occur immediately this year, but they will occur soon thereafter. The only thing about taking the staff from the index number, which I recommended last week on behalf of Inga Sæland, would change quite enormously, but it can't even be done. Clearly, homes are just to be allowed to sail and be shaken into existence, just as was done since the 2008 collapse of the bank. It ended with a panic that many have not yet recovered and will not even recover completely. You can't do that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u21	A respectable president. I agree with what's been going on here today. More than anything at the council wants to meet the needs of the public in the country. Although government ministers are adamant when it comes to these necessary tasks now that the inflation is more than 6%, I still believe that within the parties, there are even individuals, I want to believe what I want to help the people of this country. I challenge the senators to follow the Constitution and to follow their own convictions in these matters. We support good works, even support proposals of government opposition when it comes to necessary assistance to the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u22	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with other members of the council who have already spoken and in line with the big film that is being described here, whether we are talking about growth and inflation in the pursuit of collective agreements or other urgent issues that concern the public much, and I think that has been doing with issues and bills that now seem less than to be present in a new government but also answers to queries. I asked the highest. HCPs, e.g. At the beginning of December, what would help the government's action on an approved law from the Council? The General has agreed to a law on subsidizing psychological services, but it also seems to be insufficient. It is sometimes as if the government here, as fine as it is, and as large as it is now, is in fact not much more than just a seminar.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u23	President. I think this is a bit of an important discussion because there has been a political possibility in this discussion about how the council approves, and then there's a new government that just doesn't agree with it and just doesn't want to follow what the Senate says. The correct conclusion, of course, is that the government has a suggestion to remove that synonym, just do what the council says. It's not that complicated. I find the example of the digital carpenters involved in digital carpenters, which I and I were in. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter provided a very good example, since we were very active in our case. The pressure added, made the demand greater, for additional access to digital carpenters. All the senators and Ministers then agreed to a synopsis proposal, more than we asked. We asked for the minimum in the first place. No, it was given and it hasn't been done anything yet. It's not just that cases are dying on committees, they're also dying in government, and it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u24	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson and others who have discussed the economic situation here. Where are the Congress cases affecting the homes of the country in these economic circumstances? Sweden was right in this regard to presenting a counterimbursement for the houses at a value of 8 billion dollars. a package if we relate it to the country's income. I simply advertise a matter of public status. Why is the situation in this country not being taken into account today? What inflation rate is the highest. A government to wait to get started? Is it 7%, 8%, 9%? In what kind of environment do we need to look up and take into account the situation in the country today? There have been reports from counsellors within this government of all kinds of home support ideas. You might think the party is not at the top. A government, not having the authority to promote Congress and act against action. It's nothing but a game of speech. There has to be a matter for the general public in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u25	A respectable president. For me as a new senator, this will consider the timing of the election. Don't you think it's ridiculous just to keep elections so late, come into Congress just before New Year's Eve, and try to put together the budget to finish it at this time of the year and stay behind with all creation? Since then, Swedish authorities have taken action. They're even. To look at the shapes of gasoline, which could be taken in here quickly and carefully. So there are many options that can be taken now that would help people. I mentioned it here in a pita the other day, that you can enter the transfer system and spit into compensations for badly-set homes. It's just something we don't have to do any more than we need to do right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u26	President. This is of utmost importance. We speak here about the respect of the council, and we see that the public trust in the council and the public institutions has been rising a little bit, but is not at the place we would like to have it. Let's put this into context. When a council proposal or a Senate hearing is approved here in the Hall of Congress, for example. Just a proposal for a psychological service adopted here by Congress to substantiate psychological services. I have talked to people who have experienced tremendous difficulties in life, who cannot afford to go to a psychologist who is one of them living, and who was so happy that they could get to a psychologist for the first time. And then lets the highest. The secretary of finance will see that he has an interview after this and that he does not think of paying for it at all. I know a few of the people who cried, really, just cried when these news came. [[The president calls.]] This is our responsibility. Why are we really willing to accept any matter of Congress here in this hall for which the execution of the Agency has no respect, no respect? [[The president calls.]] And why are we asking the nation to respect us when we have no respect for them? [[The president calls.]] It's not possible. This needs fixing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u27	A respectable president. Yes, it is one thing to accept and refuse to comply. It is another to agree to Congress decisions and not to finance them. It's one thing not to answer queries - I sent e.g. One to the highest. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry did not even ask for time to postpone the deadline, but the answer was to be made last week. We must begin to show respect for one another at the order of the council that we can work together contraryly with one another. There is one thing to be in more part, another thing is to be in more parts and know how to work with the smaller parts of doing what the people of the country all chose to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u28	A respectable president. Because I came here earlier and talked about the failure of the government when it comes to meeting the people of the country because of a difficult economic situation, I feel compelled to join the members of the council and industry. When Congress laws are passed by the General, ministers in this government flout it. When bills are passed by the General Assembly and by the law, ministers in the government will allow themselves to ignore them as well. What is the message being sent to the public, our employers, that ministers can only do exactly what they want to do no matter what the General Assembly orders, the Supreme Democracy Agency? [[The president calls.]] It's like they don't have to do what's approved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u29	Mr. President. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir The Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, who meditates on the possibilities that may exist when Congress laws are adopted and the government is directly against them, pointing out that they can deliver them from the table in a vote. I don't think there's anything to worry about. The doctrine of political impossibility was presented seven years ago in the highest court. Secretary of finance. I think it was false when her left green week basic policy in foreign affairs and entered the government and participated in the same national security policy that they had protested before. So let us not worry about it. Here, the council has adopted a synonym, many of them through the years, and the government is simply supposed to follow it. All political impossibility theories are out - of - date.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u30	A respectable president. In the Treaty, we can read about the beautiful promises of improving the workforce and trying to create an environment that can make a contract acceptable. But I can't see that in the position that she now looks like she's been trying to raise a little finger to try to create that situation. Everything's on the move. We have an inflation we haven't seen these past decade. We have gasoline on our way up, we have food prices on our way up, we have housing costs on our way up. Here we just sit quietly, just gracefully in our chair, and nothing happens. The labor movement shows no understanding of this position and it will not. She's sharpening her teeth now, and there's going to be a lot of gaping.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u31	V.E.G. President. I come up here to ask the President to take the vital signs from the government. It's like it doesn't run the blood on the Ministerial Class. Actually, people are very busy looking at their phones. Most of us are rather active here in the hall to do so. Where's your ambition? Where is the politics of this government? How should these assignments be made on a schedule that is of utmost importance? There is life crisis throughout Europe. It's all governments taking appropriate action. There are men sitting in their phones waiting for the release of collective agreements. And what will they do? When will blood flow into the government body of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter? When does this nice tea party stop and people start using themselves in a political way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u32	A respectable president. Since I'm a deputy senator and an active psychologist when I'm not here, I kind of couldn't believe what happened here during the last term and what's still happening, that there's not being subsidized psychological services. I can barely speak. I don't really believe, since I come in here as a deputy, how this works -- or doesn't work, if you want to say it like that. I'd like to speak on behalf of the common people, since I don't always sit as a member of the council, and say that our trust in the people sitting in the government isn't on many fish. So having something passed by the law and then not being made up or financed is kind of unbelievable, like a lie. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u33	Mr. President. The stage following Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir is a good one. A deputy councilman, because she asked questions earlier in the winter about the government's operations program since 2018 to reduce the number of suicides. What did the reply show? There are 54 operations in the schedule, five of which have been initiated or completed. So, yes, we have to be quite complaining about how the government deals with the suggestions that we receive adopted here in the hall, but they are now not much better with a number of their own issues, such as reducing our suicide rates, at the same time as spiritual problems, have probably never been greater. I recently asked questions about how to implement a plan adopted at the General Assembly on anti-violence and its consequences, which are quite another disaster in recent years. I suspect the answers will be similar there; much speech, little done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u34	Consider: Food Ministers, Environment, Energy and Climate Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Culture and Business Ministers, Education and Children's Ministers, University, Industrial and Neo-Progression, Ministers of Justice and Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u35	President. V.E.G. Environment Minister recently published a report and an assessment of energy positions and challenges with reference to the objectives and emphasis on the government on climate issues. The objective was to draw up facts based on professional views and energy information on available forms for government, management and public information. However, professional views did not extend beyond the fact that the authors of the Green Book do not make any independent assessment of stage films. Rather, they include the stage-based reports of energy companies which returned in the calculated set of images that were, excusing the sledge, President, just copies of the report. The head of the Green Book group says that in the next 18 years, there will be a need to build the values of the five Granddaddy Engineers in Iceland. The policy is to expand the economy at an alarming rate, to run up the economy with energy exchange. While other nations are changing their consumption habits, the management of transport systems, and the adaptability of their society to climate change, the European government intends to take advantage of the journey and use energy exchange to expand the growth and drive up economic growth. A voice of natural protection was in the form of this report, for natural protection organizations had virtually no time to respond, a very familiar theme, to give them enough time to respond. What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? Minister of the Environment Ministry, I'm just asking? Clearly, it's not to be a voice of nature protection. What was the greatest inheritance of all. A minister who leaves behind when he leaves office? Is he going to become the Minister of England, the bottom-up for energy companies and industry and use climate as a villain for that? Or is the Minister going to do something a little bigger?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u36	A respectable president. I'm very disappointed if Porta's group is going to speak here in headlines and speak against our activities in climate. If anyone believes for one second that the world is going in some way. A senator pointed to it, if anyone believes it for one second, I'll encourage you. Senators and all others who do this to get on the Internet and see what's happening in the world. What's happening in the world is that we're fighting the climate problem, and that's what we do by going from fossil fuel to green energy. That's what we're doing together with other things. Without a doubt, that is the biggest operation. The discussion was very successful, and this is a major project to work out. Then perhaps it's just that, a respectable president, that's why. Councilmen who are not willing to add weights to the scales in the fight against the climate when it comes to it. Of course, if a person believes that something is wrong in this report and others, he should make it known. This is done as beneficial as possible. It's on the net already, huh? All the information they want is readily available to members of the Parliament. If there is something that you think can be done better, let it be done only by means of perfunctory comments. But we're not going to make any further progress in these matters just with big promises and headlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u37	President. The Green Book is written by the stakeholders of the big industry at the Society of Industrial Affairs. We live in a time where there are many conditions that make it viable to live on our planet that delivers us, which gives us birth. Much of the problem is that we live in an economic system based on ideologies of linear, infinite economy on a planet that does not have infinite resources. The fact is, we are the world's biggest electric manufacturer on the basis of population levels, the largest. We produce twice as much on each individual as Norwegians in second place. 80% of this energy goes to an aluminium, a silica plant, and a data plant. It's not about us needing more energy. It's how we put our priorities. How does this priority-separation now serve, the highest. Minister? For future generations, we do not have to be more active than we have to set priorities for nature, but not for short - term profits and economic growth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen? Ministers to do anything other than make Iceland an outlet for industry? That's my question. What will he do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u38	A respectable president. This green book is not for the sake of the industry and if it is. A senator has studied it's about, in large part, what we do need a lot of energy in the energy exchange. I think it's important that men speak clearly, and I thank you. A senator and Pirata for speaking against economic growth. Then it's just a matter of time. There's one group against interest. There are terrible news for those in need, e.g. Government expenditures to keep. Then I speak of the poor, of those who need the health of the house, and of the shoes, and of such things as this. A senator is saying to these people: We're going to take a living standard in the country, we're going to cancel a public service. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is telling you what to do. þm. Björn the Leví of Gunnar is pleased with this. [[Up front.]] Iceland and I were exchangeing energy before everybody else, and we can be very proud of it, and this did not just do good for the environment. [[... what are you going to do else...?]] This did not do just good for the climate. It also did good for the economy and increased our competitive motive in these areas. We are now going on that trip, of course, to non-employment people, and it's the Congress of Porta, to go to the third energy exchange, and it's good for us Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u39	The president reminds both senators and Ministers to respect the time limited in unsubstantiated inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u40	A respectable president. Let us speak only of children, of services to children, and not just of some phrase but of direct facts. Last December, 738 children waited for analysis at the Development and Behavioral Station. What was the average waiting time? Yeah, 1,2 breakdown4 months. These are children who suffer from ADHD, children with autism, anxiety, behavioural problems, and every week who go by without their children getting adequate service is also a week too much. This can prevent them from developing, and it is serious. Children with very serious developmental disorders are received at the State Advisory and diagnostic centre. There were 326 children on the waiting list in December, and a common waiting period is up to 22 months. The number of waiting lists has increased, and since the reign of the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir, the country's daughter has increased and then the highest. Minister of Ásmundur Daðason Davidson took over the office of Child Affairs. This is primarily because the budget and, of course, the number of employees are not in any way consistent with the actual need for service. We'll see that ecosystems and treatment homes are closed and our business is transferred to private hands. A babyhouse is a long crack, says director of the Children's and Family Room, and now it's more and more of a successful bill. Unless the meaning has always been to reexamine the entire burden of rural society without allowing financial support to follow, a minister is abstinent. Now, the government has adopted a financial policy where financial spending is expected for the next few years so that the scope for growth according to that policy is very limited. That's why I want to ask. How much of this space will be used to deal with these long models and to cope with the failure to perform the necessary services for children? How's the top? Minister of Ásmundur Daðason Davidson to deal with the gravely serious problem that has grassed and has progressed on his watch?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for this inquiry, saying that to handle long lists, money is certainly needed, but that is not just the missing things. For example, funding has been increased to legislation and diagnostic centres and has been added to Children's House. An increasing conversation is needed between those who provide this service because often the same experts are working for more than one person to provide for children. More staff need to be educated, and all the details between these partners need to be explained. We are going to accept the greatest problem first, which is the resources that may include. It's under a mature and behavior station, because of it. A senator mentioned it. We had a good two - hour work meeting last week, as we were preparing to do so. We also have discussions with the current social and workforce minister, and we strive to provide a basis for how we're going to handle these factors either this week or the next. Because the senator claimed that there was no more money to make children's house, we have increased funding during our last term in the Children's House, including the Children's House. because we knew there would be increased stress on the children's house associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. I also pointed out that two years ago the Children's House of Children was opened up in Akureyri. So there is absolutely no need for increased funds to continue into Children's House, including children's House. to deal with the consequences of Covid-19. Then there's a lot of talk that the thought of a success law based on, where we're putting less than 2 billion a year into the establishment of that legislation, is fundless and unfavourable, and has no support in the real world. However, a review of all child - care options needs to be made. In that covenant, we will make rules or legislation about maximum waiting time for needed service. The work has begun in the new Ministry of Education and Children, but we are going to take on some of the weightier options first. That's what we've started. They need extra funding, but they need conversation too. [[The president calls.]] It's not just about funding. [[The president calls.]] We have even that. see in the Advisor and Analysis Centre, like what. A senator mentioned in his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to pray to the highest. Minister not to speak to me of the underdevelopment of the Children's House specifically, i.e. that the government has not raised money for it, of course it has. But that doesn't change the fact that the director of a children's and family room has been completely clear about children's house being blown up. Bills and meetings and press conferences do not help children who are in the corner, children in the waiting lists. We were talking about a consulting and diagnostic station and the highest level. Minister says there was an increase in funding. But I'm just going to let me quote a review from a child's agent, who we must heed: The aims to improve early support cannot be met without the elimination of the waitings, but this effort requires increased funding for state analysis and counseling centres. This was said by an agent of the children last year, and she used the word advising the lack of adequate funding for the Agency. It pointed out that some 80 million single - handed contributions are not close enough to handle this. So, what did the government do? Yes, under the budget of the year 2022, contributions to legislative and diagnostic centres will be directly reduced, both now and in the following years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna wait to the highest. Children's Minister of Affairs to come up here and promise that he will live up to his name as a child - care minister, beat on the table at a government meeting, and see to it that this programme will be abandoned for the necessary services of children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u43	A respectable president. It's clear to me that in order to deal with children's affairs, extra funding is needed. It is, however, that there are other factors that need to be performed. There I specifically referred to the conservancy and analysis center because we've been setting up funds that are not yet available, including because there's a total failure between systems. There's an disorganization between systems. There's no explanation, people working in many places. This is what we're going to get together now and work between ministers. As I said, we, me and the health minister, were at a two - hour work meeting for the weekend where we were building this and I've had discussions with a social minister as well, and we're going to take this heavy end. We are going to do so. We're working on a particular organization that was starting at the foundation, starting with the success legislation, and bringing it in, and then taking the heavy end. Then we need to reevaluate all resources because this too is so that we should be able to use more practical measures sooner in order not to land on this weight end later, and that work is at the same time. We're gonna deal with this, and I promise you what. A senator because I will do everything I can to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u44	Are you going to reduce your donations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u45	A respectable president. If a certain national disease of the Icelanders was to be identified, it would likely be primarily spiritual. On the basis of a ballot number, we likely have a worldwide record of those who suffer from severe anxiety and depression, and many of these appear to be growing from year to year. In view of this, no one should be surprised to learn that a world record also covers the number of prescribed antipsychotics of various ways, drugs many of which are causing difficult side effects. It is true that two - year - old Covid somnolence here has made a bad vision worse and then it is broken down by a frightening invasion, a war that causes serious heartache here as in other places. The waiting lists of specialists and psychiatrists have never been longer, and they have become increasingly extended. As often has been pointed out, including. In this hall, our quality of life will never be bound exclusively to the crowns and changes of money. The persistent feelings of thousands and tens of thousands of young people, older people, desperate and civilians in Iceland are a serious problem we should face and take action not only by sedation the symptoms with medication. It is now obvious that the number of Covid infected people has never been as great as right now. Deaths in the past six months have been almost twice as many as the deaths of the 18 months preceding the pandemic. In addition, it is such progressive violence of Russian warriors that we learn of from day to day and that without doubt cause more distress than we do before us. Therefore, it is not long time for a respectable president to direct that challenge to the highest degree. Health Minister that a special staff of well - chosen specialists who are taking this problem to attention with a view to identifying the real roots of this grave health problem? Such a team of experts would continue to offer practical suggestions for best improvement. The task force would be made available to provide information on the results of laboratory studies from other countries that could help to identify what may be behind these disturbing and distressing mental health problems of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Minister of health that we act here immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u46	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir We're looking at the scene here in Jakob Frímann Magnússon. There are many armed forces and problems. When it comes to mental - health issues, it is easy to conclude that during a pandemic, the benefits have been made. We have responded with special monitoring groups in that area. Hv. A senator stated that it would be a national obligation to appoint a group of men to put their arms around this picture and what it has been. Among other things, on the basis of this monitoring and reporting of the monitoring groups, both at the Department of Health and at the Department of Social Affairs and on the provision of an official surgeon, a group working on the basis of a mental health policy, including a mental - health policy, has been established. Based on the results of a mental - health conference, which my predecessor here joined with many good people. As a result, this very wide group of people are working on a mental - health programme that similarly follows this course in line with health policy until 2030. So yes, the answer is definitely yes. This, of course, is what we need to do, not just because this problem has gone through the epidemic, but because of the fact that we should have opened the way against this problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. But I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about going to the depth of this and identifying what hasn't been previously diagnosed. I have asked many, both psychologists and psychiatrists: What is the explanation for this strange, eccentric mental - health problem? No one's made a satisfying answer. I haven't heard a credible answer. Some say, " It's the community media, man, don't you understand? ' It's wintertime or something else. I'm talking about going to a serious scientific analysis of what causes this. Why is the situation here so much more serious than anywhere else, and what do we do? This is not just the question of what happens to you but how you respond to what happens to you. So I'm asking for a deep, comprehensive study report on exactly this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u48	V.E.G. President. I'll catch it as a what? paritaprevir According to Jakob Frímann Magnússon, going to the depth of scientific analysis of what is going on. There's one thing I'm going to bring up this issue to support; it may be that we need a deeper analysis of this problem. Perhaps this is a cumulative problem that arises because we were too late to respond to it or have resources to cope with this cumulative problem, e.g. anxiety problems, such as fits. A senator says. We've developed new things in mental health care, special mental health care teams at the clinic, etc, but it may be that we need to investigate the causes further and that's what I'll do, and I'll take it with me from this inquiry. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u49	Madam President. We must be happy when business is successful in the community, but we must also point it out in a very focused and refreshing way when figures from the showdown give rise to them. The seaside company Brim made over 11 billion profit last year. The company pays more than four billion dollars for the money, but it pays 900 million for the right to catch our fish all of us. We also gain over 11 billion dollars, $3.4 billion in profits, while hunting costs for the catch of all of us were 500 million. It's obvious that there's a fairy tale error in these numbers. The cost is satisfying, but the ratio of profits to the State in the form of fishing costs is far too low. The access to the resource costs too little. Sadly, this is an old story and new, and it would be an original view of reality to expect that the policy of this government would change much, especially because the Independence Party is playing in the elite department when it comes to putting up defense for its development. Or what? Perhaps the government's content of hope can be concealed if words come true. V.E.G. A few weeks ago, a business minister raised the issue of changing conditions in the sealand, and it was time to increase the payoff. V.E.G. In this context, a minister used the word "heavenly " and" super - economic " in this regard. At the same time, the minister said that the Parliament's party was all of this. This means crystal complete that there is more in the council for raising fish costs, even though the rest of the government groups did not agree with it. What will be the result? Will a minister fulfill the great words, follow them, as real leaders do, and make the majority of the Parliament's will dictate whatever the government wishes, and the nation gain a higher and more just price for the resource? I'm going to the top. Minister to resort to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for the inquiry, and to begin by saying that he will establish a very important subject in our community, i.e. how we divide these riches and how we have a righteous wage. The nation's seabeds are doing very well. We know that there is a lot of profits, and one of the things that have been going on because of technology is that fewer are involved in production and other things, and the profits and profits have been growing dramatically. It's my opinion that these matters need to be considered better. We need to examine it when certain jobs are beginning to make huge profits, and I believe that it is their own will to make their society more money. I believe it is natural and reasonable to the community to do so. It's not just business, I mentioned the banking system the other day, it's also about the banking system. I really appreciate the progress of this government that I'm in, and I'm not surprised that we'd surprise you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u51	Madam President. I wouldn't be surprised if we were to surprise you. - They don't really get much clearer answers. That was extremely clear, asking, and shooting at something refreshing around, such as the highest. A minister may be apt to do so. The question is simple. There is a more serious matter for raising the cost of hunting. This matter of Congress is very clear. Now the question is, is the highest. Whatever the government's will, a minister will use himself to make it clear to make sure that the nation gets more reasonable gains? I welcome the highest words. Minister, in the leading of this cold answer, that it would be good for those who could pay more? I'm going to the top. The minister to make sure the Senate is in charge of this? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u52	A respectable president. It's always a bit fun to be here when people get frustrated, and I feel kind of bad. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson was frustrated. That was a very clear and powerful answer to the secretary of business because it is quite clear... [Laughter in the Hall of Congress. - Hear how the people are doing, the Chairman of the Cradle once again, as inconspicuous as it is now. [[For example, consider: Jesus.]] - Yeah, I just want to make this statement here, I just want to do it. But what I wanted to say can I talk? [[Up front.]] Once again, the chairman of the Archipelago begins, she can't control himself. But what I wanted to say: Yes, we will use ourselves. We are involved in politics to influence, and we certainly did this during the last terms, and we will continue to do so. What I think is going on at Uphresun - she's just nervous. They are taking the lead in the groups of languages that are important to the nation, on the fishing grounds. [[The president calls.]] I remind you of that. The chairman of the restoration was a seafaring minister. [[The president calls.]] What did she do? Nothing. Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u53	Madam President. After the recent 1990s of the European government's brambles to the European Commission and to the determination of its break-down activities, so I don't talk about the ever-growing import of commercially produced food for far too long, it should be explained today to all the importance of an island in the North Atlantic to be as independent as possible when it comes to domestic basic food production, whether it is going to deal with grain, beef industry, vegetables, or vegetables, or food, it is the basis for a three-life of life in this country. If the current government decides to wake up from this gentle slumber, I ask the highest. Minister if she has plans for protecting and promoting European basic food production, and if so, how will she implement it? Has the highest. Ministers intend to use their power to tighten imports and to create a more balanced and natural competitive environment between local and foreign food manufacturers?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is an enormously important group of subjects. A senator here touches a domestic agriculture. We have agricultural contracts that apply in 2026 and can be said to be the most important government control tools to influence the area in which domestic agriculture develops. The next year, 2023, these contracts will be revised. At that review, we will focus primarily on providing food security in Iceland by promoting domestic agricultural production. The government is now in consultation with food policy policies, i.e. It's a whole class of paintings. It reviews the work of the newcomer in the ideal period of eating policies for Iceland. It will work out the available development of agrienvironmental policy that will be proposed at the same time or as part of the food policy. There are tremendous opportunities in domestic agriculture, and part of it consists of the next reexamination of agricultural contracts. We also suggest, and we will suggest that the emphasis on agriculture will be altered in reducing the production of support and further support development of rural habitats independent of production, as well as increased emphasis on land culture, other land uses, land management and climate, as well as increased vegetable production and extensive organic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u55	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, it will be interesting to observe the progress of what she mentioned above. But I would like to ask another question. Since domestic basic food is the nation's lifeline, it is necessary for them to have certain specialists in my opinion because of their special status on an island in which the borders of other countries are far away, and war - related and global crisis can easily close our veins to the continent. Will that be the case? A minister would take advantage of the basic food industry to get its electricity consumption in the same way or even lower ideals that its biggest users receive today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u56	A respectable president. Hv. A member of this body is acting on a very important role that contributes to the electricity cost of vegetable production, and this is of great importance, as it is specifically discussed in the Government Treaty of the Government. But I'd like to mention, in addition to the factors I studied earlier, energy exchange for agriculture and improved transport. This is a better application and increased production of domestic applications. All the measures resulting in increasing the impact of the cycle economy, reducing carbon spores, reducing climate impacts, and thereby strengthening and supporting national food security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u57	Madam President. The present situation in Europe is frightening and frightening. All of us are aware of our insignificance in this context. What I find important is that the speech that is being spoken inside and outside of a congregation is a matter of responsibility and not of fear, for there is plenty of sorrow. In terms of safety and protection, there have been some findings, the current situation, which vision differs from that of the future. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Minister. In view of the situation in Ukraine, the discussion of safety and protection has been high and I would like to ask the highest level. Secretary of State on its assessment of its benefits for the national safety and protection of Iceland's European Union. As for me, I'd like to ask myself, " What is the minister's position on accepting member talks in the middle of a crisis situation? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The European Union and the states in the EEA are truly our friends and alliances. It even reflects. and mainly in the EEA treaties that I am very pleased with and that we are pleased with and are very supportive in the new Icelandic community. It is not necessary for mine to compare the safety benefits of EU Member States with what we have since. Iceland is a member of NATO, with 80% of the military strength and the European Union combined with 20% in mind, so it does not take much additional attention to security and defenses for us to become members of the European Union. It is also in my mind that there is no need for us to speculate about this now or to be involved in some form of intertwining about the European Union and the Atlantic Union. The fact is, there are so many values that we share together. Of course, everyone is free to bring up whatever they vote for as the European Union groups have done, and there is nothing wrong with saying that if there are any who count the opportunity to speak specifically for the EU community in relation to what is happening. But I don't see it as a very logical step at this time, and none of what has happened now changes my view that Iceland is very well cooperated in its international cooperation in the EEA region with involvement in the Atlantic Community and, in addition, a defense agreement with the United States. [[The president calls.]] So I don't think applying for involvement in the European Union, especially when there is no political support for it within the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u59	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I would like to use the short time I now have to ask the highest. Minister more deeply into her position. This was a discussion of the report of a minister last week, and we heard very clearly from a former foreign minister who simply said: The European Union will never protect us. As the Minister points out, this division, this 20%, is not a reason for national defence or security. There is no reason to walk in the European Union on this basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u60	Madam President. The most important thing to me is that we are going through the EEA to achieve both the cooperation and the benefits of Icelandic society and the international cooperation of the European Union in an adequate way. Again: I wish the European Union a success in all their work assignments in this regard, and we support them for all good works, and we have done so. However, for a discussion of the European Union of Iceland today, there is no basis for me to store some form of anti-evangelism on the European Union. I hope we just have the maturity to put things in proper perspective. This invasion of Ukraine by Russian government and Russian President is not a matter of our involvement there or not, and the involvement in Iceland is also not about that invasion. We are the European Union's friends and alliances, work very closely with them through the EEA Convention and will not be wary or defensive on the European Union but will protect us through the Atlantic Alliance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u61	Madam President. I come up here to make a comment on the conduct of the associate secretary of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir's daughter because of her conduct with a reverendist, Sigmar Guðmundsson, who comes up here and uses the program called unprepared inquiries to make a completely perfunctory and proper inquiry to the minister. A minister is unable to answer the question, apparently due to personal ill will toward the chairman of the woodfront, an ill will that a minister himself will have to answer for, if he trusts, from which source. However, this presentation here at the council Hall in terms of affairs involving Congress and nation is completely unscrupulous. Now, the minister of this matter is not directly at the tip of those who have lifted the way and respect of the Generals to the fullest extent. But, Madam President, there are some limits and I would have liked to see a president intervene in this ill situation earlier. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u62	A respectable president. I have to come here and only discuss this matter. I answered why. Senator. It's my opinion that there's a need to pay extra money on a business that's going to bring a lot of cash. That was very clear. On the other hand, I believe that this personal ill is much more likely to be committed by the Council of Congress for the Minister. I've got to say, as it is, I've only rarely seen what's happened. A senator as excited when she comes here in a pita, either to ask the highest. Minister to any subject or subject... [[... personal matters...]] [[What's the Minister talking about here?]] [[The president calls.]] Can I get it? I'm going over this, okay? A senator, that I answered the inquiry objectively and had prepared that lawsuit very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u63	Madam President. It was for itself fine at the highest. A minister would have been clear about the need for more income from the fishing road. But what happened was true. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's masswoman, did not answer this simple question. A senator would know if she would use the strength of the council that was here. Instead, she spent most of her time attacking the Chairman of the Archipelago. I'd like to call attention to something else, Madam President. Last year, we decided to put down what was called the same thing when the members of the third energy package were asking each other and running justice. Is it not time, too, in uncivilized inquiries that governments cannot be communicating with one another and calling out for something predictable? Why don't we rather let this be a conflict and a conflict of opinion between government opposition and government officials?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u64	Madam President. Now it has become frightening to counsellors to show up more with renovations than without prepared inquiries. You may be able to forgive the highest. Business minister that she's out of training, that's the first inquiry directed to her in the season of election. [[Up front.]] But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the environmental minister was also burned here today when he began to cry out: "The Senator hates economic growth, which I thought we had grown up about 15 years ago in environmental discussions. But no, there's a dinosaur in the Environment Ministry who thinks that people who want to disappear from merely focusing on economic growth, no matter how they come into existence, will design the basis for sustainable society somehow outing to drive. And this piece is well marked by a climate policy adopted by the last environmental minister. This is the official policy of the government in which the Minister sits, but he's not a sleazier than he's going for him not even to know how to do it. He only knows the old center since he was a big business member of the government, and he uses it as his department for the Ministry. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here in the context that the president of the council is the president of all the council, and surely we see it often happens here in a Senate hall that a president takes over his tools and shows his power when members of the council, even members of the council, have gone too far. It didn't happen this time for some reason. Do you hear what the people are doing? A word of the highest order. Minister. Do you hear what the people are doing? V.E.G. Secretary is here to speak to the Generals. Do you hear what the people are doing? These are the words. That's respect. No response from the administrative sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u66	Madam President. I think I'll have to agree with the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Gunndar, to pray to the highest. President to assist the council now. This irreverent lack of respect. Business and cultural ministers are totally driving through the back here. She speaks down senators in a hurry, speaks of people being frustrated, speaks of how the people act, cries out to people: "It's as easy to speak as it is, and it's determined. Senators just have no control over themselves. Every time it's the highest. A minister comes up here in a pit, and she's acting like this, and he says she's just never seen any senators this close. Why don't you just answer the subject in here? This performance is below all caves, a respectable president. We just have to get some help. V.E.G. The minister will do this in a hurry, and rarely she will come up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u67	Madam President. Now it may well be, in view of the fact that this has been the case. A minister doesn't often come here, that she thought she was talking to the Ministry. It could possibly be the way the speech is on the side of the highest language. Minister. But this doesn't work out here, and coming up to answer to them and making it appear to be an accident and a compliment that I was angry and excited when I went up before. Yeah, I was angry and upset because I'm kind of upset, and nothing special for the head of the reverend, the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, she can defend herself, and this is probably not the worst thing she's ever heard, although possibly from here out of the hall, but in the presence of the Generals because it doesn't go anywhere. There's got to be a trace of a chemical approach somewhere in the conversation. And to have answered the subject in the first question - it may also have been forgotten by the highest degree. The minister here has two rounds, and this is the senator who determines how he makes his questions, not the highest. Minister, no matter how a minister, what shall we say, rages. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, it's not possible.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u68	Madam President. I think it's a bit crazy of the highest. Minister to speak here to a politician in a way that makes her upset, unable to control herself, is stressed. It may now be at the highest level. A government minister of culture and trade has been knocked down with his ideas to meet a low income home due to rising inflation and interest, to place on higher bank taxes, even whale tax on major repairs. This is something she was talking about now a few weeks ago, and she told the entire Congress party that's behind them. It may well be at the top. A minister is frustrated that he has been struck down with this because as soon as she called for these paths. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister forward, saying nothing of this being on the drawing table. But we must make that requirement the highest. A minister is not the result of these cases coming into this council and specifically identifying the members of the council in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u69	Madam President. Yeah, it's weird. We're here to talk about words of the highest order. A minister who seems to have run off the scene instead of discussing matters objectively. I thought before, I might have been confused, not come into the Senate Hall, but find the School Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u70	A great deal of business there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u71	It's probably not quite so excited there. But I just want to pray. A senator and a respectable president may be able to wait. A senator and a chief. Ministers to honor one another. Let's talk here about the issues that are important to the people of the country. Let's stop messing around with each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u72	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate my opening words from the moment I spoke here the first time, asking for a word from a respectable president about what her reaction would be. But after listening to this, I feel that we are again witnessing at the highest level. The minister of her vision is how power can be exercised. This is reflected in the manner of the highest. Ministers have the word, whose vision of authority is. That's not how you talk. Minister to the council or members of Congress. I can't take that thought away, because we've seen this kind of attitude appear at the highest level. A minister to women, in fact, that the government had to pay from a court case with a woman who had done two things twice against her, whether the highest. A minister would have thus spoken to a male senator. I don't know. I don't know, but I can't help but think about it, and I reiterate my request to the highest degree. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u73	President. There's a lot of things to do here in exactly this conversation. Sometimes we senators get excited, but for good reason, that's just the way it is. But it is very common for ministers to come then, pointing out, "Oh, he's so excited. " He must be indistinguishable. It's a classic defense. You can't be excited at all, you're somehow inconsolable, and you're the one with the feeling. No, at the time of nonverbal innuendo, e.g. of the head of the Forest when she was a sea chief for ten months, that she had not done anything for ten months in a government that exploded over a riot, that somehow it would be a judgment against her or her party to do nothing in the seafaring business, it is just completely ridiculous and extremely unadvisable to make such a statement. And, of course, there is reason to point out that a minister simply has an indistinguishable transfer in such discussions. I have no interest in this discussion of the government, to be constantly putting words into our members of Congress, such as the Supreme Court. energy resources and -- oh, it's complicated - a climate minister also did here in unsubstantiated inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u74	I hope Mrs. President respects it to me that I now did not pull away from being called a team and have been called that many times. But I have suspected that if a senator had used this word for Minister, the president would have struck the bell and asked her to explain why she did not react. Perhaps we should be discussing the most important matters of this discussion, and that is repeated statements at the highest level. A minister of what action she is prepared to take and that she has full support from her chairman and members of the House of forwarders. There's two senators sitting in the hall. It's the highest. The minister of the House of forwarders and Mrs. President is also a candidate and could ask someone to step in if any of these good people came up here and confirmed their support of these ideas. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u75	A respectable president. I felt compelled to come up here and express myself under the President's conference board. I'm a little surprised, I have to say, in the discussion here because there's a lot of criticism here. Minister for the way she presented herself in a speaker's hand. She must answer for what she says; I'm not going to do it here and now. However, the discussion will still make me think about it. This is where the government is concerned with being objective and guarding their words and respecting the council, but my feeling is that this does not seem to be exactly the policy of the government opposition. I ask all of you and all of us to show respect for the council, respect one another. Let's be objective and guard our words. I have personally witnessed the appearances and other developments that have been presented, both today and the past few days, and I do not believe that this is to increase the respect of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u76	You haven't been long enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u77	- Maybe not, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u78	Madam President. Yeah, let's treat one another with respect. Let's do it. It came up anyway. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson asked very normal questions, asked questions in words of the highest degree. Ministers on specific measures to earn money for the government funds, possibly, if the government officials dare and have the courage to help the people of the country. This is a very reasonable question by the senator. V.E.G. A minister came up here and showed members of the council, for she is also a senator, so disrespectful that people in this town were afraid. She talks about this team when she's talking about what she's talking about. Councilmen and we are required to address members of the Parliament in a specific way. She's talking about members of Congress as this team. She talks about what? Councilmen who are frustrated, smoky and agitated. [[The president calls.]] Is this the respect we want to highest? Ministers showing hospitality to senators? [[The president calls.]] No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u79	President. I interrupted for the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister in unsubstantiated queries earlier, simply because he was being wrong. I reminded him, he was wrong. He laid it down. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen words in her mouth. She didn't say it was the highest. Minister said she said. I feel that this is very rude and beneath the dignity of a minister. So there is sometimes reason to remind a minister of such disrespect. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Isaksen and hope she doesn't have to experience the fact that she hasn't been here long enough, as well. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson called in earlier. We don't have to learn these bad old habits. But if we don't, we're gonna have to take the root of the problem and I've experienced my own, in my second term here, that's unfortunately those who have been here for the longest time. [[The president calls.]] We who try to cope in some way are accused of agitation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u80	V.E.G. President. In the power of age and past experiences, I'm going to say this: We probably have much better things to do with our time than to continue in those terms, and I remind you that there may be something in what the Minister has been saying that in recent years, we seem to rhyme with our emphasis in the lesser part. She wants to increase bank taxes or bank contributions, she wants to raise the cost of the seabed, and perhaps we should try to find a way for them to view, even though they may be difficult for the government, because it does not conflict with the government covenant. See how the team acts, there's a line that indicates something. But here, a congregation is quite nice. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u81	Madam President. I remember that it was 2014 that they were standing out there in the corner, Bjarni son of Benediktsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. There was a woman in a purse. The Buddies said, "Don't move. " I thought it was over. What's the big deal? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son here? ◯ I've just never seen her as excited as this one. And when a body of Congress protests this preemptive behavior with prominence as it should, just the double - size minister of rudeness says: "Look how the people are doing. How did the president act then? We're here at the President's conference board, not just for some speech exercise to talk about what happened, but about calling for a response from the chairman of this meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The minister crossed the line, and that is the role of the president. What will the President do? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u82	A respectable president. It's an interesting discussion here, and I wondered if giving up those words about a so-called super-estate bank, showing understanding of the one involved in business, the secretary of business itself, whether she understands how these super-growing banks came about today. Let's just think about it. Last year, profits from banks were very low because they thought they would lose a considerable amount of loans. They are now corrected. This is a reassessment of the value of loans that makes the banks profit in this way. I'm asking, doesn't this secretary of business realize that? Is it not real for a company to turn over the last two years to make a profit of their own money? I'm not sure the secretary of business realized this and has just been driven home with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u83	A respectable president. Generalis's respect has deteriorated dramatically. I'm saying exactly as it is, since I came into Congress, it's always been said that it's time to raise the respect of the Generals. But I don't think that, unfortunately, it doesn't work out and it just gets worse. Some people come and say, "Wait, are you on this team? Yeah, I'm on this team. But I think ministers just need to take a look at themselves. They cannot simply come and question the council indefinitely, whether by doing nothing or simply by saying to people that they cannot speak and ask in unsubstantiated inquiries so that ministers may offend something. They are to be answered. And making any mistake, it shows exactly what it is; the Ministers have no respect for any members of the council or members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u84	A respectable president. I'd really like to agree with everything that's happened here, except maybe what was said in a case or something. paritaprevir Ingibjörg's Isaksen. At the General Assembly, very important matters have to do with the last bargains. On January 31, the Council was to be established as a bill of legal reforms for tenants, of rent law, of changes in those terms. I think it's very important before the bridal talks work out that the government and we here at the Generals show that we're trustworthy people, that we show it to the labor movement. Therefore, I feel that in agreement with the government's secretary, the Generals will inform me if it is necessary to continue to betray these promises made during the signing of biographies, because it will make it possible for the private members of Congress to present such matters themselves in order for them to be properly discussed here at the council. This issue cannot be submitted two or three days before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u85	Madam President. I just thought that we were all on the same team. I don't know if it's naive for me to come in here and think we're on our own trying to do the best for our community where we're all going to live and want the people in this country to thrive and we're all going to get together. That we're on different sides and talking about this team, I don't think it's a conversation I thought would ask at the General, that people would talk to each other like that. They lack respect and lack confidence in the Council, and they lack confidence that we are on the same team and all want to do good and do it together. At least it's not a General hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u86	A respectable president. Somehow I feel a lack of conversation between council members and Ministers. I would like to have a conversation with the Ministers who have the authority that has been entrusted to them by the council and who will enforce what the council has given them so that we can understand a little about our journey and the way the Ministers are going. I had the experience that puts a man lower in the chamber than the Ministers. As has been pointed out, they sit here more or less on the phone all the time with gum, which has been forbidden to wear in my mouth. They use it pretty much when they're sitting here. I think I'll suggest it and support the proposal that we need to change these statements so that we are not being set as senators less than this minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u87	A respectable president. There's more about the storm than there is around us. I think she's already in the Senate Hall. This has been a talk about the respect of the Generals. I just want to state that there is a story on the Generals web that shows that the confidence of the public in the Council has not been higher since the collapse and is now 42%. I'd also like to say that there have been a number of words here, both in the government position and in the council and in the council, and I believe this game is 1:1 because of a lack of pressure. The senator of my section called the Minister of a dinosaur. I think it's time to come. There are important issues on the program of the council, e.g. Special discussion of mental health and government issues. Minister's about to move. I think we should be stopped in this nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u88	President. I have to come up and say that it would have been so easy to prevent this if a minister had just come up here in a pit and broke the point of his mania and simply apologized. I would have thought it was all right to react to this. But it is also okay for ministers to discern the difference between power and power in this hall. When we get up in a pit and take a take-away question - I know that we often speak carelessly and that's all the words we're going to get into the room, but it's really a lot. I don't know exactly what the right word is - yes, personal assault, and lack of respect. [[Up in the middle of a Persian attack.]] It would have been so easy to come up and say, "I'm sorry, I shouldn't have spoken like that. " That would be it. [[Up top: right.]] It would have been respectable to do so. [[Taken out on: right.]] Sometimes it only has to be taken away, put aside, and think about what is best for the rest of the conversation in here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u89	A respectable president. I apologize for how late I am coming into this discussion, as a single mother, and got into trouble on a day of work. But I'm here. I came in here when I was. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir was talking about the time to stop this nonsense. I'm just gonna say the word. Senator, but I'd like to point it out. the majority and the highest. A government should know exactly what to do in order to put this nonsense to rest, which to us is nothing more than a discussion. All we have to do with this council is to be heard. It's putting the argument on the table, the worry we have. It is quite clear what is needed here for approval, and it is to consult the smaller section, to show respect for the Council, and not to address all matters as if the majority of them are not involved in what the smaller section feels and that the smaller portion is not part of this council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u90	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for having a word with me today about an important case party at the highest level. Ministers are responsible, mental health. When I requested the discussion, I was thinking of how governments have reacted to the WHO warnings about the consequences of a pandemic for Covid-19 on the health of the world's population. The information and awareness of the health of the virus have not been exposed to anyone's health but have been less likely to be affected by the virus's effects on national mental health. Many things may have been done if there is no sign. So I thought it best to ask a few questions about government counter measures for Covid-19 which are my questions: What are specific objections to mental health after Covid-19, defined by the following groups: children, young people, older people outside the workforce, people of foreign background, people in a particularly delicate position? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Ministers to report the average waiting time for mental health care in the capital area and in the national health institutions and then to see if the waiting period has changed during the time of the pandemic. I'd also like to ask for answers to the average waiting time after admission and services in the Pediatric and Youth Department and whether this waiting time has changed in the Covid time, the average waiting time for hospitalisation and mental services at the National Hospital and Medical Hospital in Akureyri, and whether the waiting period has changed at this time. Madam President. I think it is safe to insist that mental - health services are an elbow child of the Icelandic medical system. It seems that not only does the public not feel that such service is a means to them but they are not part of our health insurance system. Then there are the houses of two mental hospitals so unscrupulous that no one can understand how health - care professionals think that people will be cured in such a miserable house. Big words, yes, but seriously speaking, you can only wonder if prejudice against this type of health disorder is at fault when this group of patients has little or even no chance at home, movement outside the door, or staying in a beautiful, entombed environment. This particular patient group, which may be expected to be mainly affected by grey and rough walls and incarceration without the possibility of outdoors and exercise. Madam President. Also, it is not out of the question whether it is a built - in prejudice system that prevents the families of those who face mental problems from experiencing post-traumatic treatments and interviews following major illnesses and possible withdrawals from close family members because of their diseases. When a parent loses a child for himself, no team would ever be able to surround a family, a parent, a sibling, and a family themselves. When a parent loses a child because of cancer or other chronic illnesses, a crisis team takes the place from the first day of diagnosis, and all realize that the family needs considerable support because of the grief involved. Why is this difference in service? How is it that a broken leg can enter a medical facility and be used for its own harm, while a person with psychiatric problems will be allowed to wait in the lists for months and years? Madam President. There's no trident at work. There are no live information hearings due to nearly 50 deaths last year because of suicide. There is silence outside what is spoken of during battles to trigger a great campaign that is not seen at all. V.E.G. Secretary of health. What causes this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u91	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir for taking this important discussion on the program. Hv. A member of the World Health Organization (WHO) received what encouragement when an epidemic began, highlighted very interesting points about increased consciousness in this field, and this advice by the World Health Organization that we would not be waiting for. We should have learned from previous experience that we should have kept watch and action. That's what I'm talking about. A government had in mind. At the same time, we ask why. A senator of special counter-requisite measures taken in the field of mental health, following the Covid-19 pandemic, for children, young people, older people, people outside the workforce, people of foreign origin, and people in a more sensitive position. At the beginning of a pandemic, efforts to support and promote the health of the people of the land were emphasized while watching the situation. I think that's the way we've been going, taking some action, in the name of a transparency through a budget bill. I'm going to allow myself to be so bold as to agree with that. A senator - I thought at a speech every day. A senator said that these actions could not have been very specific, but they are there. I don't think we've reached any destination by realizing the scope or by realizing the situation of the different groups as a dog. A senator comes out here. That's why I think this discussion here is very important and how it works. It's set up by a senator. V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow myself to draw here for the actions being carried out, including the following: to protect mental health due to a pandemic. It provided a multidisciplinary mental - health team for children of national, high school, and higher schools with special donations, as well as an increase in mental health care with older people from home to break up the isolation that we all are familiar with in these circumstances and the limitations of dealing with such an epidemic. There were also funding rehabilitation programs for young people who are not in school, work, or special training. Then a special psychiatric committee was set up with representatives of the staff of users and the Ministry of Health, which was designed to coordinate operations and ensure consistent information to vulnerable groups. This was tried to work closely with both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs because it overlaps, as well as the local community. Then I would like to recall my leisure strength, 600 million who were put forward to keep young people walking in sports and leisure activities, so that many have been done during this time. It's still on watch. Two control groups were appointed to monitor the effects on the people's mental and public health. Control groups have provided reports that have given a good look at the impact here on the country and evidence of sound counter measures. I'd like to stress that we can't stop here and say that the epidemic may be completed after some time. As we know, he may rests on our health system more than we feel every day in our community, i.e. if we are not dealing with illness each one of us. But we need to take this work, what it has been done, drag it together, and continue to do better in this regard. Hv. A senator also asks for mental - health services and how they have changed during a pandemic. It must be said at the moment that it is unappreciative to watch the list of waitings that have been drawn up. On the contrary, efforts were made to cope with a variety of options, e.g. by telephone service and by increasing the bioavailability. Positive numbers from the health care of the capital area can also be seen on such a response as the number of telephone calls was greatly increased so that many have been done. [[The president calls.]] Was it accurate enough? It's hard to say, probably not. [[The president calls.]] Can we stop here now? On the contrary, we need to keep doing this. [[The president calls.]] - I look forward to hearing the talks that follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u92	A respectable president. I really want to thank you for this discussion. This is a very important subject, and it is, of course, a serious matter of this amazing lack of interest in the government's mental health of the people of the country. It is long time for health authorities to be responsible and to bring adequate resources and services, e.g. For children who are on the waiting list for months to get to another waiting list for months, then months to get the necessary service after waiting on the third waiting list, even for months. The problem is growing, and waiting lists are increasing. There have been problems in the health of children and teenagers all along, unfortunately. There has to be an additional service for children and adolescents with psychiatric disorders. A group of people says: One waiting child is too much. This is not complicated: One waiting child is too much. There must immediately be enough money for children with psychiatric disorders. There are no professionals, and little has changed for tens of years. Indeed, waiting on a waiting list can be life - threatening, especially for children who must wait, as I said, months or even years after treatment. Health system cost; one psychology time is $16,500. For the worst, it's 8%, nearly 10% of their monthly fees. How on earth are the worst people to afford? Are their children any worse? And the other is mental status. There's a new hospital in a building. Is this mental illness not nice enough to go in there? Or is it far better to put the State Department on a expensive building here on the dock than to do what's good for mental illness?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the tour and what it's like. Councilmen who've been talking here. Research shows that in recent years children and young people have experienced increased emotional distress, feeling that was the least improved over the past two years. At that time, even a few weeks later, children were subject to governmental restrictions and repeated isolation. Decisions on entertainment were taken to ensure that symphonys could take place, while the younger generations' entertainment was sacrificed for the sake of public interest, and this despite the knowledge that most of the children were exposed to a low risk of Covid. During the two years, reports to the child - protection authorities increased dramatically. So it is good that we discuss these matters in particular here today. Two years is a long time in children's lives, and now that the dust is going down, I'm not sure that all these decisions will grow old. But there is something else that I want to focus on. Ministers to and who are added to the availability of a long - term and long - term, mental - health service. It was discussed at the council during the days, but as many private offices in mental - health services are making good use of these techniques, I may ask, " Why is the government not using this option? ' Why is it so much easier for the government to break down walls and walls? We have an Icelandic technology that has all the rights, but it is not used by any public service agency. Could it be that old - fashioned thinking prevents reasonable physical structure? By offering both local and telecommunications across the country, you can shorten the waiting time and wait list, make better use of the time of health care professionals, and build a strong team of support and assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u94	Madam President. Let us look only at adults and young people. In the last five years, 55 people were killed for their own lives at 18◯29 years of age. Consider how governments are responding to these terrible numbers. I would have thought our mental - health system had been under a full reexamination... and my hands were really spiting on that. But what happens? Nothing. I'd also like to talk about the fact that in the emergency service at the National Hospital Hospital, there were some 6,000 people last year, and the emergency services were about 37,000. They do not know how many were dismissed, but rumor has it that many people are referred to by the National Hospital mental ward. Last year, on average, 360 people turned to mental - health care clinics for a month. Outside the opening room, an average of 92 people went to a hospital emergency room in Fos so that 25% of the total number seeking emergency departments went to the Fos Sol, where there are no special staff with mental health problems. It is not a good situation to receive mental - health practitioners. To be sure, it is a disgrace to find that there is longer open to the commercial centers of the country than to the mental ward of the Land Hospital. But what I was most shocked to see in reply to my inquiry to the highest degree. A health minister was saying that mental - health professionals in the local hospitals have no idea if anyone who comes to them for thoughts of suicide or someone else will take his own life after saving or services at the hospital. The failure to follow up on people for a potential year or longer who are in danger of taking their own lives is an amazing neglect on the part of the government. If you have an individual such as the same is true of cancer treatment. Then the individual is always followed. This is like having someone on a medication and does not depend on whether the medicines are working. [[The president calls.]] We do not know if our mental health system works. It doesn't work, it's daylightier. [[The president calls.]] What would this mental - health inactivity cost us the common people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u95	Madam President. Mental - health issues often come up here. When I was at the General Assembly in May 2006, I was referring to this group of subjects, who are now stressing the mental - health benefits of young people. The foundation for good mental health is laid during childhood, and it is important to cherish children and their families. Prevention has increased, and mental health problems have become more important within both the health and school systems, since the information has been presented. Research suggests that about 20% of children and adolescents suffer from feelings of distress or mental illness such as anxiety or depression, and it can be expected that the proportion is even higher, since studies also show that children do not necessarily report it if they feel unwell. Seventy-five percent of children have mental health problems at any given time and need mental health care. According to the World Health Organization, about half of those diagnosed with psychiatric disorders by the age of 14 and worldwide are diagnosed, so much of them are not treated properly. The dawn of the past few years, and the growth of basic and expert services in children and adolescents with psychiatric problems, has shown us that, if necessary, we can do better. There's been an increase in the number of walks, welfare and field services, especially in cooperation, education and counseling. This trend must be continued because it hears a significant improvement in the treatment and prevention of children and adolescents. However, with more references, we do not necessarily put our list around our list of subjects as best we would like, and there is a lack of treatment options other than chemotherapy, especially in the scattered areas. The availability and availability of resources for children and adolescents who have mental health problems, as well as for their families, vary widely from country to country. Most measures are available in the capital area where the crowds are greatest. Last week, I discussed distant health - care measures and how to use them to provide even one. Further mental - health services throughout the country followed the increased service that took place during the last term of the seminary. It is clear to me that in our scattered country, we need to think outside the box and use many solutions to provide good mental - health services throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vólvóg vógvóg er með er að að að í Helgaótkóttir að að ogja vítur. A senator also congratulates him on his birthday today. I was going to allow myself to talk about what I talk about so many times in this council hall, which is subsidized by the Psychological Service. I asked you a question to the highest level. When he was newly installed on December 8, because I was interested in obtaining his opinion and hopefully taking part in this seminary during the season. I asked him a question, and I'm just going to ask him back to the Hall right now because despite the fact that the months have passed, there has been no reply. I asked the minister about the incidence of disability due to anxiety and depression in 2021 and, in fact, the two preceding years, of course, the pandemic. To be honest, I think there's a hole in being talking about in a government contract that it's supposed to promote a mental - health service to everyone when it seems that it's up to the political impossible to make conversation about this group here. So I'm here to say that I believe in the highest. A health minister was very happy that he was made a health minister. But I would like to get his point, answers, and preferably clear answers, on whether he intends to increase access to psychological treatment regardless of the economy. That's the key factor in this. That's why we're talking for subsidies. This is a matter of bioavailability regardless of the economy, but this is also a matter of living independently by subsiding the service. [[The president calls.]] I want less than ever. According to the health minister, it was legal. 93/2020, two years ago, the minister received a blessing and a petition and an order from the Council to proceed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u97	V.E.G. President. In recent years and particularly during a pandemic, much attention has been given to mental - health services in the media and at the General Assembly. Yet, there seems to have been little in these matters. The global epidemic has had negative effects on mental health. Suicide has increased in the last two years, but in 2020, there were 47 suicides compared to 39 years earlier. The reports of domestic violence have increased, and mental health problems in a new hospital were not anticipated, but the current facilities have become out - of - date. Plus, the longest waiting list in S.A. is as good as never before. As is the case today, waiting time for mental - health care at the health care of the capital area can last from a few weeks up to a year. The waiting period after the services of a mental - health team may vary from a few weeks to five, six months, and the waiting period at a mental - health center may vary from several weeks to several years. This can't be healthy, the highest. Secretary of health. The fact is, there is no need for psychologists and psychiatrists in this country. The continuation of this activity seems to be lost, and no one seems to know how the situation should be solved. We hear many stories from people about crowding, spacelessness, etc. in case of serious suicide Clearly, the situation is heavy, and there has been no effort to increase the number of psychologists and psychiatrists. During the campaign, all groups agreed that this group needed funding, promising all classes in their sleeves. [[The president calls.]] The current government has not been able to deliver an election code in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u98	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the advert for putting mental health issues on a program here at the Great General. The fact that for many years mental health and mental - health services have been subsidized in this country cannot be overlooked. The contribution of the subject within the healthcare system is estimated to approximately 30%, but only 12% of the contributions to health care are available to him in this country. I could just end my talk here because this fact tells us all about the priorities of the medical system. I think we are faced with the issue, whether we belong to a government or to a smaller part, to recognize the need to reinvest our financial affairs, that it must be reinvented in public finances, and to plan for a short and long time that ensures mental health care for people of all ages. I would also like to point out another fact, and it is that there are too many who do not receive mental - health services to the point of disability, so we are often procrastining young people, especially by not giving them essential mental - health care. So, what do we do? Then we will be left with people who are unable to make use of their skills, who do not have health care, and who are actually judged out of the game for most of their lives. The best advice for good health, public health, and mental health in the nation is to ensure balance, prevent poverty of children and young people, and ensure the availability of all to a high degree of mental health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u99	Madam President. A discussion of mental health is always necessary, especially now when we are coming from an unusual time period that has been tested in many ways. As a minister of the above, a number of good action has been initiated in order to promote the health of the people of the land. At the beginning of the epidemic, there was an immediate crisis and an increase in funding for the seminary. However, during the discussion of mental health, I would like to discuss the importance of looking more closely at the overall picture rather than looking at each option. All aspects of health care need to be considered, not just for mental - health professionals. A healthy soul in a healthy body, perhaps a person's feelings of speech, but it will not be overlooked that by fostering human health, we at the same time cherish the people's mental health. Then I think health care should have a bigger role than it has today. It is needed further as a primary service, especially in the country. Granted, in recent years there have been necessary steps to increase the number of psychologists on health care, and now mental - health teams are active in all health care programs. However, in many parts of the country, experts are lacking. It is necessary to ensure a better access to national experts and to provide the best possible service in the home area. Here's something to add. Then it can be said that the system, as it has been installed, has sometimes been unsure of where and when to look. The ministry is to experience that it exists and that it guides it in the direction needed. I trust local clinics to care for this role and continue to support them for their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u100	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir for bringing up this need, and I'd like to thank the highest degree. The health minister of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answers he has already given us. I'm going to say here that I was one of those who welcomed the order of a good man to a health minister because I think he's broke. He accepts ideas from others, and we should direct all good ideas to our health minister, and that is what we do with this discussion. She's needed and she's good. I prefer to look at the light in the dark. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir asked in his initial issue if the matter of mental health had been some sort of elbow child, had had had to have suffered some kind of prejudice. Of course, the answer to that is yes, a big yes. It does not take much knowledge of the English language to see the contempt of those who have struggled with development inhibition or some mental disorder. They've been put in the remainder size of our system. We cannot hold responsibility for those things around the neck of a newly appointed health minister. We can hope that he will have the best, first and best of all, and I trust he will. The largest and most expensive case of our nation's population is the health system, and long - term policy should be a major force in human health, where mental health will be taken as everything else. I hope that we can be increasingly able to look at the context between flesh and spirit. [[The president calls.]] Could it be that the pile of anxiety in your stomach just starts in your stomach and then moves up to your head? [[The president calls.]] Could it be that our flea is in trouble, causing some of these problems? [[The president calls.]] Let us consider this in a broad context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u101	I don't know. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u102	A respectable president. Now that we're seeing the end of the pandemic, you think that while the virus is dropping, we'll live on the consequences of the plague in various areas. We need to know who they are. The situation in the labour market is a concern. It's hard to get people to work. This morning, 1,116 job vacancies were full-of-the-art.is. For Covid, vacancies on the same site were on average about 300 and had a high value. Professional drivers all over the country lack real help, and this suggests that people are hesitant and anxious to go back to the job market after a break from Covid. This is the reality we face, and we need to recognize how we are going to get people back into action. That's the job for the next month. We also know that there is a link between spirituality and being active in a workforce. Because workforce activity is extremely important in mental health, I think we have to do everything we can to get people into the work market. That's a lot of options for us, including. Active. But I often wondered if we are compatible. In the epidemic, mental health deteriorated. Therefore, I think it is long time to open a special mental - health centre to strengthen the entire environment and maintain mental health care in this country where mental health measures would be coordinated. We must do everything in our power to cultivate better mental health and, in particular, young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u103	Madam President. I just wanted to finish my case, the question I wanted to throw up earlier. First thing I want to say is that governments don't monitor whether treatments that are being passed to the World Health Organization, hoping to be successful, make me feel utterly embarrassed. I'd like to ask the highest. HCPs whether this should change and whether to follow more closely on those at risk of suicide. I also want to rejoice that I have been discussing mental health and thank you for it. I'd also like to talk about facts, not rumors, not speculations, but facts. The fact is that nearly 60% of girls in the tenth grade and 35% of boys value their mental health fairly, badly, or severely ill. The fact is, 40% of children in the tenth grade have considered self - injury once or more, and the fact is that 20% had hurt themselves once or more. 20% of children are not satisfied with their lives and are not happy. These are only children in the 10th grade, and the fact is that 20% of children never look or rarely look to the future with optimism. How many of these 20% of children are there? These are some 900 children, some of these, who are injured, who are not happy, who do not look to the future with a bright outlook. What does this tell us about the Icelandic health system? It's broken. It's going to be left behind. That there are waiting lists in every medical system is my duty to understand how it has been like this. But something must be done, and it must be done immediately. It is so important to care for these children and young people sufficiently because our community is making money out of it. [[The president calls.]] Also, I would like to say that the mental - health report being addressed needs to make a lot of changes so that it is satisfactory. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What will this inactivity cost us? That's my question, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u104	Madam President. First, I want to celebrate this fine discussion and thank you. paritaprevir Helga Vala the daughter of Helgadóttir for bringing up the mental health status here today. As we have seen, waiting lists are a long period of time, an unacceptable situation for sick individuals and even children. All too often, though, people with psychiatric problems are spoken of as a uniform group, so it is important that the film be broken up and seen in different groups. Patients are not only different in age, gender, residence, class and position but may be long-term or short-term illness, e.g. following a shock. Sensitive groups, queers fleeing, and disabled people, etc., often have more sensitive positions and find it harder to approach the available help. Thus, it is so important that there are many and varied resources, that people are not discriminated against on the basis of farms or other factors. I agree with what. Ingibjörg Isaksen're gonna have to take this action sooner. We must repair cultural social ills and support mental health from the very beginning instead of having to face the problem when the situation is very serious. I believe in the highest. A health minister who supports him for fine works, and I encourage him to look with special appeal to peripheral groups and, especially, to those living in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u105	Madam President. I thank you for this discussion, and I would like to direct the focus on mental - health services. The fact is, at the same time as statistics show that funding for a basic service there has been drawn together during the reign of these government groups, the light in the dark has been an increased emphasis on the structure of mental health - care systems. As a result, a more potent structure has been developed in which psychological services are now apparent in the final meters of this structure, as it appears to be consistent and inexplicable therapy by psychologists is no longer the focus but rather much shorter treatment with the aim of reducing people in the waiting lists faster. I'm aware that the health - care director has been informed about the concern of professionals over these changes. I'm interested in hearing from the highest. Minister if he is aware of these changes and of the dissatisfaction that she has caused among the professionals. I find it appropriate to remind myself of the health - level degradation of the government because of the ill - thought - provoking changes associated with the breakdown of cervical screening with women, and hopefully this lesson has been drawn from the fact that changes need to be considered seriously and that men need to see the end point. Here it appears that the aim of these planned changes is simply to shorten the duration of treatment, contrary to clinical recommendations, to work faster on the built-up lists. As a result, the integration of the work is breaking down. This is an integration that has been built to ensure that people receive the same benefit - tested psychological treatment whether they are present at a health care center in Garðatown or in the Breiðholti, for example, so that there will be no equal access between the advanced psychological treatments in case of trial. All of us, I believe, want to reduce the quality of our lists, but of course it doesn't matter how it's done. I'd love to, if anything. A minister has knowledge of this matter, that he could spend a while coming on it here at the end of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u106	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolböndóttir, along with other members of the council, requested a medical report from a state accountant for health care in the country. This request was reimbursed from the previous council, where the report was not received. The report is requested to include policy, organization, cost, and benefit in mental - health matters. Mental - health aid has been included in recent years by powerful campaigns that have called attention to the importance of mental - health services. In 2020, the Psychiatry went on to do a campaign entitled 39, representing the number of suicides in 2019 and, on average, during the past few years. The campaign suggested nine measures to put mental health first. The first procedure is the complete scope and performance of mental - health services. It says that this assessment is necessary to control the group and to increase the coordination of the government. It is important that we get this report as soon as possible so we can figure it out. Today, the Council is scheduled for a bill from the Supreme Court. Healthcare Minister to correct a patient's rights legislation. Today, we were contacted by the government of the National Association of Psychiatry, where the Minister's Management Board has brought quite a surprise to the Psychological Help and to its clients. Psychiatry made comments to the minister at the end of the last year because of a lack of consultation on the bill. The minister seemed to respect the mental - health perspective and intended to call for consultation before the bill was submitted. However, there was no more consultation with mental - health programs, and the bill was submitted. [[The president calls.]] Mental - health aid has called for a retraction of the bill and for consultation with the professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u107	Madam President. I want to thank you for your discussion and thank you for the answers to the Minister. Before the top. The minister became the supreme minister. The minister was a w-w-w-what. The chairman of a financial committee, and so human resources fail when it comes to crowns and pennies. The incidence of disability is highest among those with psychiatric challenges. When physical therapy was introduced into the health insurance system, the incidence of disability as a result of musculoskeletal problems was greatly reduced, and it can be expected that the same will be true when governments finally financed the Generals' will to put psychology services into the payment system. Madam President. We have a global record of antipsychotic use, and the increase in use in children is of particular concern. The list of anxiety and antidepressants among children increased by less than 20% over a two-year period, between 2018 and 2020. Prescription of ADHD drugs increased by more than 80% over the same period. It's unattractive to watch a waiting list, said the highest. Minister. A 13 - year - old boy is on a number of monthly waiting lists, probably a 12 - month waiting list, after repeated attempted suicides in the last ten months. This is a fact. The amount of money to the suit of mental health is likely to be 13% of the need, 15%, while children and young people have experienced a significant increase in their suicide. In the 183/429 years old age group, suicide rate was a factor in the death rate of 2016-2020 36%. It was 36% of those who died because they made the decision to take their own lives. [[The president calls.]] What kind of money did it cost? A health minister to join the seminar? Yeah, I guess what would be equal in one apartment at Hafnar Square.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u108	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank you for this discussion and many practical suggestions and questions that have been raised. This has only been a matter of mental - health care, and I had a previous talk to increase the level of the material and response in this epidemic. I can draw this out from the health care of the capital area in 2020, compared with 3,000 in the preceding year. Of course, this information can be interpreted in a number of ways, both so that it has been responded, but it can also be viewed from the need for service. I'd also like to come, because there's been a question here at psychiatric agreements and about these limited funds, indeed, 250 million available, that according to my best information, they have a very good record of practical and well - being with limited resources. Hv. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir went over the follow-up after treatment and I look to it. I don't know the exact thing, I'll quite admit it, but I'll definitely ask myself better in this. But to me, this is this professional approach that a phase 3 operation needs to be rehabilitated in all areas. [[The president calls.]] So I'll really ask this. Sadly, all I can learn is that I wrote many things from this fine discussion that I appreciate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u109	President. Day after day, we hear news reports of terrible sexual abuse and violence in close relationships. There is a clear and strong requirement in the community for action on the part of the legislature and the European Commission. In fact, there are four Parliamentary decrees and one Senate bill of nearly all classes here at the General Assembly, no. 16, 20, 173, 207 and 233 relevant to these matters. All of them have passed through the previous and 1st. and now sit on a committee. A respectable president. I'd like to go to the top search. The General and Education Committee that it speeds up visitors and their treatment of these matters so that a world of Congress can show its sense of agreement with all the victims who have had to tell their difficult stories publicly to cause the consciousnesss that have occurred here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u110	Madam President. Now we've got a what? For the second time in this winter, a management and monitoring committee began to make needed changes in the terms of the election that went into effect during the year 1 January 2022. I come up here to attract attention. Councilmen reported today that in the election laws as agreed at the high Council last year, with will or no will, it was reported to include an article in the law that ensures that a vote box is sealed. I must say, Madam President, I am not entertained. After spending 125 hours on a meeting with a stock board last fall because of the local mess, I just thought it was over now. But it is quite clear that a board of administration and monitoring will now take part in establishing the legislation as it came from the last council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u111	Madam President. I'm kind of shocked after what I said. The director of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, which told us we needed between 2 and 3rd. clearly changing the bill we're considering today because of the results received today from the Western Sheriff of Police, who pointed to a flaw in the law. It seems that it has been used by so - called feedback laws, where there is no clear requirement for a specific form and a set of rules for the management of the election laws as they present to us today. I think the highest. The President will have to make this a serious opinion about the council program because I don't think we can, just by the respect of the council and the respect of the Generals, send the case from the Council as a law without making any legal adjustments on the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u112	Madam President. I will conscientiously participate in paying for this matter. But this has become so embarrassing for us that let us hope that very few people are watching this broadcast and watching television. We need to take the time we need now to complete the situation so that no more incidents will be taken. We witnessed the most incredible things in the fall, and it took time and affected things, and for God's sake, we chose now and hid the commission to review the matter between the two discussions and bring it all in here, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u113	Madam President. I'd like to apologize for interrupting my first vote, but I just wanted to say the word. Councilmen who've come up here. Obviously, we are always making laws so quickly that there are no more fussing about them. Congress had to come together for the last summer to fix faults. The bill is being passed now because there are defects. Then we find out through the media that there are still other flaws. What would we have done if we had agreed? Would a board of administration and monitoring have to bring another bill so that a proper vote could be made in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u114	A respectable president. I vote with this, since I have no intention of standing in the way of the changes here are being proposed. However, I would like to agree with others who have come here and show how embarrassing this has become. First, the bill had to be made tremendous changes when it came for the release of a committee during the last assembly, and that was not enough. Then you might wonder, " Has this bill appeared and been approved too early, since we received one of the greatest tests of our legislation and carried out on it in the election this fall? ' This is the second time, in the short time we've sat here, that we've had to change these laws, and now there's another incident that you wonder if there is no further change. I haven't compared the new election with the older election or put myself in on it yet, but I wondered if there's any reason to reexamine all of this. It's starting to cause me a lot of anxiety. The more we see on these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u115	President. It was not much fun to see the news today regarding the conclusion of the case in the northwestern district, and especially not to announce that it had somehow been canceled on the basis of a new campaign, since they were not authorized to follow the errors of the northwestern elections compared with the actions of the old law. But that is exactly what it says in a new election law that it defends fines, unless there is a greater penalty after other laws, if unit control, election management, an out-of-communication manager, or a government official employs the required actions of these deliberate laws illegally or neglecting it in the 136th. g. Back to the 99th. According to the secretary's office of Regulation, the Commission's proposal for the implementation of general elections, the handling of discriminatory bills, the handling of sufficiency and the votes and the disposal of items after counting. It's all there, but the Chief of Police in the West is obviously beginning to interpret new election laws in that it doesn't have anything to do with what happened in the northwestern district of last election, which I think is very strange. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Well, then, it's worth the fact that we're going to step it into a committee and make it a little clearer. I think it's clear enough, but if the project is beginning to interpret it in a way that it can only be avoided by the confusion that was there the last time, it's very serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u116	President. I'm grateful to the president's offer. It's a little difficult sometimes to be here at the right time to hit and let them know if it's about votes or to account for their votes, that's a little time people have. At least I'm celebrating this case. After we're here with a green book, or, as I would like to call it, a green washing book, I think I'm just very nice to get one request. I'll take my mind off this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u117	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this fine case. I support this petition. I think it is even less important to take a good look and work against what can be called political green laundry. What is it, e.g. ... buta political green washing when the government's leader claims to represent a green revolution but will be less than 1% of GDP for climate action, when 23 rental companies get 2 billion strengths to buy gas and diesel cars and it's called green operations or when we speak of Iceland as the most greenest country in the world, while we're about to have one of the largest consumer carbon footprints in the world? This is all such political washing, and we don't want the Council to be one huge, what do we say, a green laundry station? According to this, I would like to call upon the European Commission's Regulation, which stipulates a uniform framework for promoting sustainable investments, to be legally established as soon as possible, which includes specific defenses against greenwashing, a system of definitions of what constitutes sustainable employment. [[The president calls.]] To that end, I support this request and encourage us not only to resist private greenwashes but also to set a good example ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u118	Madam President. I just want to thank you for this nice report request. As more and more people realize the need for radical action on climates, what should we say, the open markets of excited people are about putting a green label on something that may just not be green. Therefore, it is very important that consumers have the equipment they need to see through the green laundry. Therefore, it is very important to take this step. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's view that the political shower of green is less serious and even more serious, since the main lines are drawn up four years at a time. When two groups in the government realized that they could take their old industrial policy and wrap it into green foil and sell it as some new direction, well, something would have needed. No, actually, we had something. We had the sun from young environments that showed black in white that one of the existing government groups had an acceptable policy in these matters. [[The president calls.]] Two had an unacceptable course. [[The president calls.]] It may not be enough to know who has a green product or a green policy or what it is to remember, but to remember that it is important to whom we run the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u119	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the patient's rights legislation, of forcedness. The bill was submitted to the 151th legislature but failed to succeed and is now being reassigned virtually as unchanged. Nevertheless, changes were taken into account as a class. The General Board of Health proposed in June. There the Committee proposed a modification proposal that included minor changes in definitions, and the Committee wanted patients to be added that unless the patient requested the application, patients would not be informed about the application procedure. The committee also suggested that the duration of the forced application decision might be at the longest rate of three months, rather than the six months suggested in the bill. Before I have a review of the subject of the bill, I believe it is right to draw the world's attention to the fact that when the bill was presented at the end of the last Parliament, the NTSB interest groups on the bill showed that there was a shortage of users in the work of the bill, without a significant amount of material remarks to the bill being presented. But I would like to state that when I talk about material comments, of course, there may not be a clear line when we're talking about princehood and ideologies. I am eager to cooperate fully with users of health care. I've been meeting with stakeholders to achieve a common vision of the legal reforms the bill on this subject provides for patients. Similarly, it is important that the Council discuss the matter and address the discussion on the patient's rights. I would like to justify the importance of the government working on legal reforms for those in a more delicate position. This bill is intended to improve the patient's rights, including in line with the comments made by the U.S. Marshal of the United States, following his surveillance visit to the three closed centres of a mental hospital at an Slurpee in October 2018. OPCAT is an optional book making up the UN Convention against torture and inhuman treatment that is handled by surveillance and visits to places where individuals may be removed, on professional grounds, are their freedoms. This is being carried out by emissary emissary agent Aldulis, and the lawyer and psychiatrist perform this role by the emissary of the General Assembly. A visit to the Justice and Security Department at the Kleep, the mental field of the Land Hospital, led to a recommendation to improve the lack of forced labor, which, of course, is being applied in completely exceptional situations and on professional grounds. The bill I recommend here, which has previously been appointed by the General, is the answer to the pleas and indications given in the General Agent's report. I'd also like to state that in June 2019 the General Assembly agreed to agree with the proposal for a full review of legal law, No. 71/1997, a special committee of council members, was assigned to do that work. The Parliamentary Committee is entrusted with a broad task in that council resolution, but it was also made to speed up as much as possible a change intended to eliminate indiscriminate discrimination against disabled persons who are under pressured by various kinds, depravity, or a lack of freedom. Also, I would like to point out that the highest. Social and workforce minister is working on the bill for the implementation of security measures and security services, but that bill has multiple targets, including to ensure the implementation of the safety measures in relation to human rights and the safety of the individuals involved in these measures. When this bill was composed, V., law on the rights of disabled people, No. 88/2011, which discusses arrangements to reduce the amount of forced service to those who are disabled. Furthermore, representatives of the Ministry of Health, Department of Social Affairs, and Justice consulted on the regulations of the bill in order to ensure the harmony of regulations dealing with the use of forced force. In view of all of this, it is important to look for ways to conform to rules and procedures when it comes to being under compulsion to those in a sensitive position. Therefore, the above report specifically directed to the Minister of Health, the Director of Ministers, that adequate legal rights are severely lacking and that services are in the current law due to the intervention at the departments of the Land Hospital visited by the agent. An agent noted in his report that the Council needs an opportunity to decide on the extent to which the legislatator considers to be responsible for the procedures that take place in medical institutions. The contributions of this bill give it a chance. I want to point it out right now. well-being committee, in view of what I've already said, to examine this bill in relation to the legal legislation and the labour service secretary's bill on the implementation of security and, as far as possible, according to the information given to the case or the tips and comments that will be involved in this case. I allow me to stress that by suggesting that a legal act is legally authorised in a medical facility in exceptional circumstances, the aim is not to measure it out but to reduce the use of forced measures, including the need to avoid them. by suggesting that, as suggested in this bill, a specialised team will be established to provide advice on how to avoid the application of forced measures and that patients can sue for application when appropriate or when it is decided by specialists in exceptional circumstances, as it is put in this bill. The objective of the bill is to create a law frame for the procedure in the National Institutes of Health when it comes to events requiring forcedness, use of force, or other means of self - determination, freedom, and privacy of patients. So the bill suggests a change in the rights of patients, which includes bans - and I reiterate, dignified president: ban - the use of forced labor. That is the principle. The bill suggests a change in the rights of patients which include new directives for the definition of forcedness and telecommunication, conditions that must be available if the physician decides to employ the patient's legal force, as well as the judicial procedures to follow and after the application of such procedures, including registrational cases, lawsuits and rights to administer a legal case. It is not intended to add resources to the patient's forced use but to establish clear rules with a view to ensuring better patient rights. I think the equipment here is an improvement. I think that everyone agrees on what gave the case a review in the past. As I came into the past, the bill is part of the government's response to comments made by the U.S. Marshal IIis's official following his surveillance call at three closed centres of a mental hospital at an Investment in October 2018. The surveillance visit was conducted on the basis of the so-called OPCAT monitoring committee, which consists of independent agent surveillance visits in places where free-minded individuals are staying. OPCAT refers to an optional book dealing with a UN Convention against torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. The bill also responds to comments made by the European Commission committee on defense of torture. I'm going to take the English word here, with the permission of the President: the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This committee has repeatedly identified the lack of a clear law code when dealing with the application of any form of forcedness in the local medical institutions, especially to reduce the risk of inhuman treatment. The bill does not add resources to the forced use of patients; it is intended to set clear rules with a view to ensuring better patient rights. If the bill is legal, health institutions and personnel of the health department should avoid administering any form of forced action to patients unless absolutely necessary and in accordance with the guidelines of the law. I'm going to step on the bill's main subject, a respectable president. It is suggested to add a chapter to the current law on the prohibition of forcedness, where the exceptional situation will be allowed to determine the application procedure, registration of medical cases, patient lawsuits and the order of a specialist team on forcedness. At the same time, the bill suggests a new definition in addition to the definitions contained in the current legislation. Adding the section on the prohibition of necessity requires that you define what can be considered under compulsion in the sense of a law on patients' rights. Nursing may include physical force, e.g. in order to prevent self-harm and others from harming, or that the patient is kept separate from others, or that the patient's access to a telephone is limited. It is also suggested to add a definition of the term telecommunication that includes an electronic monitoring by a camera or a microphone. The general rule here is a ban on forced use but it is suggested that the law be added to an article forbidding forced application in medical institutions, also forbidding the patient's distance rooms or living quarters. In particular, the bill says that the application of penalties is prohibited. This will be discussed with the exceptions, but it is suggested that, in individual cases, there is a head doctor or the head of a specialist who is allowed to make a decision to depart from a ban during forced or telecommunications. Such a decision should be in order to prevent a patient from causing harm to himself or another physical injury or major loss of property, including preventive measures intended to prevent the exposure to situations that could lead to physical injury or massive property damage, and to meet the patient's basic needs, such as nutrition, health, and hygiene. Before such a decision is made by the head of a specialist doctor or a specialist specialist in charge of forcedness and/or removal of telecommunications, the patient should be consulted as appropriate. If the patient wishes to do so, the decision must also be reported almost immediately by a person's attorney, a man's servant's servant, or someone saved in a medical facility on the basis of judgment. 62. g. General penalties, No. 19/1940. In addition, for a patient less than 16 years of age, the informed approval of a guardian who is responsible for the age that we will become independent of the health care providers. The decision by the head of a doctor or a specialist specialist in the management of a ban on the use of forced and/or death during telecommunication should be written and supported, which should be made clear to what measures it takes and indicate the duration of the procedure. This is the device I even referred to. to the previous speech. The decision should be temporary and never made for longer than it is necessary, but no longer than three months at any time. This is where the indications came from. the welfare committee on the subject during the last session. In writing decisions, the conditions set for the application of this requirement, such as how it should be handled, what requirements should be made for employees and other matters considered important. If a physical abuse decision is made, those who come to use it should have taken the course of that material. The director of the relevant health care facility is responsible for ensuring that a patient in charge of forcedness is instructed on his right to sue for forced application for forced application and, after cases, to handle the case under law. Second, judicial procedures take place according to the regulations of the administration. The bill suggests that unless under compulsion it is considered necessary to prevent an impending loss, a major loss of property, or a disturbance in the public interest, it is permitted to be forced. Promptly step aside when threatened or past conditions are present. Since such compulsions are administered in exceptional circumstances, such cases should be recorded and it should be defined as the degree, nature, and interest involved. Healthcare institutions should submit a case report on the occurrence of forced application within one week of the forced procedure. It is suggested that, whether used on the basis of a separate or in case of emergency, all patients under compulsion should be enrolled in the patient file. The same is true when not used by telecommunications. At enrolment, it shall tell you how under compulsion or the monitoring, how long it lasted, who took care of it, and other relevant factors, such as the loss of injury or property. Medical institutions should report to the National Competent Authority on the use of forced or remote surveillance to a monthly specialist team. Information on forced application in an emergency should be sent to the expert team within a week of the forced procedure. The bill also suggests that as many as seven individuals up to four years of age are appointed by the health minister in a specialised group for forced use. The expert team shall be appointed at least One specialist doctor, one lawyer who has an knowledge of human rights and a representative who has experienced under compulsion. It is suggested that watchmen be as numerous and meet the same criteria as nobles. At least three members of the team will discuss each case with a chairman. Specialist team on forced application will include: provide counselling to health institutions and health care professionals on what is considered to be forced and how to avoid forced application. It is then assumed that a specialised team for forced application has a residence by the surgeon's office. The National Competent Authorities will be obliged to provide all the data, as well as the information and explanations necessary by the team on a case-expecting basis. The bill suggests that the decision made by a head physician or a specialist specialist should be removed from a ban on forcedness and/or ban on telecommunications status for the application of forced force. The application can also be sufficiency without a fundamental decision. When a decision is made, the National Competent Authority shall submit the details to the expert team. Dearest will not delay the right effects of a decision. The expert team shall state a decision within four active days of the charges, or the charge will be canceled. However, the expert team shall always seek to pronounce a decision as soon as possible. The bill suggests that the decision of a team of specialists in the state of Congress must be made, where the patient in a lawhouse, shall be ruled within a week of the charges. The verdict of a district judge in accordance with the law of this dear case to the U.S. Court. The procedure is based on general regulations for the handling of private matters, with the abnormalities in these laws. Other Courts of the Land than those mentioned at 1st. 167. Treated Privately, No. 91/1991 will not be reported to the Supreme Court. Ordinarily, unless a judge orders a ruling, the court's judgment will not be delayed. I'm going to leave it here, a respectable president. I've studied the main subject of this bill and let me suggest that it be after 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u120	Madam President. I didn't quite understand a minister's preeminence on consultation, but we're dealing with a very delicate matter. A few minutes ago, we had a discussion about what kind of handmanagement can be done about very important rights, such as elections. But here we may be discussing the most sensitive of all, i.e. The right of individuals, their freedom, and some dignity. They're definitely gonna have to be careful. Today's newspaper reports that the chairman of Psychias spoke to the minister of December 22, where the minister had promised full consultation with the patients and the patients' organization on the subject. We haven't been able to do that. What would a minister like to say about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u121	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. First, I want to agree with him that it's important to look into this matter. Hv. A senator also made the request of the chairman of the Psychological Fund, their fine partners, to see that this matter is not going to happen here before the Council, on this discussion. Now the people here have a problem where I get this case in the middle and find it hard to take back the time machine, in the consultation referred to as a means of being on the side and in the processing of this bill. However, it is true that I met a mental - health professional at a very good meeting that covered a number of other topics on the 22nd day and prayed that this case would not be on the agenda to give us the opportunity to meet with our mental - health professional. I'm sorry, I couldn't attend, but this meeting was conducted by the Ministry Experts on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u122	Madam President. I completely disagree with the highest. A minister says he needs to get on some time machine. If he has come to realize that a former health minister has not received adequate consultation, the current minister should arrange the situation to arrive at least as well as it is possible for the council. The evidence is that this organization is not the only ones who make comments to the bill and lack consultation. And, of course, here it is not enough to speak only to a health - care representative; it must be primarily with those involved. And because it's the highest. The health minister admitted that it seemed as if the case had already been neglected to enter the council, I ask the highest authority. Whether he will not consider postponing the matter and taking the necessary discussion to bring it into place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u123	V.E.G. President. I can agree with many things. A senator came in. We can consider taking this issue out here; it is now four years after the inspection, three years after the report was published, and there was a direct indication for health care ministers. We failed, and here we have a bill. I think it's very important that the Council discuss this bill from the Allied agent who conducts OPCAT. I don't think we're looking at this thing because of it. A senator made it clear that this is a very delicate group and sensitive subject, with a group of predominantly critical glasses. I think it's very important for a health committee to consider the matter and to appreciate this aspect. There are reasons to recommend this, therefore, I entered it in the premeditation of my speech, to take this into account in relation to other issues relating to social and workforcer security, other related human rights matters, law of law in general re-examination. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may take hours, but the welfare committee may see the evidence behind such an overall review, and it is taken into consideration in this context. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like the Generals and what. The welfare committee reviews the case. [[The president calls.]] I just think it's fair and reasonable for a health committee to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u124	Wait a minute. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to respect speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u125	President. I have to follow these questions for consultation, because I find this quite amazing answer to the highest degree. Minister. Is it true that because there was no previous consultation, there is no way to consult with users right now? It is never too late to talk, especially in such a delicate and important matter. Here's an open letter from Psychiatry to the health minister and it says, by permission of the President: In the December 22, issue of Awake!, for example, it was only a matter of understanding that a minister respected the mental - health views and who joined in calling in the economy before the bill would be submitted. So we were amazed and disappointed by the news of the bill as unchanged and unreceptive to the Council Wednesday, March 2, and again, March 14th. I'd like to ask a minister, why not just agree? I can't quite figure it out. I'm on the welfare board. I will discipline on the committee that the matter will be sent right back to the minister for consultation. [[The president calls.]] Such a matter cannot be turned aside to the council. [[The president calls.]] I'd say the case's not working well, and it's going to go to Generalis without consulting with users. [[The president calls.]] It's just not possible to offer us this kind of work, Minister, would you please take it back? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this indication that there has been insufficient consultation. The person standing here has a problem. Here's the tip of the Allied agent who's been asked to wait. To make such a decision, a decision must be made on some objective basis that a significant improvement can be made, and I feel that it is reasonable and reasonable. The welfare committee will consider the matter. [[For example: It's a government case.]] Yeah, yeah. I'm putting it up as such, and I believe it was a good job. It's been one traffic through the Generals. It is true that I am a spokesman for serving with people at all levels of service. [[The president calls.]] I think it's fair and natural here and now that the Council is getting this case under discussion and can look at it with these glasses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u127	President. I think I finally understand where the dog is buried in this case. As I understand the highest. A minister is, because you can't make a great deal of improvement. That seems to be the conclusion, despite the ultimate. A minister believes that if he would consult with users, it would be impossible to meet the concern of users in this case. V.E.G. If there's anything wrong with this, a minister can give me correction. When a minister speaks of or what I hear, the discussion is a waste of time because of the highest degree. A minister cannot meet the requirements presented in this matter. I'm sorry to hear that. I'd like to ask a minister, because it's understandable that in financialized health systems, financial institutions need to resort to harsh measures, violent measures, such as under compulsion: Will a minister promote this change? To create and build institutions and health systems where these measures are not needed? [[The president calls.]] That's what I understand users are calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. Now we have tips in a report from the Generals' agent. Here we have indications from the Council of Europe that show that the methods used need to be corrected. It may then be a ideological view of it. All of us are against the application of duress. It just has to be. Under such circumstances, they are in extreme circumstances, and they are well described on any basis by this bill. In view of the ratings, the U.S. commissioner of the Council has noted that the methods used are not corrected. That's what this is about. [[For example, consider: There are other methods that need to be used.]] I'm sure he will. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u129	Madam President. Why is it the highest? Minister to make this request, this evil thing? What a misunderstanding that the U.S. Marshal had a call to the Supreme Court! A health minister would bring in a legal fixation of forcedness, forced labor, and various forms of harshness, unnecessary harshness to weak people in closed wards. That's a huge misunderstanding, Madam President. ▪ The bill remains relevant to patients in medical institutions and to their caregivers. Furthermore, the subject of the bill is addressed to health care professionals. A great deal of consultation was made with the land hospital and the land surgeon's office. There was no consultation with patients or their caregivers, nothing. And the highest. A health minister allows himself to come here and pretend that he is forced to take no account of the European Council's comments and the tip of the U.S. Marshal, who reveals the human rights of the users broken every day. [[The president calls.]] Every day. The official of the Generals was pointing to a violation of human rights, and this is not to be legalized. [[The president calls.]] What is this nonsense? This is a huge misunderstanding, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u130	The President reminds us of what? Again and again, a member of the congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses is showing respect for the time of public speaking. It's one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. I think the point of this is to find the perplexing argument. A senator came on, gave a grammatical argument that this bill is not entitled to, finds the improvement described in the agent's report. I'm just there. But it may be that I'm on the wrong road, and then I'll just admit it, but I'm looking at it that way. I think it's only right for the Council to discuss it. Even if I did, I would not feel at all wrong. A welfare committee would look into the matter from the argument, the grammatic evidence for setting the matter in a different process or the ideologies, simply forbidding it altogether and having no equipment for it when the circumstances arise. [[The president calls.]] But I am stressing the point. A welfare committee thus take the matter to heart, and this is how it is presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u132	Madam President. There is a critical reason not to legalise health care professionals to perform violations of human rights to users of health care professionals who are saved in closed wards. That's a grammatical argument, chief. Minister. A member of the Generals was not asking for a minister to come here and be legally authorized to use violence. That is not the requirement of the Generals' agent. This is wrong. This needs to be a grammatical argument at the highest level. Minister to legalize this. They're not there. This bill says that the exception for the complete ban on forced use is including the following: to, by permission of the President: ▪ Stop the patient from causing injury or other physical harm or a major loss of property. This also applies to preventative measures aimed at avoiding the occurrence of the situation. What's at the top? Minister to this wording, prevent by preventive measures? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u133	V.E.G. President. I have nothing but the bill here with you on this. When we discuss an exception from ban on forcedness, notation, it is assumed that it is permitted in exceptional circumstances to make a decision regarding forcedness. In exceptional circumstances, when such circumstances arise. Then it is specified and explained. That's what's being said in an agent's report, that the evidence is that the situation might arise. To prevent the patient from causing injury or other physical harm or massive loss of property. Second, meeting the patient's basic needs, such as nutrition, health, and hygiene. It is assumed that behind the professional perspective of a head physician or of an expert specialist who makes that decision, they will be asked to seek the patient's position as appropriate. So here they are trying to set a device for the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u134	A respectable president. I have to admit, when reading this bill, I was very surprised, and in itself, you don't quite know where to start. I would like to ask my answers to reach the highest level of questions. Minister. I would judge by the fact that he mentioned in his reply just before that it was a bill from the U.S. Marshal's Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u135	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u136	That's what came out, and more than that, it's a administrative bill, indeed. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of this, especially in view of the fact that the comments made by Aldulis's emissary were appropriate, as it were. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir noted earlier, that the procedure in the hospital was illegal, not necessarily a law needed to be set up to build up and to continue to be illegal - and should not be stopped illegally? The first question I would like to direct to the highest. The minister is: Was there a secretary working on the bill? It's the highest. Minister agrees with what is presented in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u137	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristín's Kristínardóttir of Gunnarsdóttir. I'm here to begin with, because if I've said here that this is the headquarters of the Alleger's agent, I think I've also entered it in my speech and I'm aware that this is a prime bill. Healthcare Minister, who responds to a report and the OPCAT agent of the Generals, in charge of this. I think I've also come to see that in my story talk, but I'm sorry for it, Mr. Honorable President, if I've said it like this, because of course it's not true. I just read it with these glasses, this bill, that this is a way of reacting to the indication that it's not fixed by the methods used. I hear what's going on here, and yes, we're more talking about, and that's why I brought it into my speech, ideologies. [[The president calls.]] I know well to think that once you put such laws or authorize them in some way under such circumstances that under compulsion it will lead to further forcedness, or violence will result in further violence if you write it to that place somewhere. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm looking at this bill here to improve the equipment and put the improvements under the methods, professional methods, which need to be applied in certain cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u138	If there's still some misunderstanding about the hour of speech, it's one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u139	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I can't hear any better than that. A minister is not absolutely convinced that this bill is the best solution to this problem. I'd like to direct another question to the highest level. Ministers in which it is quite clear from this reviewed report by the General agent that in this country's hospitals there is a decoupling operation, a major intervention in the individual freedom of the people, and forced without correction, which is said to be illegal. In view of the fact that this bill is performing now and in the light of these comments that occurred a long time ago, it seems, if measured, the project that is being done in the hospital is spinning. about forcing people to clean and feed. That doesn't sound very good. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Minister: Since the agent's report was released until this bill, which has not yet been approved, is this non-saturable operation still in the hospital? [[The president calls.]] Is this still going on? Was this not stopped immediately following General's appearance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u140	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the second question. Senator. I'd like to state that in the general agent's report, nothing unusual happened, it was a professional method of action, but that lack of work improved. On this point, I have to build my answer here and nothing else, and I always assume that there is a professional work at the National Institutes of Health. Here, however, we are discussing very delicate matters and people in a more delicate position, and the question is natural. But I don't have any more answers to a question. A senator but this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u141	Madam President. In order to change the subject a little bit, I would ask for some credit to be interrupting this important discussion. I would have liked to bring this up earlier today, but I didn't have a chance until now. I just want to call the council's attention to the fact that there have been no changes in the criminal violation of the administration of the council in terms of citizens' rights applications. It has not yet changed in the position of the National Institute of Iceland, at the highest position. Minister of Justice. In spite of a clear legal opinion, there is no big attack on this subject, which clearly states that governments should deliver data that they still refuse to deliver. I'd like to ask the highest. President if there's anything on their side on this matter, as I have not heard anything about sitting on the General and Education Committee on Civil Rights. I'll wait and wonder how long we'll wait for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u142	Madam President. This has become a very boring matter. Let us put it in context with the subject that is on the program today, asking why. In the case of Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir about whether these crimes are still being practiced against patients, it is in line with the fact that the government is still violating the laws of the Congress on the citizen's rights. And then when you get in front of an election law that was just starting to work, it's not like they should be, and you think the Council would have clearly set it up, you wonder, "What are we here for? We'll put a law on the rest, and those things that are so interpreted as they are appropriate, because the execution of action is just a case as it pleases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No matter what action we do here, no matter what Congress we agree with, no matter what laws we put them, they say, "Oh, that's so unfortunate, let's do this somehow differently. [[The president calls.]] That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u143	A respectable president. I just want to come up here to celebrate and thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter Ardísli for bringing this up and following it so closely. At the same time, I would like to use the opportunity to condemn this treatment of authority, as shown in the procedures of the Minister of Justice and the Foreign Institute of Justice, as clearly indicated. It's completely unannounced, and with this it's getting very weak in the role of the Generals, and we can't proceed with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u144	Madam President. We do well to examine the context of these issues. The Minister of Justice encourages his office to violate the law of civil rights by the law of justice, while a minister of justice tries to exploit a war state in Ukraine to squeeze through the bill of a change in the law of foreigners. Because the bill is aimed at launching relief under law broken down by the Foreign Institute in the last eight years. For example, Palestinian refugees were deprived of services, on the contrary to the code of law, and rather than facing violations of human rights, and the government should only be ashamed of them, wanting to change the law in order to become illegal. The same is the highest. Healthcare providers should do so regarding patient rights. The authority's comment does not say that this process is supposed to be settled, they should just stop tortured people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u145	Madam President. I come up here just to say and to mention the obvious, that we have come to this place disrespectfully to the Council of this particular matter that it is being bitten, not just in that matter, but in the progress and advancement of other matters in the chamber. I know it's the highest. The health minister is not responsible for this case here, but I think it's a big history of what we're about to do here that we're starting about 1st. about extremely important matters, sensitive issues where fundamental interest is taking place and we need to break this up because of the problem. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttur is right and reasonable to do all she can to promote this cause. But this is the situation we're in. We should be discussing something completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u146	Madam President. I have to say, I'm shocked to read that four years ago, it was pointed out that this country had an intervention that was contrary to the Constitution and the Convention of Human Rights and the State did nothing about it. Last year, human rights were broken on foreigners who had applied for asylum, and the state wanted nothing to do about it. There's now a violation of information legislation for the Generals, and the state doesn't want to do anything about it. Is it okay to break people's laws? Are we allowing this to happen just because there are foreigners or people with mental disorders? Is it possible, then, to push everything aside? I say no to that. I thought I was living in a society in which we were thinking less power but would not harm them and the authority was not breaking the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u147	President. The subject we have is a little serious in view of words at the highest level. Minister on the counter to what. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir, in which Minister of Gunns says that it was reported in the Aldus agent's report that there was no abnormal activity and that there was a lack of employment. So he must base his answer here on nothing else and assume that he has been a professional member of the National Institutes of Health. I understand this as if the Generals agent came here about three years ago and said that there was a violation of human rights in the medical facility and that there are only professional practices with no improvement. I can't see in the reply of a minister that it's been stopped ever since. I ask myself: In the process of this case, if there was a suggestion that there was a violation of human rights, then we must have stopped and why go looking for improvement to do it again? [[The president calls.]] But no, it's clearly not yet being done, and as a result, it needs to be restored to keep breaking them up. [[The president calls.]] What kind of reality are we here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u148	Madam President. I can assure all members of the council and all the highest. My advice is that I have just as much experience in this discussion as you do. Now, though, I've come up and ask for information on what has gone between the Council President and the Government in an effort to find some reconciliation in this matter. I've gone so far as to send a written inquiry and ask for information on this. The request has been refused as it did not address the Council's administration. It's all very complicated. The only thing that can be done to demand that the council be treated with the dignity they deserve, that the law will be followed when it is clear that they are not being followed, is to come up here again and again and to crush the fact that this is not the way it should be, this is not to fail. It should not be tolerated that we have made laws, that are a law in effect, that the government is only responsible for. I reiterate my question to President: What communication has taken place, what is the result? When can we stop talking about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u149	A respectable president. We've been discussing fundamental issues that concern people's human rights. For some reason, there have been only two, at most three, staff members in the room. There's only one now, topv. Healthcare Ministers and No. 2. I'd like to try asking the highest question. Health Minister whether he will be interested in this procedure at the General Assembly, which has already been ours for the granting of the Icelandic citizen's rights. I'm absolutely certain that it's the highest. Health Minister is a philanthropist. He wants well, and I've always experienced him as a moral politician. I think it would be valuable for us to know how he feels about this procedure against the Generals and whether he could even consider using himself in some way that the Council can in this respect, when it comes to the granting of the citizenship rights, perform this legal function.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u150	Madam President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, I'm sick of coming up here all the time and talking about how citizens' rights are doing. However, compared with the emotions that I imagine to those of over 100 people who have been swimming on their asses for a quarter of a year, that will fade. They submitted an application in October and calculated by getting an answer from the Council by Christmas. It's March, all of a sudden. Speaking of human rights, which we probably don't want to break, why can they be treated badly? Why is this group of pigs allowed at the General Assembly to crush rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u151	Madam President. I'd kind of like to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I came in here in January and thought it would be over long after I got back. But there's still talk about this, which surprises me a bit. But I agree that this is not to be passed, and the law must be carried out, and the Council must be able to play a role. These families are entitled to this treatment and have paid money to be treated, which is naturally below all caves. But hopefully this won't still be me next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u152	Madam President. Now, Mrs. President has been considerably on the bell lately because we've been through the speech session. I remind you, though, that it was here that the former senator suggested that there was an immediate stretchable concept, so that two, three seconds, then, can't be much. I don't miss my speaking session. I just want to bring a few things. I don't sit on a welfare committee, but I think this case is extremely important because it's about all the most vulnerable groups in society. Now it may be right after the highest. A minister said that an agent said that there was nothing unusual about these matters, but there was no improvement. I still allow myself to question the highest level. A minister puts it in proper perspective because if there is something missing, it is natural. In reality, you can see what it would mean if the lawgiver repeatedly changed the law in order to cover abnormal procedures, e.g. Police business, illegal arrests, stuff like that. Of course, we cannot enjoy such an attitude. It seems to me, and that a minister even confirmed that it was being met by an agent's comments, yes, but by giving the procedures it describes as legitimate by changing the law. I'm not necessarily sure that in any case, it was what the agent meant when he brought these comments. There are a number of things that we know will increase the likelihood of using these methods. Now, I'm not going to rule out that in some case, this may be necessary, and neither have those who speak to patients. Of course, doing so does not mean that it is done. And if, at least, such factors as neglect of housing and out - of - date facilities lead to a loss of human rights, at least it is easy for the government to take action and should be on the program at the same time. On the other hand, I felt that an overwhelming answer to a minister would not really be able to do anything in the things that addressed the patient's organization or patients because of the highest level. A former minister would not have done so, and then he would not be able to do it now. Of course, he could respond right away when he received the tip of December 22; stop, to this discussion, and discuss with these groups to ensure that the viewpoint of the Land Hospital and Health Care Professionals, which is certainly to be taken into account, would not necessarily exceed that of the other group. Therefore, I feel that a minister should have stayed, tried this better, and even felt that in this position he should ask for a wearout on this discussion and call the bill to him and work better because I also find it completely unacceptable to refer only to a welfare committee. Well, thank you, we've been getting quite a lot of underpriests into the council, and we don't really have a role of correction, above the fact that we're looking at a business. But we must be able to make that requirement, and we must be able to expect and expect things to come into the council as closely as possible. I felt that it was in the words of a minister earlier when he said that he had come to realize that there were certain things that were subject to doubt, but it was only the welfare committee to consider it. For this matter, I think that the welfare committee will just be very busy with it because while the goal of the bill is good, the purpose will not always be devoted to the occasion. As I said before, and many have said and will yet say, this is about the most precious and priceless rights of very sensitive people, many of whom are unable to carry their hands over their heads and therefore rely on an organization that the wicked are not even able to get the necessary advice on making the bill. Just that, Madam President, is kind of a drop-rate, although there may be some good things in the bill, and I know the intentions are good. V.E.G. A minister needs to explain a little more clearly whether I and others are properly understood that he has considered the comments of an agent in a way that would primarily be to correct the law so that everything that an agent made comments and was illegal at the time will be legal once we accept the bill. I don't look at it that way, and actually not just me because there's a mental help at least says that the conclusion of unsatisfying is worse law. Laws have been changed so that no longer violate laws to violate the rights of mental - health professionals in certain cases. I just think it's a very strange way of making all of this, and I don't think this case starts well. So I repeat, I thought it would be quite interesting to have a secretary's order to stop, take the case, call all these groups, bring the case back in, and the welfare committee can handle it so carefully. I think we can promise the highest. Minister that we will do nothing but work on the case as fast and safely as we can. Of course, even though I mentioned it as an organization, it is not just a mental - health aid that is being treated today by the chairman of mental - health professionals. The Controversy has found this to be true, for example. and the National Institute of Development. There's a lot that needs explanation. I really hope that no matter what happens now, whether the discussion ends today or after the weekend, and the matter ratio to the welfare committee, the Congress takes a good time to cover all the views of the matter because I think it's absolutely right at the Supreme Court. Minister that this is not a group of political issues in any sense. I think most of us would like to approach it with as much humility as possible for this complex project. I'm just saying in terms of what it is now, "Good luck."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u153	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Logi A Einarsson's talk. I just want to tie it here, in the light of the input of the debate of the dog. A senator, that I am always in the opinion that the council is permitted to discuss matters. I wouldn't be bringing this case here if I didn't think it would have been a good thing to do, although I could quite agree, because more people could have come to prepare the bill itself, that it wouldn't have been just a follow-up. However, I would like to reiterate what I said in the previous talk that it is specifically stated in the agent's report that there is no adequate ground for law, but it is also said that it was not to be seen that patients are treated inhuman or disrespectfully. This is important to me, a respectable president. That's where even the two of them come from. until such measures seem to be inexpensive and time limiting. I am convinced that professional practices are always guided in our medical institutions. It was so assessed that there would be a quick response - I pointed here for three years - and what setting would be better for it than for the council and for what might be done. to appreciate the grammatical logic that could lead to improvement in this bill? [[The president calls.]] If we're talking about taking the bill in another process, evaluating it in the context of other laws, then we're just taking it in a whole different process. Then all I want is the evidence. [[The president calls.]] There is no better place than the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u154	Mr. President. I think it's the best. Ministers now feel somewhat more convinced that the matter is good than he was before. I understood the best. Ministers well, he wanted the council to discuss the matter, and even if so, the council is to discuss it. But he also said now and confirmed what he said earlier that he did not feel that enough people have yet to prepare the case. And here we are not talking about a lack of anything to prepare the case. Here we are talking about the people involved. We're talking about the patients. We're talking about the stakeholders, the patients, and in view of this, I just don't think it's done well enough, especially when they're doing so hard right now and criticizing the trial. I just feel like, in the half-hours since the hearing was spoken, a minister goes a little further and decides if he feels that the case he himself is offering is good or not. [[Up front.]] That's all for itself. That's just enough reason to sit back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I was just trying to tie up why this bill is in existence and why I'm putting it out. There was no other plan, but there may be. A senator read something else from my reaction. I am convinced, too, that the matter is being handled well. A welfare committee, and then, of course, it's a challenge. A senator interpreted my words in another way. I think it's only fair and natural that the council deals with the matter, as it is over. You're right. In his talk, a senator said that there are many benefits in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u156	Mr. President. Yes, there are many benefits, and we'll definitely make that point. But we are now primarily discussing things that do not improve, even things that look worse, and those things are of enormous importance. We know exactly why the ultimate. A minister will state the matter. We know the occasion. That's not the question. But what I still feel is, "I feel the highest. " Minister of the bill itself is good, or doesn't he like it? I felt that he would make too many defences so that the project could only bring it up and drive it into the council. So I ask the Minister to consider it only, and the Ministry even gives comments on the matter itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u157	Mr. President. It was very interesting to hear the highest. The minister mentioned earlier that he felt that there was a reason to bring this matter here to get a discussion about it at the council, following the comments of the General Agent. I'm gonna say the bottom line. Minister as to the fact that I believe that the Council is a reason for discussing patients' rights and basic human rights against some kind of pressure. What might help me, however, is that the site discussed in this bill has long passed. We're way past this. This bill is designed to legalize a vastly broad, wide range of sources for intervention in human freedom so that it seems to force food into it, to force it to clean. I don't know how it works, and I'm not sure that I really want to hear the listings of it, strained medication, we're talking about a huge intervention in people's rights. That's not a lot of heat. People are generally spoken of as forbidden to enter these rights, but the terms are so broad and so easy. It is said that even if a person is considered dangerous to himself or to others, it is permitted to be forced. Anyway, I'm here to answer. paritaprevir As for Logi Einarsson and his talk, I cut the subject - and actually his answers to the highest. Ministers I still wondered about, because I still don't understand how we can be in this place. Hv. A senator mentions that we all know where this comes from, what the purpose is, and that behind this bill. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. The senator will find out more about this. What if people are not improving their rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u158	Mr. President. I just don't think it can and there's no point other than to improve rights. Of course, the subjects are sufficient; the materials are, of course, an agent's report. The reasons are also that we actually live in a home and a financial system that may not have been able to produce the humanity needed in these circumstances, so I think it's just fine. Minister, put this on his index for the winter. However, I remind you that the case came in during the last assembly and was stopped because it was not good enough. It's going to miss the highest. Minister to enter almost unchanged now. What gives the highest. A minister's occasion to believe that there's something better now than when it couldn't get through last time? I don't know. It is not excluded that there are only other people on the welfare committee who have other opinions. I don't think it is, though. I just think that reviews, careful inspections, and other matters, visitors, revealed that we were not on the wrong track and that they needed to make some improvements. In view of this, I find it very strange that a minister used the illustration of the time machine. He would have exactly because the case couldn't come through the last time, after another minister had submitted it, should use this opportunity now, and look for more extensive references and help with the bill. In view of the fact that those not called at the table are patients and their spokesmen, I find this especially serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u159	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator will try to see for himself that he believes that behind this bill there is good intentions only. I believe, however, that both the bill and the discussions that have taken place here that this is an out - of - date thought. There is an out - of - date thought behind this bill, and there is something that might have been prevented by further consultation with those who have been critical of this one most, have been pointing out new ways to resolve these issues. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Minister earlier he referred to the Council of Europe and the tips that came from it. Then I'd just like to draw attention, and I'll take a closer look in my speech under this matter, that the Council of Europe concluded many years ago that the state should aim to eliminate complete psychiatric pressure. And what are we doing? We're extending it. We're extending it even further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u160	Mr. President. Yeah, I just repeat what I said earlier, I think good mind follows. I know the highest. Ministers not by then, and I'm not going to pretend to have a premise to state what is right when, why, and so on. That is exactly what has to be done with the quality of the bills and the call for all who may be involved in the decisions made under these difficult circumstances. It simply has not been done. It's shocking, and that's enough to make me not convinced that the case should have been presented at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u161	Mr. President. It's interesting how the government is starting to use terms that you thought you understood in some new way. One of these terms is church treatment. Trying to handle Congress means that we, who are used to the council, just send a case that is in agreement with the board for review, and then, with some minor version of the council, it has become a law. But in the government, it's become a dress code for having some issues completely out of control with the government, having no energy to work between them, and throwing it through to the council in the hope that somehow we can strengthen it. I can't even remember how many things they were talking about during the last term. I only mention the poisonous cocktail, which was a highland park, a frame plan, and a National Park. They were to be taken care of by Congress, and they all died, killed in the last term because the government and the Ministers could not complete the initial project, which is due to our proper affairs, which they all agree on. So I wonder which way. A senator would feel that there might be some possibility in this case that there is not a single feeling in the constitutions and rather than taking some serious stand in this case with human rights and against the pressure, e.g. they just relied on the council to take away their bother and either make this case decent or they can use the council, rather than their own lack of work, as an excuse that it has not run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u162	Mr. President. I don't really trust myself to read whether it's any of the government's unlocated classes. I can't figure out this government body, and it sometimes reminds me of science fiction and some phenomenon that developed in old literature, where men were straddling bodies of beasts, and from which no one could see. I don't think they're much of a team. But I thought this was interesting. A senator said about the treatment of Congress. It's, for example. Conventional treatment when members of Congress submit a plagion proposal that is approved for a careful discussion, even of all members of the council. However, it is dishonorable in the treatment of Congress when the government does not care to follow them. Because it's the highest. A health minister is close to giving a case about a free psychology service that was proposed and accepted during the last term, if I recall correctly. But no, I don't know what it is that makes it this case is in this suit. V.E.G. A minister is expected to inherit this and all I have to decide is how he will take the case and bring it in here. He should have taken more time. I think it's obvious that it would have been better for the case, that would have created credibility. That's at least It is not good at the beginning of the treatment that patients and their spokesmen feel that they have been involved in discussions about this. I think that's what we're primarily into. I'm not going to make any opinions on this matter of my own.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u163	Mr. President. That's where we met. A senator has a bit of a good note about the Congress treatment of the Parliamentary decision adopted at the General Assembly because I wanted to ask about one of the approved legal agreements of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. Because there has been a little discussion of time machines, the bill of the material according to the proposal was to be legally established on December 13, 2020, which is two days before this bill was originally placed in the consultation mystery. The Convention calls for the rich obligation of Member States to have close consultation with disabled persons and to ensure their active participation. There's no need for a time machine. It just needs to be met, for example. This deal, and we'll consult with the people who are most concerned with these matters. The report speaks of a great deal of consultation with the people who use this law and nothing to the people on whom these laws are to be applied, the people on which the United Nations treats the people whom the State is committed to agree with. [[The president calls.]] There's no need for a time machine. All you have to do is follow the deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u164	Mr. President. Indeed, since this bill has not been considered to be a United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, the National Association is a source of criticism to this bill. Or it is not sufficiently certain that the bill is in harmony with the rights of disabled persons, so it carries up to one well. There is a complete lack of consultation with a large proportion of people who, of course, are actually going to experience something, decisions that are natural, rather than doubles, but are going to do it today, and we need to look for all the ways in which this is going to be okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u165	A respectable president. I'm on a welfare committee that will receive this bill for treatment and I'm glad that the report is quite detailed on the history of the case and the reasons why this bill is here. It contains, for example, it is, as we know, that we have listened to the discussion here today, that it is necessary to create a clear set of laws on the procedure that is already being performed in the medical institutions of this country, the laws on forcedness, the use of force, other measures in the self-employment, the intervention of freeness and privacy of patients. I agree with what has been discussed in the discussion, including the following: When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson, that the matter itself and the interests behind it are the means of taking pride in it and showing initiative in it, and that it should show humility in view of the nature of the situation in dealing with its construction and should have been a real, material discussion and conversation. I listened to the top talk of the story. A health minister to which he opened up this point has found criticism of this point in the media today. While I understand that, of course, it is urgent to respond materially and materially and rapidly, in view of the fact that there has been some since the World Council's agent made very serious comments, as is attributed to the case. The report, however, would have, and perhaps not least, due to the very content of the comments, should give real attention to the discussion. I also realize that it's the highest. A health minister was not the minister who first brought the matter, but in view of the time since then, he could have stopped. These comments and criticism are not new. I think with all this action, it leads to the nature of the case, and I'm not going to pretend to have insight or an understanding of the circumstances, but it's done and done after the assessment of doctors, and it's obvious that when it's used, it's almost always a mess with what's going to happen. You can see when you look at the reviews of the bill that those who criticize the noncommunication, the organization and the people, recognize the need for legalization. That is why I feel so sorry that it was not ambitious to allow this discussion to take place. With reference to the nature of the case and to the delicate interests behind it, I feel completely unacceptable that the case was handled in the highest way. The minister of health is described here. We know the occasion, we know the reasons, we know that the occasion is significant in the Generalist Report on his follow-up visit, of my own initiative, in the closed centres of the National Hospital at the Shell, Justice, Security Department, and the specialized rehabilitation department. This visit was in 2018. Admittedly, it is urgent to respond in such a way that the Icelandic law is clear and can serve its purpose. In order for it to be able to do so, it must work together and so that the legislation itself is not in the spirit of the action here spoken of as being forced by nature. It is said that there was a substantial lack of sufficient authority and that there was a significant need for local legislation for these measures needed. I'll say this with them in advance that we know it by means of the actions underneath. That's why I think there's one thing to make things right and that the adjustment is clear, but it needs to be done too, and I notice that that that's what mental - health workers refer to primarily, i.e. I don't know what to say. That it did not, although it did so repeatedly, and all who have observed the discussion have seen it, and it has been observed more than once, more than twice and all this time in the Ministry has been fully clear on the part of a mental - health team that it was the sincere desire for consultation to take place. It is also critical that any form of ideologies based and mentioned as an on - the - tarnitary basis should be adjusted at any given time to a mirror for some particular treatment ideologies, such as. that the treatment core is not close. I feel so sorry in the light of their more serious comments that the bill is working in the way that you can see and scream at you, and we last saw in the media today that they make serious comments. It is by the case of Mental - health care, by a land hospital, on the part of a surgeon, that all these organizations seem to agree that they are positive, that it is normal and necessary to revise the law in this regard. A mental - health professional notes that there's some improvement, but I think it's almost, understandably, I'd like to say, an effect on how these laws are to be born. I didn't mean to keep this very far, but I was impressed, too, because there has been a little discussion of the review and viewpoints of Psychiatry, that we also see comments on the rights of disabled people. In this context, I allow myself to mention that my party, the class I belong, has long spoken to them of the agreement on the rights of disabled people. It would have been interesting to see how this bill could have affected the contents of this bill if we had established it, entered the Icelandic legislation of the regulations contained in the contract, and whether it would have affected the content of this bill. It is uncomfortable to know that we cannot be sure what the effects are on some of the articles of this bill. In its review of the Development Fund, the organization goes to court for the welfare committee to take care of the work of the Committee. One thing is to talk about political treatment and that the council should be allowed to work this case. There's something to be said about the obvious, that always will be the case. Putting it on the table as some contribution to a good job is a special approach because this is the usual treatment always done and no excuse that, despite the fact that it was already there and that it was new. In fact, a health minister himself had a meeting with a mental - health professional about what to do with this bill and how to put it into practice, the coming of the Council to the case now does not change who is the leading story, and in what way it should be done. Minister will introduce the matter to the council Hall. We can see this in the report and the whole issue of consultation with a land hospital and with a surgeon. It is consulted with the Ministry of Justice and Department of Social Affairs, as well as with none of the patients and their caregivers. That's what I think this is. I'd like to leave it at 1st. to mention this point about the rights of disabled people. I find it disturbing to see the tone in the review of Developmental Help as it seems that it did not seem to have been concerned about the interests and viewpoints of the disabled in this regard, looking to the content of the contract. I would be interested to hear especially from the highest. A health minister in this regard and in what way he sees the background and whether there is reason to address the bill specifically in their view.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u166	Mr. President. First, I'd like to come in with that as a matter of course. At the end of his talk about the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People because the time line is so odd about all of this. An OPCAT report published in October 2019, three months earlier, the General Assembly has approved a resolution of the UN Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People. So the Ministry had both in hand, a message from the General's agent on the need to do something and clearly wants the contract on such a bill to agree with the group involved. I don't quite get it to make sure it wasn't done. And that it has not been doubled, when the second edition of the bill that we have in our hands now was submitted, when the contract was due to be closed by the Generals' will. Now, we've talked about the last days of the Commission's respect for the decision of the Generals and the discussion taking place here in the hall. What does this say about the state of Congress against stewards?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u167	A respectable president. In view of these words and the fact that there has been a great deal of pressure in this hall today as to the disrespect of government against Congress, I will avoid that discussion. But I reiterate what I mentioned in the previous talk in the light of a question. Senator. It is noted in the review of Developmental Help that they are particularly concerned that this bill is not to be seen on either the paragraphs of the bill, the report, or the comments of some articles that they considered to be specifically a United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, and that the national organisation, therefore, particularly goes in order to strongly encourage the health committee to make sure that the Health Ministry was careful that the regulations of the bill are in full agreement with the disabled people's rights rights, more is not safe. They're waiting for the council to secure this now, because from reading the bill, it's obvious that development aid is not sure that it is. Materially, this comment is very familiar with what goes on in the context of mental - health issues, and I mention them because of the highest degree. He/she is seated here to discuss specific articles of the agreement on the fact that the general commitments under the contract are to accept all relevant legislation and administrative measures to ensure the rights of which are approved in the contract. Then there are points directly related to the input of this bill, e.g. opinions such as that disability under no circumstances justify a detriment of freedom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u168	Mr. President. I may have to look up the bottom a little bit. A senator on account of her previous action by the prosecution and knowledge of the legal system. Here we are on page four f-and-g- team, one about a specialised team and, on the other, on the other hand, on the case of proponents, that say the resources available to the people if they don't want to remain under the supervision of the invitation. A team of experts to whom the report is first available shall state a ruling within four active days of the year when the complaint was received, but the start date for the delay is considered to be the next effective day after the year the charges arrive so that the case actually is longer. Then it is permitted to declare the verdict of a specialised team to a local judge and to decide the case within a week of charges. If the person is not yet to make a decision, the case can be addressed to the National Court and the situation should be promptly treated where possible. It's a little long time, isn't it? Let the national rights lead to a break in people's most sensitive human rights, the right to their own decision to bathe or eat, to force medication, and so forth. Does this harmonize with what we want to see in the treatment when severity is as high as in such matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u169	A respectable president. You're right next door. Since it is specifically addressed, a senator is in itself a positive and, in fact, absolutely fundamental in the context of the terms of forced action to comply with the right to sue and right to review the case and that it is not a final decision for the first time. I also noticed in the report that considering the comments, it is being discussed with the importance of keeping these laws in mind with other legal instruments and in penalties. It goes back to the same place that because things are so fragile and because they are so difficult, such measures can be difficult in families, it is so important that the legislation is allowed to be born through conversation and consultation. About the deadline as long as it takes. A senator named them I must admit that I had not considered them and what was practical in this regard. A week remembered at least It is a long time in relation to the demands of our penalties. That's where I think it comes back to the fact that this needs to be considered in a context because we're also talking about, of course, for all other reasons, decisions that are always taken on the part of the authorities in distaste of what is going to happen to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-14-51.u170	Mr. President. I've been looking at this and I feel like I'm looking at something that might have been written like 30 years ago. I don't understand, wait, are we here now? Is this what's happening right now? Are we trying to have our system like this? We're not trying to grow out of it. We are not trying to get into something else, new and better. We are not taking into consideration the effect that being under compulsion affects a person. Where's it cleaned up? Where can we discuss the long - term effects on people who are under compulsion, and how can we go in other ways? But what I thought was quite remarkable is that they're talking about keeping track of mail and mail deliveries. Why? Why is this being monitored? What's dangerous about this? What are they doing? The patient's access to his property is limited and removed from his will. Okay, so it's something we think is necessary to do in our clinics. This takes a real turn, as we are forcing one group to perform the activities of daily life and another group, people with psychiatric disorders, we are not even following for treatment, those who go to the emergency department for suicide problems. We're not even wondering about them, but if you've gone to Klepps' mental wards, we're forcing people to bathe. What's going on? It's in either the ankles or the ear. Either you're here and you're listening to what we're saying or you're not here, and we're not watching you or wondering what you're going to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
