ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u1	Named why. 2.m. That's the north side. "Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. Madam President. I recommend more part of the environment and transport committee for the Committee on Air travel bill. The bill suggests: There is new overall air travel laws. The objective of the bill is primarily to ensure EU Regulation number or 2018 11 39 improve as well as secondary types, which are to establish laws that take into account the national commitments of Iceland. Then the main element of the bill is to be safe in air transport. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. A lot of stories. This is reported in a committee study. The aforementioned opinion is followed by the Commission's discussion on the subject. More part wants to make a special decision. The Commission discussed the need to provide the basis for the EU Air Security Regulation and whether this would be dependent on the regulations of the Constitution in the light of the foreign organisation's introduction to the Commission and the judicial authority involved in the implementation of the Regulation. However, in view of the scope of the Lawgiver's assessment of the interpretation of the constitution, the majority of the committee's assessment was that the bill harmonizes with it. With increasing scope for EU air safety standards, it is clear that changes in air travel laws, No. 60/1998, are important in the light of Iceland's commitments under the EEA Convention. Under the Commission, new sections of the bill raised questions related to the sale of authority in the field of the European Commission and the Court. However, as determined by the panels presented to the committee, it is possible that on the basis of current air travel laws, No. 60/1998, have already been introduced by European rules, which, in many respects, contain authority sources comparable to those for which the bill is intended to provide further improvements. It is a relative foreign source, rather than a burden to Icelandic parties. A greater estimate is that the implementation of 2018 11 to 39 is an important prerequisite for the competitiveness of Icelandic airlines, air management, flying history, and other market members. In the case of the higher rights to active flying competition and secondary service activity, there is one basis for economic prosperity and the competitiveness of modern society. Taking into account the above points, the majority of them focus on the scope of the legislator's ability to evaluate how Iceland's involvement in international cooperation should be conducted if it is for the benefit of country and nation. The committee then discussed comments received to the committee and appealed to the crew's members. The majority estimate was, however, that there were no problems to be solved with the change in the bill, with its focus on safety. However, the more part calls attention to the importance of looking for ways to deal with information relating to terms of recruitment and monitoring of home base registration. At the same time, the Committee discussed a detailed 159th paragraph. where a background check is required for individuals to enter thetain area. However, the majority did not consider it a reason to change the bill's provision for the exception of the change to 6 mgr. the law on the provision of a provisional principle. The majority stress the importance of the provision, e.g. to prevent any kind of terrorism and other illegal actions. In addition, the committee discussed stopping air traffic because of unsolved pay on the basis of 198 C.E. The bill. However, because of the criticism received by the Commission, in the opinion of the greater part, there is no reason to respond to it in view of the interests of the arrangement to ensure that, on the other hand, the majority contributes to a change of 198. the bill so that the cost to the operator of a flight selection for services and a flight guide will be ensured by a legal system in either aerospace or aerospace part, the owner or manager of an aircraft registered on the land. In addition, the main changes in the majority of the two parts are: First, a change is put in place in order to implement military transfers by air. It's 112 and 115th. The bill. In view of the greater part, it is important to respond to State Department reviews of 4 mg. Section 112. and ensures the regulations of military transfers via air travel No. 464/2019 maintain value with side. A parallel view of this adds the more part to the change of the provision. This will add some of the items to the 115th parr. The bill will be removed in order to maintain agreement in the bill that it must be explained to the secretary of defense that has the authority to set up a regulation on military transport. Second, there is a change in airport planning procedures of 146. And a hundred and forty-fiveth. To meet criticism, it is patient to look for a bill that does not take into account the local affairs of society in the light of their brief approach to the rules' sentences. For the safety of the flight, there's 100. 46. g. The bill suggested that a minister be allowed to set specific planning guidelines for airports as open to the public, but comparable regulations exist in the current law. The importance of ensuring that air space, environmental airports are safe from barriers, as well as that airport planning is the righter strategy for rural society in securing airport security. In discussing the case of the committee, there were some criticisms in an earlier arrangement, which included: Promoting that airport planning procedures, which carried out a new strategy for rural society, did not agree with the Constitutional community self-control rights. 1.mg. 78th par. The constitution. Then there would be an irrefutable arrangement in view of the fact that this was the way a organizational authority would be moved away from those involved. The majority agree with the importance of community control. It also emphasizes the need for all flight routes to be highly regarded as security. As a result, the design of airport planning procedures requires a clear process that both ensures flight security and gives rural society a clear approach to their design. Based on the above, a majority of the factors considered that it is appropriate to remove a second cause of 1st. Ninety-six. where regulations of the first action take place both in new flights and in the existing airports and when it becomes clear that a decision on the location of the new airport will not be taken by the order of planning. For the context, transporting material 3 mg is considered appropriate. Ninety-six. of 147rd. The bill. 146. 7. The bill suggests that a special task force of the Ministers involved in the United States Airway Management Board and the member of the rural community should make a suggestion that airport planning procedures and other consultations should be made on their behalf. A greater part of it seems normal that in the Regulation the roles of such groups and that equality will be kept in their command so that they may be subject to at least one representative of any community involved in the matter but never fewer than two members of the rural community. Then it is suggested that the purpose of a flight selection, is to ensure adequate flight security in the least limitation of the airport - surrounding areas. The majority think that by this means rural communities can directly participate in the preparation and construction of the rules and that the guidelines of the organization do not include any more restrictions on the environment around the airport than is necessary because of the flying security of the viewpoints. It is also clearly stated that rural society should make sure that their strategy and other decisions on the basis of organizational procedures conform to flight planning procedures after they have been established and then organized in such a way that further development of rural planning in the field of flight security is being carried out. These are proposed minor or legal changes that do not require specific consideration. Based on the rest of the indicators, a detailed discussion on changes in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee. According to the above, a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees are proposed to be agreed with the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. A German Parliamentary of 1289. Under the opinion of more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee, as well as the above, why Councilmen, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarni Jónsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ingibjörg of Ísrael, while Orri Jóhannsson and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. At the same time, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Bergþór Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee, have agreed to this. Madam President. The bill on air travel, which covers 300 pages and 286 grams, extensive and fundamental interests in Icelandic society. This is a so - called developed law code. The aim of the law is to promote and ensure safe, pay and efficient flight transport taking into account consumer protection, environmental issues and national commitments. Madam President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u2	A respectable president. I come up here as the chairman of this case, and I'd like to explain a few things. Although the bill has not been formally referred to the Economic and Business Committee after the first discussion, the Committee has discussed the details of Deloitte and Business Council. We had a meeting with these sources this morning and we appreciate them very much. As a result, we met with an office of taxes at the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs and reviewed various legal matters and after this review, I think we at the Committee, so most of us, are just if something is more convinced than before, that it will be best to accept this bill now before the end of the council. This is especially true in regard to Article 1. to take away any doubt as to how to handle a budget that is paid with money other than the two branches of this bill. In fact, they have the intention to eliminate uncertainty and provide a measure of prerogative and taxation in the country and the legal adjustment we are making in Article 1. is a reaction to the decision of the head tax committee in case of No. 42/2022. It was refused, therefore, to administer an exchange paid in the form of stocks, such as the sale of property and to determine the current taxable market. The Economic and Economic Affairs Department points out that the results of the head tax committee are not conclusively related to whether other types of tax-related income are involved and, as a result, it is determined that there is uncertainty, and with the decision also there is uncertainty as to whether and how their precedents take place from nonparties, such as partnerships and partnerships. But what may be most important is that by changing the law, it is not only destroying this uncertainty but also ensuring equality between taxes. Here, by the permission of the President, I'm going to quote a financial and economic memo to the Commission if the result is interpreted as having a lack of taxation rights under these circumstances. It is when a private partner is being separated, and the distribution is paid with property other than money. In this way, it lulls into a gap in the tax system that could be easily abused. The tax system is built up so that an active income tax on the labour market is generally 37.6%. The conclusion is that taxation income could be avoided as a result of differences in tax price and market prices simply by assigning money instead. Such a conclusion is unacceptable and includes not only the inflexible nor the competitive position of an enterprise. Deloitte, in particular, has criticized the introduction in this bill's report, the expression that the principle of taxation is prescribed, and at first glance, it might be concluded that with the bill it is, rather, legalizing the tax process that has been established rather than the established principle. But what we're here to refer to in the bill is, in fact, just the general and accepted rule that property will not be taken out of business unless it has taken place and that in this case... We feel that it is right to gain strength to improve under this rule, this tax operation in the cases of the bill. It is the first article that deals with the closing of this gap, thus preventing government funds from coming from paying taxes and the management counsel to criticize the urgency and speed of the situation. It's gotten, there's a lot to it. But in this case, I would like to say as the spokesman for this case that sometimes just situations arise where the legislatator needs to respond quickly and that we have done so both quickly and effectively in this case. We on the Committee simply believe that this is such government's interests that it is right to go to great lengths and accept this bill before the end of the council. More.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u3	Disk Haraldsdóttir, dignified president. A 71 General Education and Education Committee has received an application for Civil Rights at the 152th Presidency but at the same time. 1.mg. Section 6. Act on Icelandic Civil Rights, No. 100/1952, by the law of the Allied Citizens under the authority of the Foreign Institute and Police Commissioner for the applicant's residence, cr. 2 mg. Six. They're running. Only part of the application data was received and the Committee suggests that candidates for 12 applications will be granted the citizenship right this time. Other applications may suggest that treatment should be continued later when they have already received the necessary data. So there are 12 applicants who are now receiving an Icelandic citizen's right to a law from the General, and I want to use this opportunity to congratulate them warmly on this stage. I'd also like to thank the Subcommittee of the General and Education Committee, the Honourable members of Birgir Þórhallsson and Arndís Kristínar Gunnarsdóttir, and Friðrik Friðriksson, who are very much respected for their work on the Subcommittee. I know that the Subcommittee has been under a lot of stress, and a respectable president has certainly been given a lot of discussions here at the Hall of Congress on the interest of citizen's rights. I hope there's no reproach on the 12 people who could truly be happy to be Icelandic citizens. Those who do not have those applications that were not written to be possible and therefore could not be working on this time. This will be delayed until autumn and will be passed on from the Foreign Institute by applications no later than 31st August. At the same time, the General and Education Committee has received confirmation from the Foreign Institute that none of the people waiting for deportation will be subject to deduction or deportation. At the same time, it has been part of an agreement regarding the end of the council that a whole panel of public and educational committees have now been appointed by a subcommittee. Five people I'm leaving for some difference. I hope there's a good deal of agreement on a change in an arrangement for citizens' rights because I think we're all concerned that the riots that have taken place here at the Senate Hall at the last council won't be repeated. But I, by the way, thank you very much to the nominees for their jobs, and those 12 people I sincerely wish to be happy to become Icelandic citizens. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u4	Madam President. I'd like to agree with what the head of the Middle Party said earlier, to hope that the government will take what is presented here, a proposal for a simple rule to be taken seriously. However, when the case was reviewed earlier, I had not seen a committee view with a paradox. In effect, I have to seize this opportunity to point out what it says, with the permission of a president: the majority, the majority of the committee. So the majority suggest that the proposal be referred to the government and that it be determined by the need for rules to be simplified. If there is doubt in men that this work needs to be done, then it is not a good start if the committee of powerful proselytists and leading executives of the committee is just wondering if there is a head need for orderliness to be simplified. I'm not a very good start on the journey of this council resolution, but I hope that it will come true when the government takes it to heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u5	Madam President. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. It must be that way of rejoicing in view of the last disturbance and the year that the Independence Party is at least to investigate whether there is a reason to simplify a rule and to reduce the length of the show compared to the progress of the council and the accomplishments of this government. I guess you should be grateful that the Independence Party is going to wonder if there's a basis for a simple rule, so I think it's at least Being a positive step, and in view of the suggestion that the card made, it is assumed that the case would be referred to by a government in the sense that it would be assigned to find out about this, provided specific guidelines. Then I expect to support a proposal that the case will be referred to a government, but we will be watching how it's going.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u6	Madam President. This does not often happen during these last days of Congress, when all nerves are swollen, or even a few foreign cases are placed in the arms, agreeing on this. But that is exactly what happens in this case. All of the General and Education Committees agree that it is important that Iceland contributes to the global environmental discussion. The only difference between most and smaller parts is the method of achieving it, the larger part. I think he's unnecessaryly careful. I'm just gonna put it straight, I'd like to analyze everything before they start running. The minority says: By agreeing to this proposal, the government has just assigned to analyze things and initiate them. I think the smaller part is what we should be behind, and I encourage a world of Congress to be a little more bold than most of the top-of-the-art Education Committee because it's the journey we're going to start because we can decide today to do it just a little earlier than with this wait. By referring this to the government, we do not always need courting, taking it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u7	Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. You're right. A senator, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, says that this is an interesting proposal and we agree on it on a public and educational committee. But I think it's fine that we keep that in mind because of the problem. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has been up here very often and critical of the Senate's handling of cases too fast, and not with enough difficulty, so I think it's important to guess that the General and Education Committee had the case in place for just over a day. It was all the time that a well - respected committee was given to discuss this huge case, which agrees that it is very interesting and that it would be more appealing to develop the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u8	T.D. Northern Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Madam President. Well, the waiver motion seems to have been expected to not much, I don't know, but the General Assembly is here to refer to the government, to examine certain murders, to take this matter seriously, to work on this. You guys here from the Ministry class, we'll be watching you. We make sure that this case does not fall asleep in councils. Rather, we have some immediate action that I don't think will be able to tell anyone the long - term when it comes to action in the interests of the environment. There's something that isn't very dominant for me. So, yes, I hear in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u9	Mr. Gunnar, in a bill that the government has repeatedly proposed to change the laws of foreigners, is the only positive change that was actually not a law on foreigners and the laws on foreign rights. Happily, it was brought back a few days ago since, fortunately, because of the change in the law of foreigners, unfortunately, due to the change in the law on the trade rights of foreigners, why it was mixed in there. We all know why it was. It was to try to get through it. It was sugar, a malfunction that was supposed to pass through it. However, it is a change in the law of professional rights of foreigners that enables people who have a permit on the basis of humanitarian views, such as those obtained by refugees from Ukraine to some extent, to allow them to work and be free of the requirement to apply and go through the process of applying for employment permits. After finding a job to encourage everyone to accept this change, it's an opportunity to achieve this good thing that I think we can agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u10	Lost his own, a respectable president, at the time. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. constitutions operate every law bill to get three discussions to be considered governmentally iced. It even hides. in which legal bills need to drop the value of this objective and are not considered to be so extensive that there is a new bill. The aim of an existing bill is to suggest changes necessary because of the Icelandic holiday contract against Britain after its discharge from the EU and the EEA. In this way it will be clearly stated in the legal sense that the closest members of the European Commission who are temporarily working in Iceland will be allowed to apply for residence and employment permits on the basis of family cooperation. The aim of a Change in Parliamentary Report 732 is to ensure that, on the basis of the humanitarian principle, all who are granted a permit to work spontaneously together with a responsor. So it has to be concluded that there is a doubt as to whether the proposed change would fall into the subject and goal of the bill, it is clear that she has not already had three discussions, since it is now considered to be a part of the case and has had only two discussions in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u11	Same Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir, Madam President. I'm going to try to do understandably. Rather, I'm going to switch the change, the adjustment I'm suggesting is on this bill of changing the law on foreign employment rights. She's come to the right place from the bill she used to be where she was. A senator was saying here earlier. Of the fact that this had not been discussed with three discussions, it was wrong in a number of ways. The motion was presented in a discussion of 1st and was there for discussion. Then it was part of a bill that has been repeated in this hall, but it's not the first for discussion, but I'm sorry that there's been some of these very vague and questionable legal arrangements being taken to try to get this change in my proposal that I think all of us here in this council would agree that it's the community of all of us, and most certainly the people who are looking here for improvement that people who have been allowed to live in this country can simply go and find a job. I urge all of you to take advantage of this opportunity to get this good change in the law of foreign employment rights against which it belongs with this bill. There's no question about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u12	Senator of the Southwestern District, Brístís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I'm very sorry to have to break this proposal because it's in the ground very good, because it was in the bill as the highest. The Minister of Justice presented himself here. Maybe we'd have done better with that. But I know that you're right about what you're doing. A senator when she passes it over. This is not legal, for I had planned to try the same thing myself when we dealt with just the business rights of foreigners. It's a question of how to expand this arrangement with regard to the civil rights of foreigners in general, so I'm afraid. All members of Congress are responsible for their conversations with foreigners as soon as we meet in the fall and find real solutions to the important issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u13	Senator of the Reykjavík District of the North, Halldóra Mogensen. President. I'm not on the committee party of the greater part of this case, and we at Porta's party will vote for more of the things that are good. They're calling off all kinds of candy flavors and fruit flavors that were very questionable, so we're supporting it, but we're going to get yellow on the whole bill, and we're facing the need to examine the overall picture. It is guided by a sense of harm. It would have been necessary to map the harmful practices of different nicotine products and to meet various dangers, since the design should be adjusted accordingly. Otherwise, the availability of different nicotine products may become randomized, a non - good landing. But we're seeing it a little in these pieces, approach to the lawsuit. It is the law that covers these products, the need for them to be completer and interconnected in them to ensure that we are not restricting access to products less harmful, while the greater availability of other harmful products is first available. It's just the wrong approach. We're filming this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u14	Cinna, Madam President. This whole bill is filled with beautiful promises for young people and children, but the way was more likely to result in a peculiar hollow mountain backway. The worst part of this bill is the suggestion for taste, the prohibition so - called, and this adjustment makes it a disaster. I, however, draw attention to the logical support of a majority of the welfare committees for throwing out the directive, with the permission of a president: Although the prohibition of the use of flavours may be effective in reducing the consumption of children and young nicotine products, the conclusion is that much more work is needed to identify the effects of such actions and possible ways of carrying such a ban. Thus, in view of the greater part, it is clear that more time is needed to implement such prohibitions and provide them with more solid support. In other words, the ban may not be properly prepared, as presented in this bill. As far as I can see, then, more of the welfare committees are waiting very excitedly for an opportunity to place this strange taste ban later on. So that's what happens with foreigners, the highest bill. Minister of Justice. They come back and forth into the council just to be thrown out over and over again. The restoration will be as contrary to the rules of time as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u15	Is e.g. north of Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Madam President. Four years ago, the report on the report shows that the nominees for military mobilization using Icelandic aircraft were basically quite different. There would really be no surveillance of the Ministry's licences. The system continued to be changed, but unfortunately not for the better or what we can't know, because when we ask in written queries from here on what these matters are now, we're just getting to know that their access rights have grown rapidly. We can't do anything else, we can't get any information beyond that just came up with a number of exceptions. It has become a complete confusion, so we do not know if the United States is providing a green light for human rights violation by bringing weapons into a war zone. I have to say, Madam President, this is not a good feeling not to trust in the Icelandic government because it does not give information about this, and this is why the parole is simply removed that the Icelandic airlines are not carrying weapons. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u16	A respectable president. A small step may be taken for us, but this is a huge step toward increasing justice to a broken - down family and sexual abuse. To say, "Thank you, a vote is about to complete a vote, and the bill is approved. "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u17	A respectable president. Now, this subject, as discussed here, has good promises, and good, positive things and good and blessed things are being pursued, and it certainly has made significant changes in the treatment of the committee, which has been further improved. But there are still laws that are difficult to accept. This is to form rather burdensome for those who intend to sell such products from surveillance, allowing them to do so, and so on. Also, there is something that would need to reconsider more, so I believe, me and my class, that the welfare committee could have done a little better on this subject. We do not have the confidence to support it as it does now, although we certainly support much of the goals it contains.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u18	A respectable president. Although the time has come and everyone wants to finish, I feel that it is all possible to come up here and thank the Committee and the Council for putting this big case to an end, 278 par. 56 in a package, a huge complex issue, but it is important to complete it because it is simply because a flight is as familiar with a part of the international environment, and it is important that we have legislation that can apply to what is happening everywhere around us. We can make it by accepting this bill here. Even though I say, "Thank you for a good job."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u19	Hv. All council members. The work of this council of 152th, the legislature, will soon be postponed. However, I ask senators to be prepared to gather for further meetings when the council has previously received a state accountant's report on the sale of the US stocks in Iceland. As a result of autumn elections, we would not meet here until November 23, the last, and our own election work began until December 1, when research and stocking were completed. By the time they have passed, 70 tops of the board, nine committee cables, and two members of the Senate have become legal. Thus, 81 laws have been passed during the current assembly. In that case, 27 proposals, one committee proposal, and one Senate proposal have been adopted. In total, 29 parties have been approved, and two have been referred to the government. Ministers have answered 249 queries in writing and 30 oral. Then the Ministers responded to 200 queries during unprepared queries. For 11 times, the Ministers have given public reports on a number of subjects, and a special discussion has been 21 of them. At the end of the council, I'd like to thank all members of the council for their cooperation. While it is normal for members of Parliament to differ, the general Council has produced a spirit and a rich cohesion, and I want to thank you for that. In particular, I would like to express my joy with the detailed agreement at the end of the Senate and the progress of the last days. It's wish we could succeed in working in that spirit during the coming council. I give special thanks to vice presidents for their excellent cooperation with the council board, as well as to the presidents of Congress and political parties for a very good cooperation. I thank the secretary - general of the Generals and the staff of the Generals for the practical assistance, much good work, and complete cooperation. I'd like to wish out-of-town people a nice return trip and a happy return home, expecting all of us to see each other right when the Allied council meets again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u20	President. On behalf of us generals, I'd like to present thanks to the president and the vice president for the cooperation of the winter and thank the President for his warm words to us. The staff of the Generals especially deserve to receive special thanks for their essential assistance and extra good work in the past. After the last election, a number of new senators joined the council, and it has been a pleasure to meet new members of the council with new emphasis. The cooperation between the president and the council groups has generally been successful, and the president has been so much as eager to communicate. It is consistent, and it is a promise made. V.E.G. The president is also not afraid to be afraid of long meetings, for he is very informed about the history of Congress, and he does not hold back from sharing his knowledge with anyone who wants to listen. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Many may hold a conservative president, but within him there is a bit of a radical, and he is completely equipped with a kitchen-day discussion that no president has ever been able to do before. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And I think I can claim that the general state is very pleased with this new and sharp approach to this old program. President. During a brief and swift session of Congress, a great deal of weight has been on the down payment of a number of Parliaments in a short period of time. It has put the people under pressure from the Generals, who have worked in the dark to make it possible for us to handle all these matters. A great number of committees have been tested in handling committees, as well as in the conference agencies, and a publishing department, to get them all organized into the chamber. And don't forget the staff who feel this extra pressure without working directly on the Congress themselves, especially the staff of the management and services field, which ensures that in our workplace all the more and less in a row and order, despite this temporary mess that can accompany us to the members of the council at the end. All of them have been outstandingly successful and have carried out their work with great ethic and altruism in spite of pressures, as the staff of the Generals always do. I wish the people of the Generals a happy summer and a pleasant summer vacation, as well as the members of the Parliament. I thank you to the President and to the staff of the Generals and ask the senators to say my words by getting out of their seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]] - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u21	I want to thank you. 3.m. Smoke. N., Halldóra Mogensen, for my warm words and wishes and to thank you. All councilmen for accepting what it says. I especially want to say thank you to the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-16.u22	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the prime minister to postpone Generalist Conference of 152 from June 15, 2022, or later, if necessary, to September 13, 2022. Go to Reykjavík, June 15th, 2022. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by the reference to the earlier approval of the Generals, I now declare that General Assembly 152 is suspended. I'll take this opportunity and thank you. General Parliamentaries for their good cooperation during this council and particularly thank the members of the Parliament for their well-work. I wish everyone in this house a nice trip and a happy summer.
