ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u1	A respectable president. Now they're coming up here a couple of EEA cases on an assembly line. The first concern for financial services may be the best. Yet I wonder in what order of these cases comes in because there is no room in the Senate for confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 59/2001, of the implementation of the Directive on the bioavailability of public bodies and their vehicle applets. Nevertheless, a much younger directive is being introduced here. An order to establish the availability of all web sites was adopted in February 2021 and was to be delivered in January. How is it that this directive was issued by the Government Constitution while this Department of Economic Affairs is being reviewed only three months after it is taken care of by the EEA? What causes this induction to take priority over the implementation of a directive involving the vital rights of disabled persons, in particular blind people, and visually impaired? Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland has asked for the position of this case, but the minister has not yet received an answer. I ask myself, is everything that comes first with this government? Is it about the disabled and the blind some additional issue that doesn't need to be handled and led to a decree, even though that should have taken place long ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u2	Madam President. Granted, it is reasonable to consider where the matter is at the same time. A senator asks about. I don't know what to say here on a rhythm basis, but I can assure you what to do. A senator's failure to do so is not because that matter is irrelevant. The figures have been raised by council proposals that are ready and able to measure here at the council and come to the committee. That's why I'm measuring for a number of people today, and it also reflects my Constitution, where there is considerable interpretation proposals that most people turn to financial services because we're simply in debt when it comes to the induction and induction halls, which are sometimes spoken of, is the largest thing when it comes to financial services. That's why there are so many things here, all very technical but with varying significance here in Iceland, and important that the rules are consistent. Let me ask you a question. A senator asks about and gets them information to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u3	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I sincerely hope that those who are blind, visually impaired, or in some way disabled are not made backward, and their cases are less planned than business issues. I think those people who want to know what to do, whether the directive for them works, and that's where I own, for example. for blindness and impaired vision, it is no doubt considered as important and even more important than the financial directives that are now developing an assembly. I also don't think it would have been a problem to have this directive with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u4	Madam President. A direct inquiry has been made to me on the basis of the decision the senator mentioned in a previous answer, which will be answered in all the days ahead. Council proposals are expected, however. A senator asked about, will be submitted to the coming fall council with a bill for induction. Sometimes it is also true that Congress laws arise because they hang out with the introduction bill. It doesn't mean much to complete a controlled warning if the Ministry's Committee doesn't include what's actually going to be discussed in the Senate arrangement and granting the right to citizens. In this case, a senator asks about the website of public bodies and their vehicles applets. So it appears in the autumn Summit, along with the bill that introduces these rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u5	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. As noted by the minister, the purpose of this case, as stated here, is by the permission of the president, to explain, in particular, principles that have been vaguely understood, which are now something that to many people consider to be a fairly common situation in the process of induction. Let us, though, now leave the matter at hand. It also says, by permission of the President: The directive's implementation is not considered to be a major impact in this country, but it is part of promoting the legislation of financial companies to conform to that in other parts of the European Economic Area. And it goes: It is not expected that there is a parental or intermediate consent in the European Economic Areas (EEC) with regard to any of the enterprises employed here. This is one of the elements of this induction. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to 2 g. the article on the subject, especially the e-g- team. The E team says, with president's permission: a financial policy shall have no gender share. The g team says, with president's permission: the management of financial companies should have a wide range of backgrounds. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is a diagnosis in the market financial companies, whether it is the fact that financial policy is not sex shareless, as the situation is today. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is a diagnosis of whether financial executives have a wide range of backgrounds, such as the situation today or if financial companies are likely to have to respond to this induction in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u6	Madam President. It is quite clear in this matter, as it is clear to some others, that there are limited effects of the induction, sometimes so that it may happen later, and then there are rules of play and answers, and sometimes it just doesn't apply and won't try it here. However, this call for all kinds of work, it is clear to me that there is a lot to work on that rules here are completely comparable to those in the EEA area. These are the factors. A senator may mention and consider reviewing them to the Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the treatment of a bill. The goal for bank management to be diverse is that it is only good, which is explained by more than sexual indifference. But there is also the possibility that the financial system in Iceland is so general, when it comes to governments and such, not the most diverse area of society. But if there are any arrangements to be taken to introduce this, there is something that can be considered to be considered in the Foreign Affairs Committee. For example, this induction is not a requirement for sexuality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u7	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Here in chapter 3 of the report, under the review of Law Change and the possible impact of this country, the potential impact of existing auto-improvement policies is implemented. It says, by permission of the president: There is now a 2% and a 3% system risk increase and a combined 5% share, but this conversation cannot be exceeded without the EFTA agreement. Does this mean, then, that this puts limits on the caution devices that the bat has under its control? Based on this text as it is available here, the Navy appears to be at the highest limit in terms of personal funds without the approval of the EFTA Treaty. Has it been evaluated? In chapter 4 of this discussion, I see no consultation with the Secret Bank specified. However, this does not rule out the fact that it happened. But I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to see if it is the correct understanding of this text that this has come to the top permit limit for the conversation of these features of automates.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u8	Madam President. The secret bank determines the share of interest items other than protection supplies. There is a difference between the basic financial requirement and the requirement for self-imbursement that if a financial enterprise fails to meet basic financial requirements, it can be reassigned to the job permit or to other important interventions, but if it fails to meet the financial requirements, it will only impair the possibility of paying out interest and bonuses. But the directive assumes that the government can report financial funds on its own, and it is its own money that the government considers desirable to be more than what it is obliged to do. Such announcements are not binding, but financial companies are likely to be more often than not to choose to accept them. There is not a specific limit of the reported actual financial burden. This does not affect today's sources materially, as I understand the case. But again, if anything is unclear as to whether or not they're pressing the front desk by means of this induction, I assume there's something that's going to happen in the treatment of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u9	Madam President. Thank you so much. I wanted to have a few words. It's often that all EU rules roll here through the council without anyone looking at what they're doing. It is important to realize that there are often reasons behind the regulations we are receiving here. It's like the highest. A minister put it up with a small amount of financial regulations that come here, and this speculative Regulation puts a frame around the activities of a large holding partner. The Senate proposal points out that this may not have an enormous impact in Iceland, but it is important that we realize that there are rules around this type of activity. I don't think most Icelanders have heard of becoming a holding society until it began to date in 2007 and 2008, and then in the years following a crash, there were all but one set of tenures in the news. The banks had them in their drawers, and they just had some letters by name in the accounting office, and then there was only a number behind them. This is popular because it is often used to sharpen certain investments and if you are going to make some investments, wanting to limit responsibility and limit tax effects, and some of the other things it pays to create real estate companies around it. I think we've learned from what happened around the collapse that it pays to have good rules around it. As I mentioned earlier, it's particularly thought of big ownership companies. I find, however, very interesting the requirements for a large holding partner, and to me this is something that we could also look to about just a large financial enterprise. There are demands that financial policy be made without gender. It's something that's now talked about, the business in financial companies, that they'd better be sexless. It also stipulates the responsibility of financial companies and their mother's partner to ensure that the management and executive authority's authority and authority's authority are removed from these people if they do not meet the qualifications. I've heard a lot of stories about people who have been assigned to governments or even executive positions often don't meet the appropriate conditions. If we think about it, for example. Our pension fund, which is large holdings; do we not want those in it to be well qualified for it, to have good knowledge, and to have a wide variety of backgrounds? Yes, I would think it was a thing that would benefit us well and something we should look at how we can do better. Eventually, there is a wide variety of backgrounds. It's a bit like that when you look at the various financial and other governments, they often have the same background that comes over and over again. It can be good if you're just investing, for example. In real estate, having someone with a real estate background. But if you are investing in different things, it is very good to have this wide background because of investing in real estate or investments, e.g. Technologies, as we shall discuss in another good EU principle that arrives later today, need a whole different background. So it is important that we listen and hear what is really happening here. Perhaps that does not necessarily apply to us, since we do not have too many traditions that have so much or that are so large. This does not mean that we can't take the good things that come to us, and has clearly proved to be in the European Union that there are points they've come across in their part of the following 2008, that we can't use it as ideas and rules to set up for smaller communities here at home. Besides, we must not forget that we have become part of a European financial market which means that if we don't have rules for such large holdings, we could become a fanciful of such societies as they could get away with doing things that they couldn't get away with doing elsewhere in Europe. We may have access to just one more bill later this afternoon, not to the EU this time, since Iceland is becoming a villain when it comes to fishing in seawater, where environmental policies are too strict in Norway and elsewhere. As a result, we see a variety of financial resources coming from outside to invest here while it is still permitted. It's exactly the same thing here, we need to have the rules, we can learn from these rules, and we need to make sure that we don't become a villain when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u10	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his passage. In his case, I felt that there were some interesting things to be said. I'd like to kill here on a few things. Hv. A senator speaks of the rules we're talking about bringing in here as a means of sharpening the activities of these financial institutions, which are generally linked. We know, living and moving here, that these specialized tenures are extremely beautiful, and often in the habit of habitually woven spider webs designed to play a completely different role than that of informing the public of their real status. It applies not only to financial assets but also to others. Close to this point is the possession of marine export companies in Icelandic employment, which may suggest that the tissue that was woven there is somehow public information but that, in the same way, an art form is hidden within the system that is out of the reach of specialized persons to collect it. Then the government's protection is well kept there, so we can't find out. I wanted to ask, because there are situations that are hard to imagine being recognized in the European Union - and perhaps also in connection with the bank sale now and the secrecy that still exist about who was invited to join: separately. A senator imagined that this specific form will affect transparency in these financial institutions? Or do we have to wait for others to provide that information to the general and official system? Is this good enough until then, in addition to another positive act of this type?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u11	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This type helps to some extent. It's like it says: ▪... second, that organization does not interfere with monitoring and third, that the owners of the active holding segments, executives and managers are eligible. It does not always say that they should be known who they are. In fact, it's improved by the fact that we had to register the real owners of our partners, something that put us on a gray list at the time. It's made it a little better. However, the fact that shareholders are not available is something that, of course, makes it more difficult to find the location of the items in this hereditary network's spider web. It is also well - known that one of the good ways to hide things is to have inheritance societies scattered around the world. It is your hope in part to lead like these and others similar to that that within the EEA, it will become harder to hide such things from them. Yes, step in the right direction, but maybe not as big a step as we would like to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u12	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his answers. Yeah, not as big a step as we'd like to see. Perhaps this type does not include a major step because Europe's countries, which have real access to building these types, do not deal with this problem from public interests, or some other word would probably be used by special interests. It would have been interesting to see if Iceland's interests had been promoted. But I'd like to, in the second, ask him why. A senator must consider the position of our pensions inside all of this. They are another bit of a specialized phenomenon and their enormous strength in Icelandic employment, in general, and in major companies, as well as in financial markets. There's some other rules about this pension fund, but it's not always that transparency is more or anything like that. I would be interested to hear the thought. A senator, when discussing financial ownership markets in general and direct shareholders, where the pension funds come in, and how we can ensure that, when we are trying to fix our system to the best in Europe, harmonize it with that they fall into it. We have so many examples of this. We watch, for example. According to the bank's sale, they have reached either side of the table, they have become even stronger than they once did in a business that some would have thought was not really their nuclear activity. So while we're adapting to this co-European system for the European Economic Area, do we always have these releases that are our pension fund when we're talking about financial market activities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u13	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a question about a pension fund. They're, in fact, big ownership companies. The difference is, the money pays us a pension. I believe that the range of pension funds that you need is very poor and have lived abroad and paid in a pension fund there, how it works -- that's where you need a pension fund and all the funds you can invest in giving up exactly what all the costs are, what kind of money is taken when you buy yourself, when you sell, if you switch from one investment to another, all of this is black to white that helps you to choose what you want to invest. It's a totally black box in Iceland. Another important thing is to keep in mind when it comes to the pensions. While they were in the currency business, they could basically just invest here in Iceland. It made it possible that the pension fund is all hands in Iceland's economy. It's a very special thing and something very difficult to wind off. We heard the highest. Secretary of finance talks about the last week how difficult it would be to get back to allow them to own a more widely distributed library. We see very little what's going on in there, what they're investing in, why? What's their investment policy? All of this is determined by a small number of stakeholders in the management of these pension funds, and there is far too little transparency in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u14	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to, in view of what's happened. A candidate has worked a considerable deal in the international environment of humanitarian affairs, and many of such projects are at the site of enjoying considerable support from various types of giant companies, asking in context whether there is a discouraging effect on the flow of support and support from larger companies and institutions and holding companies, as discussed here and so forth, whether in the streets. A senator believes that there will be an additional complication of growing order in the financial environment or that it is of little importance to support humanitarian acts, as I know it. A senator has worked abroad. Because I think if we're just looking in Iceland and this economy we have, it's like all the additional cost on a job life in one way or another that reduces the ability and potential desire to control money for good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u15	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. Fortunately, investors, and then I'm talking about public investors investing in large funds, investment funds, and even pension funds, are starting to set standards for what they're investing in giving community responsibility. We see that more and more things happen, that there will be funds and businesses and other things that will not only look at money but also watch what they can do in social life. The problem is that our legislation sometimes restricts our companies and others. Objects have e.g. The sole purpose of making a profit for its shareholders. Is it making a lot of money if your partner makes a contribution to charity? In fact, if the amount of money is too high in the opinion of any shareholder and director of large companies, it can be done. This is something that is growing by creating a specific type of partner, societally responsible societies. Unfortunately, they still do not exist in Iceland, but they have existed in Britain, the United States, and other countries where it is also the role of improving our community, and we may be able to see more of it. I know that there are companies, there are institutions and investors who are doing a good job, and that should exactly be part of an investment policy each one's thinking about society, thinking about the environment. So-called ESG funds have grown very recently, but they look around and around.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u16	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think that when we have only under the surface, most companies - except, of course, the black sheep that are, whether you look at a group of individuals or a company or what part of the community it is, in each group - if we just look back at the microorganism system in Iceland, business is a more successful social responsibility. You can see, no matter whether there's some soccer trip in the country or on a giant project like the telethon we saw on TV last Sunday, that in one way or another, it's all driven by the support of companies and members of society like this to his side. It was contrary to legislation at a recent assembly that contributes to this, but I think we should always keep in mind trying to minimize unnecessary, non-relevant regulations. We'll see, for example. That several high priestess of the land around the church have been sweaty about registering the church choir's real owners. It doesn't bring back anything. It's right in front of us. Those who seek evil will not let such things stop them. But I think we should keep all the rules so that the space to do good is the most important thing for people and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u17	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the second answer. I have to agree with what. Senator. It's been really nice to see it, especially these past few weeks, that business really helps when it comes to relief work and to see that we as a community can do good things. Being able to get a discount from taxes for doing social things is something that is much more open, for example. ... U.S.A. than here. Although it has been opened here, it still has limits. I also wholeheartedly agree that we need to make sure that the work of order is not too much. It's a little funny with the church slippers and the houses that all in one file needed real owners, that the requirement never came from the outside. The requirement was that the only way to obtain a social security number in order to open a bank account was to register these churches and parts in a company file. It was a requirement for a company record to be set up. The tax was simply not ready to have two separate computer systems, one to keep up with these communities, churches' houses, etc., which are not really companies, and the other business. There was never a requirement for the communities and from abroad. It was only because the computer said no to the IRS.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u18	Madam President. I'm sure the one sitting in the President's chair right now can join me when I say that we will discuss foreign affairs all too seldom here in the hall, let alone discussing EEA matters. We seldom do that, considering how important it is to the development of society and the legal environment in this country. This is a proposal for a hearing that is about the financial system in Iceland and the first thing that beats you in such a way when they come to us is that Iceland is sometimes just one size too small for this principle that we're getting into ourselves. We receive these directives from Europe, often tasteful of good ideas, which would be fun to implement, but because Europe puts all the sizes against a much larger community than we live in, most of these are available in Iceland. So I wondered, " Should I start to look at these directives, although they may not all be binding on national rights, as some sort of incentive for us to take things for a relative size limit? ' So for fun, I looked up the Icelandic pension fund at the beginning of my year for 6,550 billion possessions. Similarly, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures contained 4,719 billion possessions. This total total capacity is over 11,000 billion, three times the national production of Iceland in one year. Although these financial institutions do not even own 100 billion euros in their balance accounts, they have three times the national production of Iceland and therefore have a very high value in the Icelandic context. Hence, this suggestion is worthy of our consideration and attention, as we have considered. I'll stop, for example. to the E-section 2 of the report on the absence of sex share of the worksheet policy for financial enterprises. First, I wondered, " Is my gender really the right word in this context because in order to correct the discrepancies in a labour market, the policy should not be neutral in sex, but needs to be taken into account the gender defect in the labour market? ' She needs, as I think the International Assembly has, for example. It is called when the relationship is used for reform in legislation, sexual sensitivity. She needs to be sensitive to the sexual aggression that needs to be corrected. We're starting to know something in this country after we like it. introduced a equally paid witness in the law. What, then, did it become evident? It may not be enough to have just a work policy to equalize the pay between people who have a comparable job, to make sure that one hair in the company is equal, but needs to examine the entire structure. This is of particular importance in the financial sector in Iceland, apart from the fact that financial and insurance operations, the sector in which the uncorrected pay difference between the sexes is greatest in Iceland, is also an article in which men control. It's been very difficult to correct them in the Icelandic financial system. The core has, for example. Each year, the sexes'positions in the financial system, published a series of articles on which people control our money, and the latest 2021 numbers were that the Icelandic financial executives were 83 men and 11 women. This is about unchanged during the eight years that the nucleus has been considering. One of the tools we have to reverse these errors is e.g. Rules set here for over a decade in terms of the percentage of genders in corporate management because at least the people who made that case at their time did so. Based on the evidence that the tops would be equal, it would somehow be secreted through the companies and affect their activities. But what happened? In 2010, when a bill on a gender ratio in corporate and institutions was submitted and accepted, women were 19.5% of the government in Iceland. When the 2013 Law was fully valid, women were 30.5% of the rulers. Last year, when the law had been fully validated for eight years, the proportion of women had increased only to 34.1% from that 30.5% at the time of law. This happens at the speed of the snail, so we must consider how it is possible to speed it up. Then I'd like to review a matter of Congress. paritaprevir Some years ago, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir moved to this hall, where she specifically pointed out that there is no law against not complying with laws on the sex ratio in corporate governments. It is natural to be completely confused with what is e.g. In Norway, where Iceland took the role model for these laws back then, the result has been much more in Norway. You see, Madam President, there are times when laws need to be followed, and in the case of an enterprise, daylight is needed. That was the suggestion. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir brought in on the above bill, she was watching partnerships especially, if I remember correctly. She suggested that they simply do so if they failed to comply with the rules of sexuality so that they would find them on the purse if they did not obey the law. I think that would be a rather mild way of managing according to a number of pressure warrants set up in Iceland's law to fine a company if they don't follow the law. I see my time is running out, but I'd like to mention Section 2 of the report that I find particularly interesting and that the financial executives have a wide range of background. The evidences may scare us about sexgencies, that we have failed to follow the rules as I have considered, but it would be overly exciting if we somehow got the procreation in our country reflected the diversity that is so much better in society than it does today, not just about sex and age, which we may be more accustomed to discussing, but from origin and disability, and what it is that may involve people other than sex and age. More important, in financial institutions, it has so much to say how society develops in its own investments. We don't need to recall, Madam President. what happened in the years before the collapse of the banks when all too single bisenes destroyed everything. How useful the variety would have been!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u19	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for implementing this Regulation from the EEA. She might have come a little earlier, not that I know exactly how old she is from the EEA itself. As says in a bill with a bill that will follow this Regulation, a bill to legalize financial and economic funds, says, by permission of the president: It was found that the promise of a set-of-the-art commitment could not always be fulfilled and that diplomas would stay and, in many cases, resulted in large solutions from investors. The regulations of this Regulation aim to prevent this from repeating itself. Many put their money in just the same way - often for short - term financial gain, i.e. to keep the money for a short time, especially because these funds were thought to be very safe. Sadly, as we saw in October 2008, this was not as safe as they thought, except for those people who heard that things may not be going exactly the right way and could be solved during the days and weeks before everything collapsed. Money markets work to provide short - term financial, legal, and government funding. In other words, they are buying bonds and usually try to buy investments in things called secure investments, where the risk is low. The result is that the yield is not very high, but at least it is higher. But to keep the money under the pillow except when it comes collapse. This Regulation is aimed at ensuring more financial stability and improving the protection of those investing in such funds. In particular, if there is a lot of stress on markets, as it happened in October 2008, it is not that those who last heard of a collapse and want to take their money out of this money market lost more than those who learned to know through friends and family that there might be something about to happen. In order to ensure all of this, however, the sale of the funds is always enough to be solved - or insinuated, as it is called, the release of money from the fund - and the operation of rules in the European Union on how to do this. Implementation of this particular Regulation allows the European Commission to implement and market their funds for landstones in the European Economic Areas and vice versa, as well as to allow European funds markets to launch such funds on land. This also opens the door to access more money markets than has been possible so far, perhaps on other growths and other possible items. At the same time, to ensure that there is more balance and security in this or, in other words, there are rules to make sure that what happened 14 years ago in Iceland is not something that will happen as easily as it happened then. Today, it was distributed here at a Senate bill to legalize funds for the establishment of these regulations and terms. It's a huge piece of paper that the Ministry has to do to get this kind of EEA thing through. It's a pleasure to see that the law applies, i.e. has come out as well. It is hoped that this rule of order and the possibility of establishing administrative fines and other matters will be put aside if these rules are not followed. It is my hope that both the bill and the Regulation will be treated quickly at the council because this is certainly a penalties and an increasing consumer protection to discuss with people who often only want to find a safe place for their money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this story. I believe it is important that this directive be fulfilled and that we discuss this at the council. On the other hand, this is actually the foundation for financial services or one component of financial services. Then I wondered about the bank sale now at the Bank of Iceland, which we've been working on, in view of the opinion that banking market is important. We want the state to remain in tight investments in at least One bank, and we can picture the Lands Bank. But when it comes to the competition of financial markets, the holding alone is not the most important thing. The competition for financial market consumers is of utmost importance, and we can see that despite these three banks, despite the fact that the pension fund, and perhaps also because the pension fund has come in, there is competition in the bank market and financial markets, there is security, as well, not directly to increase these detriments, despite changes in property. Actually, the possession of the government is moving on to a large part of the social ownership of the pension fund, which is good, and we are more fortunately trusted in the pension fund to carry these important assets. However, competition in financial markets is not necessarily a botanist, it would be desirable to be all - eyed. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how he sees it possible to make personal decisions in spite of important directives and actions from the European Union, how we ourselves can promote and promote competition at home, within our financial markets, on this competitive show, because if we increase the competition for financial markets it will be of benefit to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u21	Madam President. A competition is in general and in general designed to improve consumer status, and in this way it can be said that it will interfere with and with changing the ownership of banks in which the government, the state, continues to have the highest financial resources in Iceland in OECD. There's a situation I'd like to see change pretty fast, and that's why we're taking those steps, it's unnatural to be in that position for a long time. I believe, however, that the traditional financial and banking functions as we know them will undergo significant changes over the next few years and decades. Also important is new technology and innovation, and I think it will contribute to a greater variety of shapes and not just the traditional. This also requires that the financial institutions we have here understand and move and act accordingly in order to have a chance to survive in that environment and that competition. In that sense, there is also evidence that the State is not to own a bank. Rather, it is more likely that the private sector will find out the best way to deal with such competition. In view of this, you may be able to look at the faces of the changes, and whether they are temporary or permanent, I dare not say, i.e. when it comes to financial activity from outside our landstones and how we have become involved in the use of technology and foreign companies in some financial transport, apart from the burning chains, whether they have come to be or whether they are some distant period. So I think financial market competition is going to get bigger than the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u22	President. We agree absolutely with the change in holding of banks and that we would rather take possession of banks from the government to the general market. That's what's good, and we're here for as long as we keep at least One intangible investment in one of the banks. The step you are taking is correct, although what we have said may always be repeated, and there may be some doubts about what is being done today. It will just be reviewed and the law changed, as Prime Minister came in earlier. If there is any reason to provide information, increase transparency in the process, then the Senate must come up with it and fix it, if there is any authority to promote transparency. It is a key element to building trust in a work that is needed, that the public is taking on the important means of distributing possession on banks. But that doesn't change the fact that this bank dealer is not some big step in getting possession of the banks from the state into a general investor, since we are largely hiding this pension fund, which we trust better enough to handle it. But will the competition greatly increase? It will increase, I agree with the Minister on that. But will it increase so much that we can see further options for consumers who borrow here, whether it is mortgage or other loans, small companies, mediums or individuals and families? No, we're not necessarily going to do that. We see that the United Nations has repeatedly pointed out that there is no increased competition for financial services at home. We're here to the point where we can't resolve the answers here, me and the highest. Minister, the large elephant in this porcelain shop is, of course, the currency. We can't get a foreign investment here, a foreign bank, unless we change currency. [[The president calls.]] This has even been true. The bank manager of Deutsche Bank told me when banks have been sold here. The currency is the big obstacle, and while consumers have to pay the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u23	Madam President. When it comes to this phase of sale at the Bank of Iceland, no one, no secretary or members of the government, has been able to publish what is thought to be necessary to increase transparency, and it is quite clear what was going on there. Similarly, the head of the Independence Party has made a clear point of wanting this information to be published, but it is necessary to determine whether or not it is permitted. If it's not permitted, it's our job here to do something about it, if we want to change that position. To my mind, it is clear that we are in the fullest position to contribute to the increase in competition in this market, even though it is small. When it comes to possession, we are now looking at a pension fund, as well as on investing in the bank, and there are also very different opinions about whether it works out well with foreign investors or not, which I personally consider to be a personal matter. However, some feel very sorry that all of this is to be done by members of the local community, so in such a decision, it is certainly impossible to accept an opinion or vision from everyone. But the basic point is that this bank has been sold for many years, and at last we have come to do so in step two, and it has been extremely successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u24	Madam President. Actually, I'm gonna have to continue this conversation with the highest level. Minister and minister. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, because it's natural nothing as simple as the highest. A minister says, in our small community, it is so easy to achieve an acceptable rivalry in many sectors, and especially in the banking system. On this, the Contestance Control has, for example. Point, as just happened. However, it is very important to do so. Prior to today, the prime minister has declared that there will be no guarantee that we will not get everything on the table and that we will not have all the information we need so that we have all the doubt that everything here has taken place as best planned, we will simply be changed by the law. It is very important for us who are suspicious of this fact to receive such a declaration from the government gate. Then let us assume that there is more in the council because this is what we need to do. However, as just now, it is incredibly important that we get into the Icelandic banking system of great long - term investments from the outside. To be honest, I'm surprised to be the highest. A minister should have been questioning everyone's opinion. It may not be everyone's opinion, but I haven't heard another view in a very long time from a large percentage of people. Of course, what is unfortunate and evil about this sale now, apart from the fact that it is not all about how it was being carried out, is that it would have been better in many ways to sell this bank in the position that we were with Euro. This would have made it more likely that foreign workers, large banks, would have shown interest in coming in here and investing. This is one reason why some executives today find it unreasonable to say that it is premature and wrong to be discussing the European Union, except that there are others now stumbling them away because there is no taste of a war in the world and forget that every country near us is revising its position on international cooperation on that matter. Of course, peaceful solutions, democracy, human rights, and equality are far more powerful weapons in combating war than ever. Sweden and Finns are now discussing whether to expand their cooperation and to add the European Union ANTO, and they seem to be who of course. Danes contribute national fees for summer so that they participate in the security activities of the European Union, which they have not been involved in. Switzerland has abandoned its neutral stand, and Germany has made a fundamental change in its course. So now that we're dealing with the EEA, I think it's very appropriate that we get more out of this partnership than it is right now. You're right next door. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's statement that the induction here does not always apply to Icelandic society, and we are, of course, relatively smaller unity than most of these countries. So, of course, we're saying that the more painful it is is that we have this limited access to the adjustment we have through the EEA Convention. We've been trying to support interests, but that's just not enough. It would be better for us to be just there at the table and then be able to influence directly when ideas are born and become primes and laws. As we know, it is very common for a state to work together when they also have interests, so I am not worried that it would make sense to us. But the reason why I came here is because this case is relatively technical and can be really doubt that we're dealing with it if we didn't get it through the EEA Convention because we're short-handed, not just here at the council, but we don't have a lot of experts working on our snow. There's just a lot of things we're ensuing through the EEA Convention which has been an amazing justice for the people of the country and enough to name work rights, social affairs, human rights, personal protection and some other things that are not sure we would have had a ball to start or think from scratch to bottom. But this applies not only to individuals but also to the core of the European Union's thinking in the case of jobs, and especially to financial companies, because, as the highest level, it is. A minister said, the objective of the bill is to make financial systems attractive for SMEs and ensure that SMEs live in a more favorable setting. There she meets the whole point of her head because if we look at the EU ideology when they put the bills on or when they're molding companies and jobs, they'll use them, in Icelandic translation, the slogan: Think small first. The Regulation is thought about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are based on European standards of a 50-man enterprise and up to 500 companies, relatively large here on the country but still. If a leak test shows that this is useful to these companies, they are not afraid to shoot them forward and big companies will certainly be able to enjoy themselves as well, or be able to enjoy them at least I find it so peculiar that in this 500 million coalition, or less, this is the thought at the same time that I think, the person has been involved here for five years, like the bills and ideas that are built from the foundation here for our Icelandic careers are kind of upside down, that they are tailored around the largest companies, and then some other way they get to die inside of this. It is only enough to mention the seabed in a relationship where the greatest time always comes in the five biggest or ten largest, or what people want to use. Of course, we will support this bill in the United States, and it is our view that it is important, and especially for some Icelandic financial companies who also want to be in international business. International business is the key to our own position, to keep them as large as possible, and therefore we need to live with these small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u25	Madam President. I couldn't resist first. A senator mentioned me in his speech, in fact, over two words that fell here earlier today, but this has to do with naturality because it is important to me that the Icelandic government and the legislature authorities are a little more involved when it comes to the introduction of European rules. Here we do not have the oldest rules in the collection; this is the Council and Council Regulation from 2019 C.E. But because the financial system rules not only for financial systems but for society, it is important that the European Union in the meantime accepts a green Community contract. It has been agreed that the main investments of the next few years and decades should not only be in the interest of these small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is the most efficient way to get the economy going at speed, but also in the interest of green transitions, not only because it can be found in the new world and in the growing rods over the years, but because we need it as a community. That is why I wonder, " How can we put this into our hands? ' How about, for example. can be considered in this type of company how to gain financial support on the market? Is it not possible for us to make a new trip, perhaps trying to introduce something about our green investment on the same journey, so that we are not running those steps when that type finally comes along after the pipes? Let us take a firm stand for something that comes to us anyway and is something we want to do anyway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u26	Madam President. Yes, I think we should, of course, always take advantage of all the resources we can to be premeditated and try to see what lies ahead. But patience makes us difficult, and we feel it, since we are fifteen times smaller than Norway, how much less we have the opportunity to care for our interests in the induction business. I think we'd be in a better position if we were in there and we came in sooner. You're absolutely right. A senator with regard to the green Community covenant and the green transitions needed. I liked the news that a new United Nations report said that if the top is not cleared over the next three years, it's just over. Of course, warnings have often come, but I think that's a real reason to worry about what's happening. Everything needs to be important. But the good news is, of course, that the European Union seems to be taking such the most clear position in this struggle and, of course, a currency and peace and security, I think that the climate may be the most important reason for us to take the step in there and be just proud participants and do what we can with experience, with knowledge and also for enjoying ourselves from the other direction. Yeah, of course, we're supposed to be precocious and see what's going to come in, but I think it'd be best if we were out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u27	Madam President. Yes, it is a measure of patience, but there are opportunities in it too. We're a bigger community in various ways. That's why I'd like to talk to you about another European principle called the Foreign Taxonoy, which I think is developing as a frame, that's, that's, that's, you know, a line to pay for a sustainable investment and it's a lot and a big rule that's coming to us from Brussels, and that's all about what a financial investment can be classified as a sustainable investment so that we have it completely as a joint investment environment what's green investment and what it isn't. True, the European Union was lost only when it accepted that natural resources were grouped under the surface of natural gas so that the European Union is probably doing the best that is being done in the great area is far from perfect. But as for this frame, it's been arranged to go to Iceland since before he was even approved. That's why I was a little surprised by the way I slept at the Ministry of finance. I think I've asked the local minister first if it's not right to start skiing, e.g. The pension fund to release property in the oil industry, only in the worst, and came to the empty cabin at the Minister's office then. Then I've asked a regular minister who came after the Minister if there's anything going on, and there's nothing going on down from the Ministry. Yet, this directive is always on its way to us and Iceland's financial sector is ready. He's already evaluated and analyzed, and he's brought in lawyers and sustainable experts who are ready to do this. But they need to take the initiative from the government so that Iceland is not a legal submerge for other European countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yes, it might change with a European Union society, but the pants could also be worn out right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u28	Madam President. Yes, of course we can pull our pants off and do much better. So I'm saying a good word to the government in some way, we've been more effective in fixing this emigrant hall, but we need to do better than that. Once we are through with it, we may be more active. It's not supposed to have to set the rules on everything and, fortunately, only rules are about 1% of what we do. There is something else that we have agreed on, and pension funds and banks and financial institutions should long ago have their own rules on these moral standards. But you're right about what you're doing. A senator to the European Union is less than a heavenly one. But it is also not a burning house or hell, as is sometimes referred to here in the hall, and we need to discuss it with greater respect because, despite all of this, it is leading to so many areas that matter to us. You're right about what you're doing. Similarly, a senator does not necessarily have to be a restraint; he can make us quicker, as it were. A senator said, but sometimes you can be too quick if you're small and I'm pointing, for example. That we are number 1 in the world when it comes to the widespread use of individuals, but we are number 67 when it comes to Internet security. There are now many kinds of things, good and bad. But let us make good use of what we are in spite of a society that is relatively equal, relatively well - educated, and relatively largely all possible. But we too could learn relatively much from others.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u29	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his part, the Logi of this discussion, Einarsson's son, are on fire. Not to be surprised, however, that this discussion and his comments were focused on how we might have more access to the rules we are taking from the European Union. I can agree with much of what the senator said about it. There are some very good and practical things that have come to us from the European Union. I spent a long time working in the Ministry myself, and most of the time, a man felt that there was a particular work there to be done preparing legislatures that we simply cannot work in our small country with our little government. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is about what he said about how small we are, how small we really are, and therefore, in this large context, we are able to take up rules from a much bigger battery. The Senator says we can be more comfortable if we sit at meetings in there and maybe be more active. I would like to ask the senator if he believes that it would really change something in terms of access to these rules and molding these rules that we sit at the table compared with the amount of seats we would actually get on this huge table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u30	Mr. President. Yes, actually, I think we might have a powerful influence. Of course, we know how things work there; they are not pressured against in some vote, where least possible more talk is given but often takes long because people try to agree on something that everyone can accept. In fact, the European Union has a fondness for amazing little nations in northern or eastern regions, so this has often been taken into account. They often work together. I support the EEA deal, and it's good and it was an incredibly important step for us, and we can certainly have more influence within it. Then, too, we need to put forth much more effort to do so. The Norwegians have 10 in their field of duty out there to monitor and influence them at previous levels instead of always waiting and trying to get some extra leave. I know there are conflicting opinions about, like... Our place in NATO. I believe our participation in NATO enables us to be an armyless nation, and I am grateful for that, but I do not brag about it. We're so lucky, we have a strong ally who's gonna take care of these parts of defense. But I think our participation in the European Union could just give us more security and better quality of life in other areas. It's naturally incredibly long, in effect, to say: Yes, I think we're going to have a considerable effect in there, more than 370,000 souls say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u31	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his answer, even though I don't feel that he has answered the question as thoroughly as I would have asked and applied the psalms I hold between us that would require more time than the two minutes we have in those answers, i.e. I am not speaking of involvement in the European Union as some kind of military alliance, which it is now trying to take responsibility for being. But that is a very long matter, so I'm going to let it lie between parts of it for now. However, he answered a different question that I had about how the senator's attitude would be influenced by our taking part in more areas than the EEA Convention will take into consideration foreign affairs and other factors. There we probably disagree about many things because I don't think the European Union does good things at all when it comes to these matters. We criticize the president of the United States for his intention of building walls, but we do so ourselves, without even being ashamed of us for a moment. I'm talking about the European Union, ironic to each other. I liked the way the senator mentioned that the small state and the little man might have an effect by having a special situation, and sometimes people listen especially when they do. Then I recall the comments of my professor from Belgium who mentioned that although Iceland is a small country, it is almost beyond question that when it comes to fishing, we are a great empire. It is difficult to guess in the light of history that this tiny little island in the middle of the country played a major role in simply molding all national rights towards seafood and other conditions, it will not be taken away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u32	I may have been vague earlier, I was not saying that the EU was or should be a military alliance. There are many ways to pursue peace without setting up long - range rockets. I think a soft approach to peace is much wiser. Of course, there are a number of ways that we have to offer, which is our primary attention to foreign affairs, which is equal, peace, human rights, humanity. It seems to me that this may be the areas in which the European Union is trying to deepen. It is true that there are things in the European Union and in the European Union that are not very pleasant, far-fetched in the relationship in particular. I think it is wise, however, to try somehow to work with pressure and other such things to get them into a better path than to keep them outside. I think it's better. But the EU can no doubt do better than that. Many small countries that have entered the relationship or smaller countries have shown by their separate rules for the entrance agreement that national speciality can be respected. I think the entrance of the Norwegian nations, Finland e.g., has shown what can be done in agriculture, where agriculture from north of 62 degrees is defined as a very high degree. Not only can they strengthen their agriculture but they can also draw much strength from the relationship. I'm quite convinced that if we're a major oceanic empire, it's our main objective to achieve an acceptable contract there. I think that experience will show us and other nations have shown us that it will be quite possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u33	A respectable president. We're here in the EEA Regulation for the growth market of small and medium-sized enterprises. Somehow, we were in protective lines and agriculture from the north. I don't know exactly how it was connected, but I'd like to talk about what it means. When small or medium-sized companies want to get support, whether it is a innovation, to start a business or perhaps expand a market or something, it is very difficult to register in a stock market. We may be able to see that in Iceland at the Nasdaq stock market there are 20 companies, but for a long time they were only 10 or 12. It is simple: Signing into the market is very difficult. There are many rules that must be followed and that are more intended for companies who are more advanced in their lifetime. We can see that, for example. The Icelandic banks have been registered at different times in this market, Icelanda, Eimship, and others, whether in the market or not. But if you have an SME, especially if it's also a new company, there are different ways of making money. Sometimes these companies go into talking to high - risk investors who are known as Adventist capitals. However, it does not necessarily apply to all and the purpose of this Regulation is to simplify it for companies to register in such markets. It is being simplified, like all the forms and rules to follow, but at the same time it is safe to invest in these companies in a transparent way. We have one example of this market that some Icelanders may recognize. It's called First North Market run by Nasdaq. It has a large number of companies from the North and six Icelandic companies, and just to give people an idea, these companies like Hampinjan, certainly not a new firm, have old and good story. There's a Kaldalon who, if I know correctly, is a real estate company, Claps ▪ Green Solutions, Play, Southland's Warrant and the Solid Clouds Acting Company. I'd like to give a glimpse of what a company needs to meet in order to get to the market. They need to work with an approved adviser who is specialised in registering an enterprise. It needs to be such a business that there is no less confidence in the market. What does that mean? This has to be a business that isn't some kind of gambling city that collapses fast, but it has to be a real business. There must be some kind of merit. There must be sufficient sellability, sufficient supply, and sufficient demand for stocks, and within it it is set out what much of the community's ownership is being offered at markets. This needs to be a community or community partnership. In other words, it is not possible to take and record a private partner, it needs to be a partner first, and then, of course, the stocks need to be electronically registered and some other things in this regard. Then the company needs to have some business history or clear goals about which to name. So getting these rules through this Regulation is important because if we want to live well in Iceland - which I know is the highest. The foreign minister has still strong nerves, and after he has been bought on the market, it is important that the regular work around this growth market and the markets there be so that investors and the public who want to buy on the market can be confident that they will be assured of access and insight into what it is to invest in and do so in a way that, as it is called, in English integrity, the market is well maintained. I think this directive is of the good, and it is my hope that with increasing and better regulations around it, by reducing the costs for the companies who want to register in this market and by ensuring increased transparency and other activities, we will see more innovation companies registered on such a market and will choose this as a means of making money. They invest to do new great things for Iceland and Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u34	A respectable president. It's such an interestingly subtle transparency thing that we have in our hands, as revealed only in the case of a man. Gísli Rafn, son of Ólafsson. I have to brag about a report I was running over the other day, mainly because of what a nice name it was called. It is called in English ◯Emmining EU capital targets for SMEs - partnering the art of cool discipline, or how we promote financial markets in support of SMEs and make it happen again to register the enterprises. This proposal for a hearing that we have in our hands is about that, not merely making some background in which funding will be available to these companies, but where funding will be available in some transparent and responsible way so that they can finance themselves at a market of a particular quality standard, which is perhaps the most important thing I would say, because it often wants to burn in particular companies at the earlier stages of their lives that they need to rely on less secure and often, what to say, the gray, financing methods. This is important because SMEs are the driving force in the job world. We can see this very well through Covid, that individuals and small groups can work together, making the job market much faster than anything else. What these companies are also moving us is innovation in areas larger and more affordable businesses have perhaps not thought about getting a course on. It was mentioned in one of the earlier discourses that it was unfortunate how much the Icelandic draft hall was made in the European Union. But it's not just because we want to do a good job in class, that we want a good score with the EEA Committee, but because many of the matters we're getting through the EEA deal are nationalistic in some way and improving our community. Therefore, I would like to mention in relation to this Regulation, which is from 2018, whether or not we should look at other regulations that came to a later date, either by implementing their material content without necessarily being pushed to that end through the joint EEA Commission or by making it more available to us. The regulations we are considering today are from 2019 C.E. Since that time, much has happened about the financial market in the European Union, and perhaps more than one of the major priorities that have been put on sustainable investments is to use the financial system as a tool for combating climate change. As to this aspect of the financial system, the government that is now seated and the previous ones that have been in the past have been far too asleep. The financial system holds a lot of money that needs to be put to work, which needs investing. Therefore, the 145th legislature was important when, for example, the Council of Justice was established in 145th. was added to the Pension Department of Pension regulations that set up values in investments. In a perfect world, we could say that the moral standards of pensions would include that those who did not finance in the industry who destroyed the future. In fact, those laws have been difficult to interpret, they are not follow - up enough, and they may be able to cover more sectors of the financial system so that things are getting calm in the same direction. At the 146th legislature, which is the Senate after staging moral standards on the financial expenses of the pension fund, I asked myself to be intrigued by the current financial and economic minister whether he felt the need to sharpen the rules of pension investment policy in order to be absolutely clear that they should serve climate goals and objectives of sustainability. When the minister answered, he referred to the moral standards that he thought would reach the situation and should also be rather beneficial in each fund and that information would be subsidized very frequently. As a result, I asked the minister in writing how much of the Pension of Pension Funds was tied up in the processing and sale of fossil fuels, just to take a test of how beneficial it would be. Then it was found that the minister could not answer because they were members of the unconnected state who could not be required to give the required information so that the transparency against the Commission and the legislators could be very low. Then I did a little more to follow, and at the 146th Congress again said that pension funds should be sent in an investment policy report showing how the funds were to enforce moral standards in their investments. But it turns out that the financial watch has no criteria on how this is all measured, so the reports return, and it's unclear what the pension fund would get, if that were the case. That's what I'd like to say, as I entered in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, because it is expected what is called a 'taxonoy' or a frame around sustainable financial institutions from the European Union, which merely concerns financial institutions in the whole of Europe, is actually at the same level. Such rules are not only about skiming a pension fund, banks, and other financial institutions to do certain things, but also about ensuring their competitiveness in the continent so that there is no way to use greenwash with any useless claims about sustainable investments that may later prove to be impossible. The European Union classification system on its way is not perfect, but it is what the financial system in Iceland is going to need to work on, and it is what the financial system in Iceland is beginning to work on because it is the step ahead of the government. But that's not how it had to be, Mr. President. If the government of 145, 146, or 147th Congress, when we were discussing this in this hall, would have only seen what time it is and introduced some criteria in Iceland, Iceland would have been led in Europe on these issues and created financial companies in Iceland a prerogative advantage rather than just to wait for a time to fall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u35	A respectable president. The report on the financial impact of this introduction will be discussed. It says that part of the induction process lies in the code of the telecommunication bill discussed here last week. As regards financing, it says: ▪ Become a former bill for new communication laws estimated that the State's cost can increase by up to 185 billion. K. This year, with the increased cost of telecommunications clinic work. Also says: The estimated cost increase, if the bill is legal, is unfashionable in budgetary programme 2022◯226. Thus, reexamination of financial programmes will be considered. However, in view of the financial strategy that will be discussed here tomorrow, this increase in cost is not mentioned. As there is a 10% increase in cost from the current financial resources, I believe that such a project needs to be made aware of in such planning. That's why I'm asking the highest. Foreign Minister: Is it not a reason to revise a financial program and to sharpen the impact of this production and code in general on government funds for communication in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u36	You're right next door. A senator's assessment of the university, industrial, and innovation of the Ministry says that there's an increase in state funds due to this level of about 165 million. K. This may reduce the cost within a few years. For example, when it comes to further distribution of the frequent by 5G, income may reverse. At the end of the current time, a reassignment of all frequencies may be up to 750 billion. K. ... ina monopoly for state funds. So, as the situation is now, and to make a bill that measures are made, it becomes clear what the total cost will be or what the increase in expenses will require. If this happens to be the case, there may be scope for an updated financial programme over the next year, both because there will be scope for the development of financial programs, such as traditionally a year, and however, each year's spending increases, if any, and for what length of time when income will meet and how much will be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for clear answers, but I wonder if the remuneration is to be expected in any of these terms. So just one question because I asked the last time we discussed this: Will this case increase the security of a nation's phone relationship?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u38	This interpretation proposal and the activities involved in this BREC Regulation and cooperation will be on its own, no, not increasing quality or connections when it comes to a telephone connection about a country, something we have to do, and we need to be on my mind. While this is certainly in good shape in comparison with other countries, we are expected to be able to maintain that relationship in a very good way throughout the country. It's not like today at all. What we're about to say is that we don't know exactly how much cost there's going to be, and we have room to weigh it and assess and update financial plans for the year, as I understand the information that comes from the university, industrial, and innovation agencies. In part, it is monocommunication, so if it is any permanent cost, it will not be caught by natural communicators. But with regard to the road relationship, it's really unrelated.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u39	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I have two short questions, and I switch them between the answers. I'd like to curious about the 5th floor. According to the Emergency Line, by permission of the President's equipment, the budget may be high enough to raise up to 35 million. K. and the cost of operating is increasing by 20 million. K. This is the year, and this is the year's history. I wanted to know if it's the highest. A minister might explain the demands that would be met at this expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u40	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator, the emergency line estimate may be up to 35 million. K. and the cost of operating is increasing by 20 million. K. every year. What equipment it is exactly as the emergency line thinks it needs to invest in I don't understand, but I have learned that when an investor is viewed as a monotonous cost, it often comes with the permanent cost of such new equipment. So I assume that the cost of operating turns to that there's just higher operating costs with new ones, and the expected better equipment. I don't know exactly what that equipment is, but it can be answered by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u41	A respectable president. I thank you very much, and since I'm on the committee, I'm probably gonna get this information and I'm gonna want it there. In the same article, it is said that by law of the 50th paragraph. The BREEC protocol for maximum pay by consumers due to phone calls in Europe and text messages may be subject to loss of income, but consumers are benefited. So now I just look up for fun with two companies here on the other hand from Nova, where you only pay fixed fees per month if you want to call abroad, and then the calls per will not be satisfied, and on the other hand, with the Simanum, where, for example, you can call abroad. The minute before a call to Germany, it's 40 bucks. and the text about 22 k. I just wanted to know if it's the highest. Ministers have some ideas from this Regulation on what the maximum budget is, so you can see how much we consumers can make up for the fact that it's coming through here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u42	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that consumers will benefit from the decision to take maximum account of phone calls and text messages in the EEA area. As a result, market markets will be at the loss of income in this case. They are, however, closely following the recording of these regulations because there are other factors that are relevant to the induction of this process, and this is in reality in harmony with the rapidly changing nature of this sector and the rapid development of the process. The nature of these enterprises has changed to a large extent, not necessarily that companies are less effective. I can't answer the question of who's going to be in circles or text messages, but I'm assuming there's information that can be brought to the committee when the committee reviews the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u43	President. I had to look online to figure out what kind of credit bills they were, and then I found that they're just normal bank accounts for us consumers that we can deposit money on, take money out of, and we can pay our bills. It was interesting to me, though, that this is an old directive. She's originally from 2014, and when I was trying to figure out what it all was all about, because sometimes it's a little hard to read out on this council plan, I could see that this case went to a committee of 2015. I just wanted to be curious at the highest. The minister would be the reasons why this has taken so long to enter an Icelandic rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u44	Mr. President. When a big question is asked, it's what I can tell you that this is certainly part of the financial public recording hall. We're induction palace when we have a case we're going to complete the EEA contract but it's been completed by the EEA Committee and we need to finish our part. The draft balance is then at the time that the joint EEA committee and our components will adopt regulations, directives or regulations in the EEA Convention. This is part of the financial public recording hall. His job is to earn him up, and his priorities have been set. That may be the essence of the answer. They have been working on a set priority because they have made significant changes in the past few years. You can read that since it's from 2015, but now it's just getting in here, it would've been pretty low in that priorities. Whether this type should have been more important than others should not be said. I'm not quite in position to answer that. This, in part, depends on the judgment of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and also on our fellow workers in EFTA, the European Union. It may actually be a combination of all these things that I imagine played in there. Without telling exactly which of these factors weighs much, it's so that these factors together we're bringing them in right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u45	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Well, let's hope we can get this done quickly through the council, since it's been waiting so long. It is of great interest to note that this is the setting of guidelines for transparency and the comparison of fees to be paid by consumers. It has not been quite beneficial for Icelandic consumers to consider the cost they are taking to heart, especially when it comes to receiving the various types of service. In the old days, the difference between growth and growth was used to run the bank, but today it appears to be a service fee. I wanted to know if it's the highest. A minister might explain whether it is my correct understanding of the Regulation that it also helps, for example. Icelands that move to the European Union to open bank accounts or pay accounts when moving to an image between countries. If you have moved between several European countries, opening your bank account is often one of the most complex steps you can find. There's talk of building accounts because of cross-border payment, and do I understand correctly that it will make it easier to do business in other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u46	Mr. President. The short answer is yes. This should simplify and ensure that all persons who live legally in Iceland have access to general payment accounts and consumers make it easier for them to change accounts and public access to information on payment accounts, including tax accounts. with currency, return index, comparison of websites in terms related to payment accounts. As I understand it, so should it, because it applies to other countries to help people open accounts in the European Union and the region.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u47	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I think it's important that we, although we've already passed a law in relation to a special bond that we add to the conditions that come with this Regulation. Well, that's one time, so we don't have to go far back, um... 14 years or so, thinking about how some loans and bonds were given and other items with no real bets. So it is good that we learn from past mistakes and improve our order, so I believe it is important that this Regulation receive quick and good payment here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u48	A respectable president. On February 1st. Here I criticized in the public talk that a government accountant was transferred from the area of the legislature and across to the Commission. There was a misuse of 36 str. Employees are fully aware of the legal evidence that it is the permission of a minister to transfer from one office to another, but it does not refer to judges or officials of any local agency acting by the General Assembly. On that same day, the emissary of the General Minister sent a letter and called attention to a state accountant's legal hearing under the General Assembly; he is independent and subject to none of his activities and is outside the European Commission. After obtaining data, an agent made his examination with the evidence that the Council is a member of the case. The president of the Generalis has taken a firm stand on the legal ground, and the role of surveillance by an agent is not taking over the work and determination of the Lawgiver. Thus, the U.S. Councilman actually threw the ball to Generalis, and the question remains: Will we accept this interpretation by the chairman and Minister of the Council at 36 st. The staff law, allowing this example to stand? Or are we going to respond in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u49	A respectable president. I'm gonna take it here for a second. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson. V.E.G. And then the president, and the highest. The minister of culture and commerce has set a very dangerous example by the order of a government accountant to an office without advertising. There is no record in countries that call themselves known in modern and uncontaminated administration of an individual, such as a government accountant, who may. is assigned to monitor the Icelandic administration and property of the state, to cross a line that is to be respected in an effort to promote respect for national surveillance by which there is so little evidence in Icelandic society. The general public should be able to trust that whether it's U.S. Marshals' agent, judges or, as in this case, national accountant, has the confidence and authority to perform their legal tasks without the approval of the government, they can presenturise representatives of the Ministry Directorates at the end of a job job. I repeat, this is an example that cannot be set, and we correct it by accepting a law change that leaves no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u50	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir This is a bad example that threatens the independence of all members of the Dagbjört Hákonardóttur. This example calls for action, so we, a group of members of Congress, have provided a bill for changing the law on the rights and duties of the servants of the state. We propose changes to 36th par. a sentence that will take no doubt that this law does not reach judges or is not available to officials at the council's office of surveillance. Thus we would like to heighten the fact that they are only in office and in the work being done. This is important. It's about defending the tribunal government and the respect of the surveillance agencies employed by the Generals, and I hope to find a broad support for this case from members of all groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u51	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 650, 451th matter, about the change in fish control law, and more from the catch of blue-seatatur fish. Iceland has secured considerable fishing warrants from a blue-seat fish at the scene of the Atlantic Fishing Council, but in recent years, this fishing has not been practiced by the Icelandic fishing industry, so it does not benefit from the fishing grounds. If the sources are not new, it may be difficult to keep them for a long time and thus Iceland will become valuable to them. A blue-seattan fish is a valuable species sold on markets in Asia for a fine price. As a result, the Ministry has considered options for restarting tuna fishing and becoming part of an Icelandic fishing industry for the future with the full use of Iceland's share. The Council has agreed with the main stakeholders working on the bill for the change in law so that there can be continued hunting experience and sharing of Iceland in the future, ensuring the training and knowledge of the fish needed. Icelandic law allows permission to fish for commercial purposes for ships registered in Iceland, and fishing and management should be done by Icelandic parties as further detailed in Article 5. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006, sr. 1st par. legislation on the fishing and implementation of foreign ships in Iceland's Fishland weekend, No. 22/1998. It is a fishing project that needs special ships, but such ships and equipment are not present in Iceland at the moment. In order to contribute to the restarting of the fishing work in Iceland, it is considered necessary to provide temporary legal clearances in order to allow Europeans to hire specialized foreign ships to catch up on clover fish to maintain Iceland's hunting experience, to search out the cost of fishing, and to build up national expertise in such fishing. The songs the bill suggests change are fish control laws, No. 116/2006, Iceland's Fishing and fishing Act, No. 22/1998, Iceland's Fishing Weekend, No. 79/1997, and a job investment law by foreign partners, No. 34/1991. It is important to note that the temporary provision for temporary fishing will be temporary for six years and will be presented as exceptions from the principle of Icelandic fishing by Icelandic ships and crews. It is expected that if hunting goes by, citizens will see the advantage of ensuring that ships with equipment for fishing will be registered in Iceland after six years of testing. It is important that the committee consider these preliminary requirements, both in time and in other aspects. The main stakeholders on the subject of the bill are Iceland's Marine Union, the Corporate Controller's Association, the Fégle of Engineers and metal techs, and the European Enterprises Association of Fisheries. These committees were held in May and June 2021. There have also been consultations with other departments involved. The legal plans, along with initial assessments of influence, were published by the government's consultations last January. There were no reviews. The drawings of this bill were so published in the consultation puzzle by the end of January and February, and no reviews were received. The increase in government expenses is not expected if the bill is approved. If you catch a blue-seated fish, it could return money to government funds in the form of taxes and licenses and services later on. The effects on administrative matters are negligible and are in place to receive the tasks the bill recommends. Sustainable use of natural resources is positive in this context. Then I underscore the importance of maintaining the hunting experience and share of Iceland at the Atlantic Tuna Council. In this way we can develop national knowledge and experience for these fish, explore their practicality, create income, work, and employment around the industry. A respectable president. I've traced the main subject of the bill, and I'd like to refer to the rest of the series that follows, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u52	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I have a question for the minister. Both in the report and in the history of a minister, it is now stated that there has been no fishing in the country of tuna for years and therefore there has been little experience with them. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister: Why is this going on now, is it just getting married? Is there any repairs asking for this, or is it just coming from inside the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the question. Just as I traced the ensuing talk, this bill is now a bill to increase the likelihood that Iceland can use the resources available in Iceland to catch a space fishing fish and have obtained at the scene of the Atlantic Fishing Council. In recent years, we have not been making good use of this because Icelandic ships do not have the equipment and experience and the knowledge needed to pursue this fishing. Therefore, this exception is being proposed, so that technical equipment, special foreign ships, and crews can be used to maintain the future fishing experience in the region, after the six - year period covered by the provisional principle is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u54	President. V.E.G. In fact, a minister forgot to answer my question, which was, Was there any repairs asking for it? But I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of another question. Now there is a blue-seattan fish on the IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature, an evil list of animals, or what is called the English language known as IUCN, a major reduction in the number of animals in the Atlantic. Now I've moved to the highest. Minister of the bill when he was environmental minister in the last term that discussed the protection of animals on a list, so I'd like to ask why do we have a bill here for hunting on an animal on a bad list?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u55	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. As far as I know, it's the Atlantic Fishing Council's assessment that this is a sustainable fishing business. I don't know better than that, and otherwise this bill wouldn't be done in this way. To answer a question, why? A senator I didn't answer earlier, so the local marine organisation asked the Ministry to look into the matter. The Ministry agreed to do so, but they pointed out that this must be settled with sailors'communities. I believe it is, and it's been guaranteed by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u56	Mr. President. Thank you for your history. I'm quite interested in the fact that me and the Icelanders with our developers make good use of the natural resources we have just as well as normal, and I also like tuna, so I carefully watched and read it through. But I just think that's half a story. This tells us that at last we have the sought - out resources to fish that are highly popular and expensive. Why do Icelandic farms, Icelandic ships, not take advantage of this authority, according to the highest estimates? Minister? And why is this exception needed instead of doing what is done at all times? We have access to expensive materials. Yes, it would probably take something to pick it up, a special ship and something like that, but our very best agents are able to calculate the profit of such. [[The president calls.]] I just can't figure out why we haven't, for all these years that we've had it, new it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. As I understand the point, it is simply because this country does not have the equipment and knowledge needed to use this resource and therefore this fishing has not been practiced so far. This provision is an attempt to attract knowledge from other parts of the world so that we can gain the knowledge and experience that we need in order to continue using this vital kind of knowledge. A senator rightly declared that it is of great value and, however, could produce a number of incomes into a Icelandic population.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u58	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. What I was thinking, maybe, was that now that there are considerable fishing warrants of the expensive raw materials that are highly sought for and fought for these sources, why do we come to the conclusion that this trial period is necessary. But the highest. The minister did well. I may only have one quick question. There's something I couldn't find here in the report, and it's whether these fishing warrants are handed out. Or is this so that if we do not make the full use of it, they will collapse over a period of time?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u59	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I do not have the answer to this question why. Senator. That's right, that's not part of the report, because I read it. I'll get to the answer and get it to what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u60	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to at least Two because of this bill. This is an enormous value, as I understand it, and it is clear that hunting experience and knowledge of these fish need to be gained again, even though we have once practiced this fishing. The first question is, How will these sources be distributed? There's no way I'm the best on the bill. I wondered if they will be offered or given, and it would be good to get an answer to that and perhaps also to what the Ministry's assessment of the value of the 0.5% of the total resources. I think it's nice to have those numbers somewhere in your head to understand it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm kind of going to get started by finishing up with the former senator, so I'm asking you. I'm sorry, but it's supposed to be a special law in the Regulation on the distribution of these fish, which is not delivered as in the catchery system, so it's a Fishroom, so I'll give you a reply. A senator on this side, assigning these resources. It's not making any changes. As a result of the distribution into Iceland, it has increased, if I recall correctly, from 0.2% to 0.5% of total resources and as I understand the point, there is a considerable value that will go to the park if Iceland is not taking advantage of this. Here we are under attack that we may do so in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u62	V.E.G. President. There is no doubt in my mind that we have a lot of value under here, and hunting experience is being ensured and taking advantage of the total resources available to Iceland's share in ICCAT. Did I understand the minister's correctness that there will be a special law on the distribution of these sources and that they will be actually distributed in May? It will not be offered nor will it be paid for them. Rather, will it be written to a law and to these grand things be distributed as the right thing to do? Well, I don't think it's convincing enough of a case, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u63	V.E.G. President. This has not been the case, according to the fishing experience that has been available here, is necessary to limit the number of fish where the attack has not been. Of course, doing so can happen in the future if many are successful and are applying for it. It's about 180 tons a year, i.e. this 0.5%, so it's substantial and like whatnot. A senator came in is an important way to make use of this. I need to refer to the part of the senator's inquiry, and ask her to forgive me for that, for a discussion on the committee, since I do not have the exact answer to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u64	Mr. President. I cut by the highest. The minister said that there was no significant cost in the report, and I now just say that, in the future, there may be some income of this in the form of taxes. Now I understand that we're such new fishing, it may be necessary to be patient. But we also know that, the highest. Minister and I, that the climate in the world is changing. The species will come here that were not once. Others may leave. What is the minister's attitude toward it when that happens? Will Ministers continue to use this system that we have now returned to the Icelandic nation hunting costs that are not under supervision and management of the resource? Or does he feel that we should follow new paths, even offer clearances, and try to maximise the nation's profits with the resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u65	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It introduces a very important point, which is that new species are being introduced into Icelandic fishing history and not just that, there is also a possibility that others may go out. As science does, species are moving north simply because the sea is warming up. This may result in profound changes in ecosystems, as we do today, as it were. A senator came in. It's very important to me that we examine each occasion when new species are being transferred to the country in what ways it is possible to use them. Are their strains self-sustained with absolute innovation? That, of course, is what must be behind the use we are looking for in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u66	Mr. President. Me and the highest. I'm sure Ministers agree on the definition of sustainability. Social, economic and environmental stability and equilibrium. Now it's hard to talk about sustainable fishing if the resources of the resource don't get to the nation. That is why I repeat the question: Does the Ministers see that we use this opportunity, when it begins to come up with new species of fish, to use the means to make money for us, or will the government continue to check in the shelter that makings have worked so hard to find and feel that they have the right to have it just to have it checked out, as has, of course, the recent types of species that have come in here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion on this. That's right, I think we'll probably agree when it comes to sustainableity. Selfishness is not only environmental, it is also social, and, of course, it is also economic. I simply think about natural resources, whether in the sea or in the country, that the public in the country should make money from them, of course. We're talking about the use of these resources as something that comes back, the profit it gives to the nation. So I just agree with what. A senator said that it is important to find a way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u68	A respectable president. We're talking about a blue-seat fish, one of the most sought - after fish in the world. Yeah, it's not the cod, it's a blue shadow fish. The species we have here on Iceland's shores is a so - called Atlantic blue - eyed tuna fish, one of the largest tuna species, most of which have been fished in the range of 2,2250 pounds [20,250 kg]. They may be up to 40 years old. And, yes, it's a valuable fish. You see, the market price in the Atlantic blue eyefish is about 400 dollars per kilogram. For one fish in 2019, $1.75 million were paid. You can imagine what it was like when Japanese tuna boats were fishing here 25 years ago in Iceland, came ashore to obtain supplies, oil, and the Icelandic sailor asked what they were catching, and the Japanese tuna fisherman said to tuna fish. The Icelandic sailor replied: "Yes, cat food like that. But when the Japanese tuna fisherman told the sailor what he could get for a single fish, the Icelandic sailor thought of all the tuna that had caught in his net and that he had thrown into the water over the years. Yeah, it's expensive fish. We were talking about that earlier in answer to the fact that Iceland had received a message of about 180 tons, some of which are somewhere between 700 and900 animals. Their value in Icelandic dollars every year, if they were all caught and sold on the market at this price, is $2.3 billion. Yes, perhaps someone should pay for access to such resources. We might ask ourselves, " Why didn't I hunt here on this fish? ' Thus, there may not have been the right boat to catch and the wrong knowledge. I once heard a story about one boat that went out to hunt, came back with 15 fish, but they were worthless when they arrived in the country. You see, for the tuna, it has to stay cold. It needs to stay below, if I remember correctly, 20°C from the time it's caught until it's eaten. If it doesn't, it produces an enzyme that causes it if you eat that way a fish blows your face out, and that's probably not a very pleasant experience. So, it takes special knowledge and special experience to catch this fish. Icelandic fishing companies have not seemed ready to hunt him, despite the vast amount of value there is. It is also important to watch the other side. Although they are being assigned to ports and are being tried to control the fishing in Atlantic blue shadows, the number of fish in the Atlantic is rapidly descending. As I mentioned in answer to the highest. Ministers then have the International Union for Conservation of Nature, as suggested in English, put the Atlantic blue-seat plaguing fish on the list of endangered animals, so we need to ask ourselves as a nation: Yes, there's a resource, it's a valuable resource, but would we like to catch animals that are on the list? Unfortunately, the bill reached the highest level. A minister to legalize the protection, welfare, and fishing of wild birds and mammals is not being carried out. Actually, I haven't checked to see if a clover fish is a mammal or not, but this song bill suggested that we not pursue an animal in the middle of a disaster. It is important, however, to realize that it may not be mainly these fishing fish that are passing through the quotas that are reducing the number of fish, but it is also practiced by a large pirate hunt, in many cases, just outside Iceland's jurisdiction. There's something we need to think about, i.e. how we should work as a community in protecting animals outside the jurisdiction of all these different countries. I'm sorry, but it's the blue-seattic fish that we don't know much about it. There are two strains of the Atlantic blue finarium fish, the western and eastern population, and it is believed that the trunk will travel all the way from this cold sea to the south of Iceland to either the Gulf of Mexico or the Mediterranean to produce offspring. But it is generally said by nature that these areas need to be researched and understood, more fully, how these strains travel between areas because of the different fishing regimes in each area. Finally, when talking about large fish, such as the blue shadows of the fish, it is worth considering that the amount of mercury in these fish is increasing, and the quantity is much higher in tuna than in other fish because of what they eat. There are many cases where people who have moved from carnivores to eat large quantities of tuna, swordfish, and other large fish simply get mercury poisoning because of the quantity in such species. So these are all the things we need to keep in mind. I hope you've learned something about the blue-seat fish, like I did. It does taste good, it does not say no, but unfortunately it may be fish that we will not be able to use as food indefinitely if we hunt too much of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u69	Mr. President. Thank you for your pleasant speech. It was almost like being back in high school when people came up and read their style. But I thought that the last few years, year after year, I probably have to think more about it because I feel that my face has blown out. Hv. A senator apparently studied this matter quite well, and he described it as a likely cost of fish we attended could be 9.3 billion. But, of course, that's only half the story. The value of the fish, the value of the sale of the fish, must naturally be less expensive. This was shown in the talk of the highest. Minister that we have little experience, little knowledge and little equipment. Has a what? A senator examines whether it is likely that this fishing will just be possible or will it be questionable because of the obvious lack? If net value in the end is not very high, then we can understand. For example, in view of the situation on the tuna farm, do you think that Iceland is justified in applying for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u70	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Well, that's once so that the Japanese send ships all the way to the coasts of Iceland, to Iceland's waters, to hunt these fish. So if you can make out a ship that sails halfway around the world to catch these fish and get some nice money, then that would mean that if you sail only 100 miles of miles or 150 miles of water, you must be able to do it in a practical way. It naturally plays into how much a boat can produce, whether it can be done in a lucrative way or not. It depends on where the fish is and where there is still plenty of fish. According to what I've studied, this fish was a big deal, for example. At the eastern coast of the United States, which was overwhelmed, the trunk declined, and it was less profitable. These fish here in the Atlantic are larger than the fish being fished in the South seas and in the Pacific, which makes these fish more valuable, which means that they can be caught more productively. Whether we can get ships and people with knowledge here -- yeah, I think we can get one at a good price to make it happen. Of course, the first thing we need to learn is how we hunt, how we handle the raw materials, and how we make sure that the price obtained by products is at the highest level. The price factor is not just 400 dollars, as I mentioned, but may be much higher for a good fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u71	President. Yeah, yeah. A senator seems convinced that it may be possible to obtain valuables. Then I must ask. A senator would see how we should assign resources so that we would receive a good price for them, so that they would give something to them. But I also want to dwell on those questions. A candidate for the situation at tuna farms or tuna institutions, these may be a number of species. I felt that the senator wanted to be careful, so he made his shoes that perhaps this type of blue fin should be picked up. So I ask why. Again, whether he feels that we should exercise caution in this regard even though there is considerable value on the matter and whether we need to get information about it in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u72	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm worried that the Atlantic blue-seattan fish is on a motif. So we need to be careful about starting fishing. The tuna is one of my favorite foods, so it's bad to have to say it, but I think if we're going to catch this species, we're also gonna have to invest in research, be part of an international study, because it's a strain that goes into the jurisdiction of many people. We need to participate in this to make sure that we are not overfishing, that this is done on a scientific basis. Then we need to collect some fees so that we can do the research. Unfortunately, the price paid for fishing does not even depend on the surveillance and research we have today and so on, so that it would have to fit in from the beginning. Hv. A senator asks: "How is it to distribute the Quakers? I think we can look back. We were all watching good TV shows on how it was done last time, and I don't think it was done well. I think we need to think of new and better ways to get the people out, which is something of great value.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and for the second time. Senator here, Logi Einarsson. There were things in that conversation that I had planned to ask. There's one sitting there for a while. A senator talks about it, and it's the badass, that the blue-seat fish has come on a motif because of plundering as well. and especially will take place just outside our fishing history. Is it possible to turn it around a little because of that? A senator expressed concern about what would happen if we began fishing? What if the Icelanders with their history of responsible fishing and responsible fishing management were to show this kind of attention and catch in accordance with the highest standards of distribution; could it possibly have a positive effect on the future of this fish stock, because I know from experience that such fishing would follow research and other factors, we would do our part? Also, wise fishing based on scientific evidence would likely mean that we would be more careful that the conduct of the so - called pirate fishing ships was just around our territory. Isn't this something we responsible fish people should do? That's what I'm saying, and I'm excited to have an Icelandic tuna ashore.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u74	A respectable president. Yes, if we're going to go out in this hunt, I think it's just the good thing that we did it and seriously. That we invest in research, invest in better control of what is happening in these areas, and set a good example for others, but we also cooperate with those international parties. It was said that these were only 0.5% of the quatans being referred to as exporting to Iceland, so there are other larger hunters there. But like a dog. A senator says, maybe we can come with our knowledge and experience from how we've done things more responsibly than other nations, and thus save our blue-seat fish and our sushi.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u75	V.E.G. President. The bill on this subject will be discussed in the course of the discussion. A professional committee, and for the reasons I wanted to mention just a few points, perhaps repeating earlier statements in this discussion and about the value of what we are discussing. 180 tons a year, said the highest. Minister to this total level of sensitivity, which may not sound as high as the amount. But as shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir That ton contains the most expensive of fish markets, which enables us to speak of something of enormous value, is the key to the survival of Rafn Gísli of Ólafsson. Of course, it is good to hear the minister here claim that in spite of the fact that the so - called blue-spotted fish has come to an extreme, it must be very careful about fishing and not overfishing. First of all, I want to mention that important point that I hope will be discussed at time. The employment committee, and it's that our duty to sea research will be completely clear in the payment of this bill. That it is clear that Merro is here to play a role and to be taken into this hunt is absolutely clear that we shoulder our responsibility to investigate the species, the impact of the fish, and to try them in cooperation with other nations that share in these institutions to promote scientific cooperation if at all possible. I'll leave that to the scientists. I think, however, that it can only be emphasized here that we have to do a lot of research, especially when it's actually a test of whether these things can be paid, whether we can get the kind of fishing experience that humans clearly hope for, expected at the Food Ministry, and also among stakeholders, because it would not be bringing this bill here tonight. This bill wouldn't be measured. It hasn't been paid on our side for six years, and there's a reason. The Ministry's assessment seems to be that we have to go on this trip, allowing Icelandic factories to rent ships that have to be rented to catch the blue-seat fish, acquire knowledge. I get it so we rent a ship with a man and a mouse, like it says. There is also a need to buy foreign knowledge from sailors who can catch blue-seat fish, and there is no knowledge available among sailors here. So it's a lot of business. Then I come to what I said in answer to the highest. Ministers, to receive resources is so far from being a matter, that they are delivered free to those who use the institutions, using our common resources. I realize this is a hunting experience, but I want to, as has been done before in this discussion, to remind you of how the holding of the Icelandic saying system came into existence. It was created on the basis of hunting experience, fishing experience by the captain, the fishing experience of a company, and it was taken in the last three years if I remember correctly. We know, and experience tells us that this does not necessarily lead to fair distribution of values. It must be so that this matter has been thought of in the Ministry and that it is put on cold judgment about the value of this journey and what moderate fishing costs can be done so that not only at expense but hopefully also some income from it, though, regarding the nation's share in the resource, it is entirely intended that it is a novelty that should not be given away without a price. That's why I come up here, to reiterate this very important point, because we're still talking about every time a sea stream appears in this hall of sustainable fishing, a fair profit from the use of the resource to the nation. We must not do what was done here a few years ago when the mackerel was directly delivered free. It's just not supposed to happen, you know. President, that there will again be a way of delivering such valuables to a few chosen ones. Against that, we fight in the United States, and we always have, and we will continue to do it. So I come up here to reiterate the position of the Conspiracy and our peers, so it lies at 1st. about this bill and the highest. Minister will hear, and it will be provided at this assembly meeting. Other than that, we will examine with an open mind the pursuit of hunting experience by trying to use the share we have in this particular stock of blue-spotted fish. If I understood the discussion correctly, these are a few strains, the more reason to investigate exactly how the fish will take them out of the stocks that are going to hunt. I just assume that there is. The employment commission has arranged for our ocean research duties to be met, the source of resources will not be free, and the operation will be prepared for waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u76	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill on Article 684 of the 475 case for a change in law No. 93/1995, on food, and on law No. 22/1994 for monitoring of food, lotions and seeds for organic production. The objective of the bill is to introduce the European Parliament's properly controlled Regulation and Council 2018/848 from 2018 on bioproducts and the meaning of products. The directive replaces older regulations for the bioproducts adopted in the EEA Convention and implemented in this country. The older rules were adopted in law No. 162/1994, on organic agrienvironment production. These laws have arrived in their years and do not provide adequate improvement for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/848. The bill therefore suggests that changes to food law and the law on feeding, product monitoring and seeding products are made to the Commission on bioproducts and on the meaning of biological products, as well as the law of No. 162/1994, on organic agrienvironment production, will be eliminated as a whole. By induction it is aimed at simplifying the regulation of organic production, strengthening the production monitoring systems, promoting the responsible use of energy and natural resources, increasing animal history, and maintaining biodiversity. The purpose of the Law No. 93/1995, for food, it is to ensure that the quality, safety, and loyalty of food and that the markings and other information about them are correct and adequate and take the law for production and distribution at all levels. Similarly, the purpose of the law is No. 22/1994 for monitoring food, creams and seed products to ensure that, where possible, there is safety and health of food and food quality and food delivery and ejaculation. Together, the law constitutes the setting of all food production and its foundations in the country. Organic production provides more strict food production requirements than traditional food production and implements the rules for bioproductisation in addition to the regulations of the EU Regulation (EU) 2017/625 for official monitoring that were implemented into law No. 93/1995, on food, and on law No. 22/1994 for monitoring of food, cream and seedy products. The bill suggests law No. 93/1995, on food, also cover bioproducts at all levels of food production and distribution. Bioproduction and adaptation are provided for such production. It is cut off from using any word or symbol that leads to organic production in the absence of certification, which is being done in the interest of consumers and manufacturers. It is then suggested that feed centres monitor bioproducts, except the marketing monitoring that will remain in the hands of the health monitoring centre. A special directive suggests that the manufacturer's warrant is temporarily removed or canceled when the requirements for manufacture are not met. In addition, legal regulations for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 are submitted and to further characterise the biological activities of the Regulation. This suggests similar changes to the law No. 22/1994 for monitoring of food, creams and seed products for permission to use of words and symbols that refer to organic production as well as temporary deletion or withdrawal in the absence of requirements. Finally, regulations are provided for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 and for the implementation of bioproduction, food application and seed products. Biofuel production has increased substantially in this country in recent years and consumer demand for such products. Organic production is a powerful weapon in fighting climate change and antibiotic resistance. It contributes to sustainability and biodiversity. With the bill this is a stream of regulations about bioproducts in the country, it is as beneficial for producers and consumers as it is for those who are in official monitoring of the production. A respectable president. Here I have traced the main subject of this bill and would like to refer to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'm just thinking about one thing that I know that the highest. Minister knows pretty well, at least. From his previous ministry, and it is sheep, and bit of sheep, and the effect thereof: how shall we say this? The justice of organic gains. This is a bill that affects the operators in bioproduction. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'd like to review my Senate case since 2020, on a review of the provision of public funds for the management of sheep farms. I know it's a fairyly bad name, but it simply turned out that we're not strengthening, from the environmental point of view, from sheep's product, where it was unclear if sheep were being used on a good enough land. In other words, it would be possible that we would be promoting bad treatment in a country with related environmental impacts and, on the other hand, to contribute to it, because this is not a specially marked product, consumers who truly want to be environmentally friendly, buy organic production cannot be sure that it is. So I would like to ask a minister: Is this case a matter that I should bring up? Because in the Regulation I read here on dog spray, the regulation on organic agricultural production, and in 21 st. It speaks of the environment of sheep and especially of livestock farming. It is said that the condition is a means of access to adequate agricultural practices during the summer. Is this a good thing to do? Is this large fault handled well - known to us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u78	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry, it's just fun to have this conversation again. A senator at the Senate Hall. [[Up front.]] I've missed it. Actually, that's what I'm talking about. I can't quite answer a question. A candidate in the report will discuss that by means of the implementation of the Regulation on this topic, the prevention and discontinuation of food fraud will ensure that consumers can be more confident that biohazard products are truly produced by biological products, under the emphasis on protection of ecosystems, animal travel, environment and climate. I have to admit to that. Senator I don't know how thorough the Regulation is. Here, however, are the key elements in this regard. A senator rolls up here. Ecosystem protection may be the biggest thing there, but, of course, it is also climate. In general, I can say that I think that we should use all the motivations we might have to reduce the insuficiency of bait. During the last terms, a large amount of work was being done in the Environment and Resource Ministry then called on to implement a national sustainable use programme. This has since moved to the Food Ministry, and I know that it is working out the comments discussed. There is also working on a national land - healing and forestry program related to this. But in general, I believe we should be motivated to try to reduce the insuficient use wherever she is and if there is one such impulse, I believe it is desirable, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u79	Mr. President. Yeah, well, we've come to the old-fashioned level of discussion, but I'm glad because I know it's the best. A minister has a lot of knowledge about this class and will to achieve this on the right form. I would, and the minister would so kindly review it, that this case, whether it is written in exactly as it is now, or if it will have changed in the case of a professional car committee, will take this into account. It's exactly in the 4th. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It is illegal to use any word, word pictures, terms, pictures or symbols that refer to organic product production on the label of packaging, in advertisements or business documents, unless production meets the requirements for organic product regulation... The protocol goes on to indicate that there should be access to good farming, and it is unmistakably not always a good warland used by sheep despite concentrations and linked to bioproducts. It's kind of a round-of-the-mill thing, and unfortunately, it hasn't been very good enough to master it. I will then continue to wonder just how unacceptable it is to invite consumers not to be able to get the assurance that what products they are buying and how unacceptable it is to offer them to farmers, producers, that they will always be able to do what is stated in Regulation and meet all these requirements, they will not be confident that they will carry them out and enjoy the harvest. I find this extremely important, and I find that seeing the Ministry talking more or less about the fact that this matter is primarily about control and other factors, and the community then talks about it not doing it, but about what is involved in the production. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't have any other question in myself, but I'm asking for the best of help. Minister for handling these items in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u80	V.E.G. President. I think there's a huge opportunity ahead when it comes to making Icelandic agriculture out in a way that makes it a success of climate protection and protection. It takes time, but it's quite possible. It is in many places that these matters are well along. I don't think any farmer wakes up in the morning and plans to push ashore. I'm sorry, though. What I'm trying to say is that no one has any intention of doing it but in some places it's still that way, that's what science tells us. This is a project that we need to work on and, yes, it will take time to do it, we need a great rule of action, for the review of a regulation on sustainable use of the land, and in this context, it is very important that we make it communicate with the strength we have in agriculture. Strengths in agriculture should, in my opinion, take into account a wide range of environmental conditions, the environmental impact of the agricultural environment, and we are to apply the concentrations also, that we are in poor land management so that we can in the future live up to the use that it needs to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u81	A respectable president. I'm gonna be brief. I just wanted to say that it's good that these laws are being provided with more specific rules on what is defined as organic product. It's important to consumers that you can not just say: it's organic, it's organic, it's organic, it's something that's behind it. In addition, an important step is taken by implementing the European Commission Regulation that we have passed through the Council for the year, Regulation (EU) 2018/848 for those who enjoy looking it up. Part of it is determined that what is witnessed here as organic works in Europe and vice versa. It is important that this be done. The reviews comment that this bill did not provide enough consultation, but there is just something that we consider on the job committee and try to get answers from the employees on what may be better going. And as did those of us who met with a representative of the Farm Council last week, we heard there of an excellent start-up work at the Blue Heart in Kjós, in Biobus, which has been developing to produce organic products for almost 25 years. It was fun to talk to them about how difficult that process was, in fact, beginning with it long before anyone else here was thinking about organic. So it's about making sure that we have some good rules around it. I trust that on the job committee, we will take into account the comments that come along and see what can be done to make things easier and better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u82	V.E.G. President. There's a reason to confront 1st. This bill, and to the extent that it has been shown, it's a great idea. I'm gonna allow me to quote the report, with the permission of the president: The production of organics results in a greater degree of demand and production conditions than the traditional production of food. Organic culture is based on fertile soils, organic manure, natural protection, and genetic bans. At the same time, rich farm requirements, such as making up equipment, house space, and domestic costs, should also be organic. Hormonal and other growth stimulating agents are not authorised and the use of antibiotics is limited. Bioproduction is a guarantee for both manufacturers and consumers that rich requirements are met. Organic production should contribute to the responsible use of energy and natural resources, increase in expensive means and maintain biodiversity. These are issues that concern the environment, the earth, consumers, food production, and climate. All of this is here, and I have to use this opportunity - perhaps mainly in view of the highest. The financial and economic minister was here in this speech chair not long ago becoming aware of our will to restore the Member State's application to the European Union and are being given a democratic discussion on the benefits of its sovereign state to become a member of the European Union. I understood a word of the highest degree. The financial and economic ministers then, so there's very little to go on, and we could have done all of this ourselves. Of course, we know that it is just like everyone else. For over 25 years, each legal adjustment has been introduced into Icelandic legislation through the EEA Convention, with our involvement in that great and good contract. Here we are dealing with organic food culture, a fundamental issue in all contexts. This is implemented according to the types of the European Union and updated accordingly. Of course we would have, my lord. President, could you do all this yourself, or what? Finally: This matter is particularly concerned with consumer protection, that consumers can assume that the level of organic production is real and that it is real, that it is not just stickers, if I may speak up, is not just stickers. Rather, it is clear that the witness is professional, legal, and in accordance with the standards that we recognize and accept in business matters as well. This is of great importance because, fortunately, many consumers, at least those of us who are able, want to pay more for the production of Jehovah's Witnesses, and then we can do it, and we assume that what we are buying is good food. It matters, and this is a big step in progress, and I know it will be discussed in detail at which point. A professional health committee. I believe that this is a major progress matter and will do my part to ensure that it will be decommissioned here at the high Council but also want to use the opportunity and reiterate how fortunate we are to have made the EEA agreement and to take advantage of what came from us to make environmental reforms, in the interest of climate, in the interest of nature protection and in the interests of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u83	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say here that the thing that's being discussed here is, in all respects, positive, I think. All can agree that organic production is good and desirable. I come here in the symposium to make comments to a talk. A senator who spoke just before, for there is no reason to speak down to the General of the Icelanders from a speech chair in the way I thought the senator would do. Iceland has been participating in international legal cooperation for decades, and all who have studied Icelandic correct history know well well that we were active participants, e.g. in the Norwegian legal community for years. And many of the people we can call basic changes in Icelandic law, fundamental laws that have been used here, including negotiations and many other legal groups, were rooted in such cooperation. There is a fundamental difference between being on such a partnership and being on a passenger's seat. There, I think there's a key point that may be uncomfortable at the moment. A member of the Parliament and his team, for it is not a privilege for the General to establish the European Union that everything good comes from here and that in some sense we are unable to write laws that are Icelandic for health benefits and Icelandic industry and agriculture for progress. It will undoubtedly be a good opportunity later to discuss this at the council when the proposal for a national convention on the European Union is discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u84	V.E.G. President. I'd like to respond to a word or two. paritaprevir Arnar Þór Jónsson. I don't think I'm speaking of the legislature or the High Council by pointing out the good experience we have in the EEA. Of course, it is true, as the senator points out, that in, perhaps not so long ago, but in the past century, we have had close cooperation with many countries, and in many ways there are laws based on the same model and laws of neighboring countries. But when it comes to litigation, such as consumer protection and environment, in fact, work markets too, which is a case that I know quite reasonably well, there are just too many examples of the past few decades that we have actually received reforms and compensations that I have not been aware of or have been given special emphasis here in other ways. Of course, it is not that everything that comes from Brussels is good. It's not like that. But this cooperation has brought us both prosperity and prosperity, as well as the compensation I consider to be of great value. In fact, I believe that it is not particularly desirable to be in the passenger seat in this cooperation. That's why I'd just as much like us to sit at the table and participate in the decision-making. But that's where we're at. I'm expecting a senator to disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to underscore that I'm no monopoly in this rather than any other. I want to be a balanced spokesman. I don't want to be a general guide to Iceland's position within this cooperation, but I just want to stress that I can agree with that. A senator that much good has come out of this cooperation or this part of the EEA and the EEA Convention. However, it is worth keeping very close in mind the position of the small countries within this cooperation and that the speed towards the Union has increased, especially since the elimination of the British from its cooperation, so there is some concern to see on the European Union's journey. Therefore, I believe that those sitting at the Allied Assembly of Iceland have their eyes open, and we are ready to step on the brakes when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u86	V.E.G. President. The European Union, of course, is developing and has undergone significant changes, the growing number of countries, and the major change may have been when Eastern European countries became involved in the European Union. In the Union, of course, these tensions between evolution and the state of state, federalism, for which France and Germany have long spoken, as well as the states of the North, the Baltic States, that I know, and other countries who want to have a strong cooperation but not to blend together and become an allied European states. In this lump, the discussion is often very informative and interesting, and my political opinion is that it should not become part of the European Union, it is not for the benefit of the European Union or its member countries. And because the senator mentioned the status of small countries, it is once such that the European Union's details are quite good. Of course, larger countries have more manpower and, so to speak, than the smaller countries in the European Union sit at the table, they choose their assignments better and perhaps with greater zeal than the big countries do, but they are also in charge of the European Union, such as. You can see now, I think Malta is in charge. They have the same value as the big countries when it comes to settling issues, e.g. In the Council of Ministers and elsewhere, and I think it matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u87	A respectable president. For this reason, I want to emphasize a very important point, and I hope the people here are aware of it. A discussion of such points as this on the subject of laws that should apply to the entire population in the country is very important and is based on the basic idea that the law will exist in human society and spring from the root of society, not coming down like a swarm of people. Here are two basic ideas, because we're talking about the European Union: it's some kind of democracy concept of the law where the law becomes a conspiracy that grows below and up, which is then democratic in the spirit of the Chairman of the Chairmans to form and more in the spirit of the Anglo - Saxon court, and in the spirit of the two states as a king. A senator mentioned, the French and the Germans, where laws come from time to time from controlled power down to the common people who have nothing to say about it. In other words, my objection to the situation in Iceland, which I believe is quite serious, a nation whose position has nothing to say about how the laws of this nation apply to the whole nation, and cannot be changed and cannot be excluded - the situation of such a nation is truly a concern for long and shorter time. Finally, I want to cast great doubt on what was presented in the case. A senator that already has a small state and when it comes to saying something about where the line is in big trouble. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that the European Union has given all the power to the major Member States.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u88	V.E.G. President. I may only suggest that I speak here as a proud Icelander when I find that Icelanders have very little to do with legislation as this in the field of decision-making itself. Such concerns can be brought about withoutlittleing the Icelandic legislature Council. The fact is, Iceland does not have a voice that is relevant to Brussels, Strasbourg, and in the surveillance institutions that monitor the implementation of relevant legislation. We're not just talking about having access to the Three Laws. The legislation has just so much to bring into Icelandic society because our involvement in the EEA includes monitoring. If we were a member of the European Union, we would have the European Court of Justice. We would have Ministers, we would have had X-many senators at the European Parliament. I think it's a better situation than having nobody there today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her part in this discussion. I respect what was said here, and I can understand that on the papers this looks good, or better, at least, to have a representative at this council, etc. But I got it. To study the procedure, a senator is silent and does not make a picture together. On the one hand, the language on how this works; on the other hand, it is the praxize, i.e. The science and the implementation. It's crystal clear, it seems to me, that there's a little bit weaker, in fact, than these statements anyway. A senator indicates.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u90	President. I thank the Councilman of the Southwestern District for helpful tips on finding out. I can make him happy by reviewing that he once taught me European rights during my first year of the U.S. School of Law and offering him a warm welcome. I'm telling you, this is a case of ideals and opinions. We know we're not going to figure this out tonight. Still, we are going to be careful that a large conquistador of Iceland is not respected here at the conference hall tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04.u91	A respectable president. In this context, I would like to only point out that the United Kingdom did not take its place within the European Union, since they simply thought that their voice did not sound clearly clear enough, and their effect was not sufficiently evident within these large conglomerations. As a result, I feel that we are in Iceland's place. I encourage the senator to fight for his ideals. Our ideals are of utmost importance, but we must not let them impress us so that we make an unrealistic assessment of our situation in the real world.
