ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u1	On Friday, May 27, a letter from the 10th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, says that he will be absent in the near future. On that day, a deputy of Pirata's district list, Linya Runn Taha Karim, took up residence at the General Assembly 1. A letter has also been received from the 10th. That's the north side. "Jódís Skúladóttir's daughter, "that she can't attend next week. Today, then, a second lipman on the left side list receives an offer of green in the district of Kári Gautason, while 1st aristocrat on the list has announced ahead of time. In the past, Linya Run Rún Karim and Kári Gautason have taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u2	The President has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give written answers to inquiries. 488, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, and on the icicle. 897, on the effects of the altered environment, from the Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. A letter has also been received from a health minister asking for every request in order to give written answers to such requests. Ninety-six, about how we've been out of operation for too long a waiting period, from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and on the icicle. 724, on medical treatment abroad due to a long waiting period in the country, from Hildur Sverrisdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Food Minister, Minister of Culture and Business, Education and Children's Affairs and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u4	Madam President. Many refugees are now waiting between hope and fear, watching messages between individual ministers. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs has expressed disagreements with policy and methods at the highest level. Minister of Justice, which is certainly good, but I want to know what really means. Prime Minister Class, VG, cannot compromise the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court. Social Affairs as well as the responsibility for the equipment and conditions of refugees in this country, and there are now much better things to do. The following week, the newspaper of the press interviewed a Ukrainian woman who made a terrible comment about her family's situation. She was shamed to move to Ásb bridge, whose parents were sent to Bifrost. You will not fail to be a little ashamed of being an Icelander to read about the welcome this Ukrainian family from a war - torn country. The woman describes the unannounced attitude of the Foreign Institute of Iceland and tells of how her family did not get sheets, no kitchen items, no pots, no pans, and one glass for sharing, as well as a long service. Of course, refugees from other parts of the world would hardly be expected to come to a greater degree than the one described here. Madam President. I'm well aware that the highest. Ministers cannot themselves provide minimum firehouse equipment. But I ask, is it the highest? Did not the prime minister agree with me that it is possible to do better than this? Does she not agree that governments play a tone with people who are looking here? And finally, it's the highest. Prime Minister agrees with the opposition of the social minister to the Minister of Justice for a massive evacuation of people from here. And if so, does any job follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, which was both for the specific and for the general. Because of what? Of course, a senator asks about my movement. Of course, since there has been a significant increase in the number of people who have been protected in this country since the end of the present government of 2017. If we just take the numbers since then, there have been almost 3,400 individuals being protected here in Iceland. This can also be illustrated by international comparisons. When we compare how many people we welcome here in Iceland to form other northern countries, I think we can prove that we Icelanders are standing up to receive more than we have ever done. On the other hand, because of what. A senator also asks about the specificity, no doubt he can do better in this regard. I also read this interview that has been discussed by the Foreign Institute. I'd like to say that I'm very sorry to hear about the experiences of this family mentioned in the newspaper this weekend. I feel absolutely clear that we should take it seriously when it comes to such suggestions. It has been decided that both a team of workers and a control team for the arrival of refugees from Ukraine will visit these home-set resources to ensure that appropriate fixes were made, which were identified as having to be made in the Red Cross assessment since 18th of May. Of course, it is only natural for us to work hard to improve the reception and to improve the quality of the people. There are many challenges, but there is a great willingness to solve them. So I'd like to say yes, we've been accepting more. Is it possible to do better? Surely we should take it seriously when we read such accounts and have responded in this way. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator then asks about the subject that has been most under discussion, and I have to come to that in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u6	Madam President. There is a very special situation in the world. There is war in many parts of Syria, such as. Nevertheless, we do see that for some reason, people from individual lands have a convenient way in here, from Venezuela, e.g. for Syria. I'd like to ask you how many comets we've invited here to the country. I think last year they were only 34. V.E.G. The prime minister has spoken in these last days about the lack of a full - scale conference in refugee affairs. It has been the prime minister of this government for the past five years. And where is that overall dating? I know, however, that in the fall of 2017, she, along with the heads of all classes at the council, except for an independent party, helped sign a document on how the review and the overall convention of these objects would be scheduled. But what happens? V.E.G. The prime minister forms in a dual government in which the Justice Minister of the Independence Party is in full control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u7	Madam President. Then we'll find out about the overall policy. Now it is so in Iceland, and I'm pointing out that in recent years a large number of people have been protected internationally. I can also point out that immigrants are large. The percentage of foreigners is high to 20% in Iceland and their sector is high. There are other challenges, however, and I can mention to form the education of those who come here. We need to think much more about these matters, and that's what I've been calling on in a talk about the overall convention, that we're not just looking at the security system that's very important, but that we're also discussing the affairs of foreigners in general. In a government contract, there is a particular discussion of the interaction between employment and living secrets, and I want to say this here that there certainly would have been more to do in those matters before. But I strongly suggest that the Department of Social Affairs and Justice is working together as well as the workforcers of the labour market and other university officials, to set up a job that pays to allow us here to apply for more people, as I have determined to read people's comments that if we want to do a great deal with the labour market parties, it will be settled in agreement and that we will contribute to the policy that we are not just accepting more people but that we are doing it well and in good conditions for all of those who come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u8	A respectable president. ▪ In a fishing field, a deep feeling of injustice is common among the common people. So says an article from the highest. A seaman minister that shows up this morning and that's all they say. It refers to the compression of fishing warrants and to the miscalculation of the profit of this common resource of the nation. Now I want to pick up this thread and ask the highest. A minister in particular what she will do exactly in this conglomeration she brings up. We, together with other groups, are repeatedly calling for a report on possession of the 20 largest commercial development companies. So the interest of a former ocean leader was zero. Of course, there is a need to examine some evidence of how the investments in fishing companies have increased, in line with the greatly improved personal status of these past few years, and we are well aware that they have begun to invest well in Icelandic employment all over the world. The understatement is also dangerous in this context. I want to point the top. A minister of prime radios, which are repeatedly submitted year after year, has not received discussions that take up exactly what is open to transparency, deal with how we trust the market, and how we try to promote contracts that are crucial when it comes to ensuring the resources in the sea. I want to point the highest. A minister should have good experience in turning to the government's opposition as Minister of Health in the last terms of basic Princes, such as the case of pregnancy rupture and female freedoms during the past year because the independent party could not support it all the way. The request to the minister is, shall we say, the highest. To counteract the very changes we need, a minister consults the government's opposition so that we can touch them, including the changes we need. in this profound sense of injustice among the common people in the fishing world? [[The president calls.]] Very much. To deal with the injustices in the sea, a minister consults the government's opposition? [[The president calls.]] We're ready. Is there a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's inquiry and thanks for the interest it shows here, okay? A senator and chairman of the Archipelago. This great convergence of trajectory. A senator here brings up an issue that is part of the global integration of wealth, probably one of the main reasons why there is a debate about the seabed and the system we've developed to control fish fishing. I think we have to do a lot better in digging about that stuff so that they're on the table. It's going to be. We're not exactly at the beginning of it. We have a lot of information. However, there is a lesion in this system that is not obvious about the compression and its effect. Not to be overlooked is the fact that it was necessary to clarify Article 13. improve the control of fish so that compression is easier monitored. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the methodology that I am interested in using in these matters. It is said with all sincerity that I believe that this is the big issue that we cannot allow ourselves to approach it in a way that is about who is in the government and who is in a position of government. For this reason, I am now, and will account for that order tomorrow, to put together on the other hand a major consultation committee with the arrival of all members of the body and the main stakeholders, but also the experts who do not have a direct category of political connections to make special use of their social connections, contact with the resources, opportunities there and other viewpoints. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I expect to have a good partnership with a council of two. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u10	A respectable president. Our progress is that we have a minister who is prepared to actually go into the convergence of Icelandic fishing roads. It wasn't the last four years, in the last term, so it's an improvement. The other is that we should not be simple about this. I know it's on the way, but I'd like to point out that these are 27 individuals. In the end, it's coming into the Senate Hall. We need to take a political stand on certain issues, including those involved. for temporary contracts. My experience during the last term is through the Constitution work that there was always one group that stopped that matter, one category. The advance team and the left green are in agreement with time, but the Independence Party is not. And when we get to these big prince issues, we're here at the council to take a stand for them. Therefore, I'd like to stress that yes, restoration is certainly ready to take in the time-settling agreements, take part in compression, increase transparency in the seaside. All of this is ahead of us. We have all these matters year after year for the council. But if a minister is willing to approach us here at the council, for the government opposition, just to force matters against the will of the Independence Party, as it were. in the pregnancy crisis case where the leadership of the Independence Party voted against a government case? We are willing to support the government in this, support the minister of this, and I want a clear answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's support for matters that have not been presented, so I expect that all of them are now warning of what they are. A senator says with the experience she has in doing so. Of course, it is now important to learn from all these efforts that have been made to make more peace over the years, and they have been quite different. Some have worked, but not enough. In 2012, the newcomer, which has been of great importance, we set for fishing back then. Hv. A senator then in a position of government paid them votes against hunting fees. We've established a beach fishing system, etc, so we've taken some important steps. It also counts that we are meeting the changes in the way we work, so we are faced in a way that is far too much of a pack of pieces. And that's why it's very important that we get together to create a good environment for people who earn their livelihood by using land and sea resources. [[The president calls.]] And including these, fairness purposes. A senator mentions and rotates, including For a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u12	A respectable president. Studying can be a fundamental part of life, the key to learning, learning, and learning evolution for each individual. What status is there on the reading skills of children and young people in Iceland? Research shows that 39% of children after 2nd grade school in Reykjavík in 2019 are not studying for their benefit. We don't have information from other societies. Research shows that 38% of 15 - year - olds are not achieving basic skills in reading and mathematics (UNESCO 2020) and that 34% of boys and 19% of girls do not read for their ten - year high school benefit (PISA survey 2018). Research shows that 15 - year - old children of Norwegian and Danish immigrants, according to PIIA study 2018, score more on reading sense than Icelandic boys of the same age as teenagers in Southnes, Western and Northern Western Western West. Research shows that 92.5% of immigrants have red and yellow light for Icelandic, which may not be Icelandic. This is the report of the internal revision of Reykjavík from 2018. Studies show that 10.8% of 19 - year - olds were not studying or working in 2020, according to the ASI report. It's a terrible situation. These figures speak for themselves about the reading skills of children and young people. The community debate on this enormously important matter is little or no. The education issues of children and young people are the responsibility of the Children's Education Minister within the Iceland Board of Management under Presidential decision, including the Board of Education, the Board of Education, the Board of Education, and the responsibility to read and teach in the country. As the chief head of education in the country's shelter of the Generals. Children and Education Ministers are responsible for the reading skills of children and young people. There's no one else. [[The president calls.]] My question to the highest. Child and educational minister is this: What is being done to deal with this terrible situation of children and young people in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] What is he doing today, and what will he do in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, and he worries about what. A senator of the statistics he traced in his language. Just to watch only what the situation is today and a little back, my predecessor laid, the highest. former minister of education and culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir, put much emphasis on these issues when it came to the increased publishing of children's books, when it came to experimental projects such as the spark of the Western Islands, which I know to do. A senator knows, and he knows other work related to Icelandic reading skills and other activities related to the school system. We are continuing to carry out that assignment fully, and it's exciting to watch for the Western Islands project. Since then, and began to happen, I think with some force in the last four years, that there is an increased level of government access to school systems, and a conversation of the state with local societies, and with the teachers society about how to be more supportive of the elementary school system. It's been way too long with the people that the state may not have too much time to do this. We're actually following it right now and planning to do it, and we're talking about it, both with the Teacher Union and the Union, how we can increasingly help the school system through school services to support students, but also with the teachers and staff in the school community. Thus, it may not be possible to say that there is one solution that we are proclaiming into the future. Rather, we may simply have a close partnership between state, rural society, and school systems aimed at building on the foundation that will have been laid in the past few years. This is an important matter of interest, and I agree with it. A senator's concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. He even said. that these matters were not too much of a matter for the State. I think that's the problem. The problem is that the State, the Allied Assembly of the Parliament and Ministers, did not govern these matters adequately. The secretary has the initiative required in this case, and it is quite clear that when these numbers speak their own language, i.e. That the situation is terrible, it's the minister's responsibility, there's no one else responsible for it. No one else in the community is responsible for this. The responsibility of the Minister of Education and the education of children is with him, as directed by the General. That's how it is. I can illustrate how other countries have responded. It was called a 2006 Rose report, which was published in Britain, and as a result, the British Parliament passed a law on which to teach children how to read, which language method to use. The same was done in France back then. These are two major civilizations in Europe. In the Western Islands, we have a project, the spark, which is used the internationally approved reading method to be used directly for study. The question: Is the minister willing to put it in the syllabus so that there will be one approved reading method in the country, which is not today? It appears to be a home-made hook that is currently in progress, but not a standard method.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u15	A respectable president. We can agree on that, me and what. A senator, that I don't think the state in general was dividing himself - or maybe it shouldn't be used, but it's not been enough cooperation between state and country when it comes to elementary schools and actually high school issues. What I learn next is that this quarter of the century that has passed since the school was taken over - that in the first few years thereafter, it was just a general rule that we shouldn't interfere with this, the government. I think it's quite called by now, and that's what we're working on. Then I'd like to say that when it comes to the law on how to read, they're running a test project in the Western Islands that I think is very sensible. However, there is a difference of opinion as to whether this method or another is better. I'm not going to stand here on the General's deliveries and pretend to be an expert on that matter. However, we'd like to observe this experiment. It's exciting, and it was initiated in cooperation with the State, the local community and experts, both domestic and foreign, and scientific community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It will be exciting to follow along and see what decisions will be made thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u16	Madam President. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister introduced the present government at a press conference at Kjarval Stations said that the plot's review showed a firm willingness to have the Board of Directors cooperated as a whole. It gave me hope that the many different views that exist in the administration home would be added to the government rather than to the fact that ministers would be dictators in their advisers, as has been the case for so long. It would be in the spirit of the conversation and reconciliation politics that the government claims they want to practice. However, one has arrived during the day, especially in the presence of foreigners, and two advisers have been allowed to make public efforts in the media, where ministers are either lying or accused of lying. V.E.G. Prime Minister has talked about the importance of orderliness and the importance of developing a comprehensive policy in this case, making it sound as if there were no such policies. On the contrary, the government policy of foreigners has appeared four times in a bill that has been blessedly stopped three times and will hopefully be stopped four times, while a recent bill has been discussed for 13 hours and 15 minutes in a Senate hall since it was submitted in 2020. The highest approved agreement. Isn't this bill the prime minister four times out of the government? Isn't this bill just the policy the prime minister claims to call for? You see, I can't see better than the highest dream date. prime minister in foreign affairs is available. Otherwise, the government it doesn't lead would have approved this bill four times. Stands at the top. The prime minister of his own government's policy in foreign affairs, and he intends to give it the highest power. Only Ministers of Justice after handling these matters without any interference between her and her other fine ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u17	Madam President. It has already been asked what is meant when I call for a full policy conference on the affairs of foreigners, and I want to thank you. A senator for putting that matter on the program here. In my knowledge, it was a good thing when the Allied Council of Iceland adopted a law regarding the 2016 foreigners who then went into effect 2017. They were accepted in an incredibly broad solid solidarity, not complete solidarity, but amazingly broad solidarity. I remember that we were discussing the magnitude of our success, that we were not turning these matters into holes, as we have seen in other nations. Since then, however, we have come to realize that we are not content with the outworking of their laws and their interpretations of laws. My opinion is that the law itself still works well. It is my opinion that the changes made to make in terms of deadlines, especially in children's affairs, and that the deadlines are reduced to a higher priority for children and their families when it comes to taking their case for treatment have been reasonable. But my opinion is that this legislation should have been followed by a definite agreement on vision and policy in the affairs of foreigners. That may well be the problem. Senators disagree with me, but I allow me to point out the fact that on the other hand we welcome a considerable number of people who are being protected here. I used to say numbers earlier that I'm going to warn them that they're probably from the beginning of 2017 but not from the beginning of my last term, just so that everything is kept in place. We also have a large number of non - refugees, people who come and work here. I feel that we as a government system - and I can take my responsibility as prime minister - are working well together in ensuring the standard of living and the quality of life of all those coming here, whether for our own protection systems or for opportunities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the policy I'd like to see in a parapolitic discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u18	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Opportunity. It mentions that the alien law was adopted in 2016 and that it was a delight to have a law to do so. But what is the purpose of accepting these laws that were approved in great solidarity if we have a government that interprets the laws to those who are looking here? But then there is the point and the question that I did not answer in my first talk: The answer is the highest. The prime minister behind his own party in this category, or is it behind the policy of the Independence Party of this issue? It's the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers, pleased with the policies established by her government in foreign affairs and reflected in the repeated legal adjustments proposed and rejected and tried to get approved for the fourth time? Because I can't see better than VG's policy in foreign and refugee matters, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u19	Madam President. I just want to say there are three categories in the government, and they don't have the same foreign policy, and, of course, I'm on my way to foreigners. However, it is the responsibility of all those on the board of governments to find solutions, even when the government classes are not completely in agreement. It's just the nature of sitting in the government, that I'm not talking about leading a government. But because of him. A senator asks about policy I just want to finish what I said here about it. I believe it is very important that we take up a discussion, as I mentioned earlier in answer to the question of why. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, including It's a business-and-mate. There's two departments working together. Hv. A member of the council mentioned a plot of cooperation in his first question. While it may often be extremely difficult for the various units of the government to work together, this large group of subjects certainly deserves not only the two Ministry but all the Ministry of Education and the Ministry to help ensure complete policy in the affairs of foreigners whom we as a community have not developed. I can take it to heart that the overall policy wasn't developed during the last term, it might have been better. [[The president calls.]] But the task now is to complete these policies, so we can be truly proud of what we are doing, many of which are good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But in some things, there is definitely a need to be reformed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u20	V.E.G. President. The article by Dr. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus. A senator, of the taxation of special property that appeared in the Morning Press last week, drew a lot of deserved attention. In this article, Ólafur notes that taxation of special property means taxing money as if it were a income, an inherited property, and the protection of demands. The taxation of these assets is based on three stages of income taxation. Investors carry 22% capital tax. Excessive taxation is taking place near the property of older citizens, while the special savings is released after the age of 60. Ólafur notices in his article that taxpayers are discriminated against because they fall from income to three categories, and he adds to the fourth, in view of the first purchase of apartments and pay no taxes to a certain degree. This discrimination will be Ólafur excuse for asking in its article, by permission of the president, whether the Constitution's equal rule is applicable only at times. On this occasion, I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Prime Minister on the minister's view of the views that have been attributed here; over taxation in view of the fact that income is an income that is not as well as a difference between the paying person. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the part of Ólafur's article showing that tax charges generally do not produce tax requirements later and are given a clear example in this article. The exception appears to be older citizens of 60 years of age and older who have been assigned special savings to the elderly to meet unexpected events, depending on what other needs are involved. Some would think that they had come behind them with the extreme taxation that they really saw. What is the highest response. the prime minister to these viewpoints?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u21	Madam President. Now I am not so fortunate that I have read the article of my dear friend Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, when it appeared so that I have to listen to the rephrase of a man. A senator in this article. I hear, however, that in this case, he specifically mentions the special savings as well as the fact that certain tax-free jobs are allowed, not on other tasks, and whether they conflict with an equal rule. It may be difficult to draw that conclusion, but I would like to mention what was presented in the recent opinion of the International Cash Fund on the provision of housing support, of which the special savings is of course part, as it is suggested that this should be considered, i.e. being able to reserve special property savings on mortgages, i.e. based on the need to consider whether this is the best way to provide for government housing. It sounds like you're rephraseing a man. A senator is, in turn, looking for a tax payment on other factors of special interest rather than going the other way. I allow me to say this in view of the fact that I have not read the article that there is always every reason to look into such factors when they have been introduced temporarily, as it was done at the time, and to consider them, especially from the indications that the amount of housing is going to be reimbursed as a whole so that he can get the most benefit where he needs it most. That's what I think maybe is a major project. In turn, in terms of taxation, I'm natural to that opinion, and can only use the opportunity to reciprocate it, that a righteous tax system is about that most people have a relative share of the least. I feel that it should be the general line, whether it is capital pay or pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Ministers for their answers as far as they could and challenge her to read the wonderful article of Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson. In this article, he highlights a fault on tax control when it comes to taxing special savings, overpaying, and discrimination between taxes across an equal rule. This is not, as Ólafur writes in his article, to the tax but to the government in view of a law on income taxes. So I ask the minister, who may be able to answer better after she has read this fine article, "What is the highest plan? " A minister to address this serious misdemeanor in the taxation of special property savings in which people 60 years of age and older appear to be highly revered on an unregistered basis? What's the plan? Ministers to improve chess and to reduce taxation of special property as stock in a natural way that harmonizes with the views of righteous and fair taxation of Icelandic tax laws on the different tax treatments and possessions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u23	Mr. President. As I mentioned in the previous answer, the special savings has actually been used to support special groups, and this is especially the case with younger people who use it as housing support. And as I pointed out in my first response, it is pointed out in the latest assessment of the International Cash Fund that there is a reason to watch housing support. This is actually the same conclusion coming from a new government housing group that points out that this system needs to be revised. That's what I'm talking about. A senator says that the evidence for this is certainly different. Therefore, I don't think this would conflict with the 90th rule, since there are particularly younger groups being supported in order to reach their own housing. The question is, Is this the most efficient way, as noted, and whether we need not consider it in connection with other housing support? But I'll take the sharpening of it. A senator and I read the article so that the next time we discuss these matters, I have better answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u24	A respectable president. On the decision of the current health minister from November 7, 2018, two new clinics will be opened at Akureyri. It's a long time period of delayed structure. Health care at Akureyri is well over 20,000 people who share one health care facility with them. So how happy we are that we will finally have two clinics in Akureyri! One will be new to the camp area on Thorn Street and the other to rebuild a home in the Sunnanhide. But I might like to wait while projects have not yet begun the new building. In many cases, it has been difficult to obtain experts, whether medical or other specialists in the medical sector, to work in the country. As a result of increasing options for management of health - care practices, it is more likely that family doctors will need to be employed in Akureyri, making their work environment as varied and attractive as possible. Today, private health care services have brought joy and confidence in users more than public health care centers. However, all private clinics in the country are located in the capital area and have been present in this development. High-level party. A health minister has spoken for a so - called mixed way in providing health care and is ideal for such a route, not only to get more experts to work in the north but also to improve the services and rightness of user care. And now it's only time for the question: Has the highest. A health minister intending to run a business for one of the clinics to open in Akureyri?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir for taking this matter on a program involving health care at Akureyri. First, I want to say the word with the question. A senator, however, rejoices that this process has come into play. You're absolutely right. A senator says that the health care of Akureyri, where she has been in a house in Hafnar Street, has reached her age and the need to improve there. They've advertised a place under the clinic and are then to build new health care facilities for Akureyri in the South, the way the trade is. It is permitted to build a two - story building. That structure is a treasure. In fact, there is some disagreement as to whether to place a parking lot under the house that was not planned at the time of initial observation, but we resolve it. It takes a further conversation that has been between town and state property and the Ministry. Whether it's a private health care or not, that's a good option. This is just at the point where there has been no decision yet. Because of what? A senator introduced the design problem, so it's a two-way case. It is always the concern of those who run health care for losing a lot of men. In fact, we are always competing for the same limited human resources. But it may well be a reasonable model and may be suitable in Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] I can't rule it out. That conversation is just starting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I think there's a lot of opportunity to get another person to the table and start looking at it. I would like to encourage the health minister to hide health care insurance to request out medical care at Akureyri. As I said in my earlier talk, the country has been deprived of the development of the capital area. There are other areas to be considered by the health minister, especially the Southnes, where there has been a clear call for improved services and a more varied sector. So it is a project worth examining for our human resources in the health sector of the country. It does not have to bite when there is a pleasant and well - working environment. So I reiterate my question: Will a health minister employ a more broad range of health care plans in the whole country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u27	I'd like to thank you for that. A senator for this request for private health care. You're right. A senator comes on, that private health care has given him good attention here in the capital area, and then I prefer to refer to the observations that shed light on satisfaction, really joy with the ministry. I'd like to say, too, that public health care is very good in comparison with institutions. Because of what? A senator enters this business plans and other places, and we agree with the Southnes Medical Center and, in agreement with the National Institute of Health, HSS. We have come to the point where it may be wise to invite that business out. However, this must be done in consultation with local health institutions. I think it's the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-30.u28	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize any law in connection with the contribution of pensions to the government's support of the biographies of the labour market agreements since April 2019. A bill with the same objective was first submitted to the 151th legislature but due to differences in viewpoints presented in the Senate reviews, the Economic and Business Committee referred again to the government for further consideration and consultation with the management of the bill. The present bill is presented as a reexamination of a previous bill in which different viewpoints have been endeavored. Thus, the subject of this bill is in part different from what was put forward last year, although the goals intended are still the same. I'm going to allow myself, with reference to this background, to review specific suggestions in this matter, which include changes from the introduction of the subject at the council. It's the very nature of the problem that I'm involved in some extraordinary adjustment proposals. But if we talk about this just because of the changes the bill involves, then it's first a change in the commitment of pensions and pension funds. First, it is suggested that the minimum pay for a pension fund be increased from 12% to 15.5% of the population strain, as has been negotiated in the vast majority of labour agreements. Second, the average number of rights to monthly pensions is suggested to increase from 1.4% per year to 1.8% per year from the tax paid by over 40 years' pay period. Third, there is a warrant for a pension fund to state in its approval that a cashier can make up a whole or in part the increase of the minimum wage for the specified property. Using this source, the average level of rights declines from 1.8% per year to up to 1.4% per year. Reassigned on specified special property may begin at least when a source of funds has been reached. 62 years old. Remuneration should be distributed at equal monthly rates from a cash company wishing to obtain a specified special property paid out until the age of 67. At the death of a fundmate, the property falls to an heir. Fourth, it is suggested that the pension fund, which has determined the minimum insurance protection, should be spent in part for the raising of the pension rights of its own and part of its share. 3 mg Section 4. The law, if allowed to keep the rest of the arrangements. Thus, the fund guarantees a minimum protection of 1.4% per year of the payable tax stock, as is the case with a provision for the specified special property. Fifth, it is suggested that pension funds and stakeholders be made obliged to send the tax ablation of a provision for the pension price of each individual at the end of each year. This information will help to explain how pension costs are divided where the law allows them to set aside the cost of the pay so that, in part, it is devoted to the establishment of biofuel rights in partnerships and in part to the creation of the pension rights in a special property. Then there is a bill in the bill of deposit and stakeholders to specify the subsidies of the sector's share and the share of the special property created on the basis of a non-intribution fee. Finally, it is suggested that while in a collective contract, about 12% of pay for a pension fund is permitted to aim at a minimum rate of 12%, until people meet for a change in the ratio in the corresponding collective agreement. The minimum tax rate thereafter should be 15.5%. Then I'm going to start changing the support law to buy at the first apartment. The proposal to change the law is mainly to turn to tax-free persons's authority to use the specified special property to buy at the first residence. It would be in addition to the provision of additional special interest fees; the source will not be fully used by the patient with the additional tax. It is also suggested that individuals who have not been registered owners for five years to an apartment building, until the time of the transfer of taxation application, be allowed to make use of the same special provisions as the buyers of the first apartment. The key changes in the social security and social security laws of the elderly are the change in pension payments and payments from the social security system so that all pensions, other than additional pensions, are reduced to the decision of pension in terms of social security. That unchanged law would maintain the inconsistencies that have existed since 2008 between funds. I consider this latter change of justice a great matter that is necessary to be discussed at the council and to be fulfilled. This simply has to do with making sure that there is some type of savings that does not result in the removal of rights in the social security system, other than what we have called secondary pensions. It is believed that this, as in a bill report, would be about 1 billion dollars. every year. This would be changed to the future, and I believe this is important and in every way a very reasonable matter. The bill also suggests that secondary changes in income taxation laws relating to the provision of a designated special property to buy the first apartment should be explained itself. I said before, I'd go over the changes only since the bill was before, and it might be particularly worth saying that we're here discussing that in the law the warrant is being passed because of the special property. That's a change. It is a significant change that leaves a measure of freedom for those who are at stake to adopt it in their approved condition. Second, I would like to mention in particular the pension funds that have set the minimum limit of insurance protection so that pay is spent in part to create rights, as mentioned earlier, and, in part, in partnerships, will be allowed to continue the rest of the arrangement. This is a change that follows a review process and further consultation, perhaps leading to the fact that the main purpose of this matter was not to change such an arrangement. That wasn't the main purpose. The main purpose was to establish a law change that opened up the specified special property, and in this bill, we are then giving the specified property a particular position, especially of apartment purchases. There was a key point. But when we started building the bill after we had consulted the people, we discovered all kinds of contact articles with other aspects of our pension system, which were called after the change, but were in themselves, as I looked at it from the beginning, not part of our basic thoughts from the beginning. All this work may have just helped us to understand the urgency of this overall review, which could be said to have been taking place in the second decade. It was set out in common to take a full course on the pension system and to receive suggestions from the work we have partly accepted into the law. But then, it's about Eight years, no, I guess it's more correct to say six years, and still stand a lot of things out of which we need to start taking a seat together again. These are basic factors that are important for us to set aside time to examine. There are, for example. Different perspectives on whether we have additional pension savings coming close to having almost over insurance in our system and if it is that people with a full-time job age on the market who are setting aside the special savings policy, this additional pension plan I'm referring to, have brought in by the possibility of 100% of their average intelligence into pension rights, I think it merits a serious debate about whether or not we're not going through a large amount of freedom to determine what kind of savings is involved. That's the kind of basic thing that I think it's necessary to go over well. We've been making changes over the past few years that I'm not going to trace here, but I'd still like to mention backtraced state funds. This bill here is part of that journey in the sense that here we are trying to level the pension rights rights between markets. Similarly, by the end of the last year, changes were made in the way of life, and we have been confronting unfunded pension bonds, making more clear to them now in public accounts. We've paid a considerable amount of money on unfunded Penitentiary and the changed situation, especially with the A Company and the B Division, as it were. We've been spending 10 billion a year in an enormous commitment to the B department because we don't want to do anything about it because we want to do the least of our problems with the future generation. As you may see as soon as you go outside the subject of your bill, this field of subjects is in so much discussion and important that I think I'll be stopped here. I'm going to say, though, that our overall system is quite strong and was recently placed first in an international indicator test between different pension systems, which must have been considered a very good conclusion for comparing the Icelandic pension fund with other systems elsewhere. We can't afford to wait to change the system because the nation is growing older and it will gradually test the strength of the system more and more. We then have other primes at the council, such as on investment clearances submitted to this council and are also looked forward to supporting the system in the future. But we're here with a few adjustments from a previous bill that I believe is just and necessary. So I'm specifically referring to the fact that when it was a point that in itself was not part of the basic concept of the specified special property, I've decided to make changes in the direction of leaving such factors. Another example I could have mentioned here is what I traced earlier about 12%. It was never the idea of the specified special property and the contracts we call the biographies to cover that point specifically. These are the sailors, those who accept their rights from contracts with the development and, in part, apply such special views about the communal system all and righting in that work rights relationship. Although it may be said, "Hey, why wasn't the trip used to finish it too? ' it was just never the idea behind the specified special property as it was agreed to take care of things like this. That is why, as in the early bill, we keep it in place that it is up to the parties to make this change and to bring the minimum fee to 15.5% then, from then on. It's hard to see how we could in itself have brought up such professional rights to 15.5%, just with a single pen dash in the law, without feeling that it's just a remuneration and should be taken into account in their further labour agreements. I stopped to explain the changes and put this matter in context of bigger green work that I believe is inevitable now starting. As I've been tracking them, it's clear to everyone, including. of previous efforts to establish this contract on the stated special property in law, that this is a matter of opinion. It contains e.g. Opinions between the official part and the general part could not be settled on the subject of this bill at the time. I've been working on the case in the meantime, and we've been working on a lot of work to analyze each and every bit of it, and it's come back now, and it's changed since the point of consultation. So this bill is the product of a great consultation, and we have three-way presentation of the bill. I mean, all this work has led to our meeting many indications. I'm sure there will still be comments, but I have chosen that angle or have chosen this approach regarding the comments I still hear, simply asking this question: Is the point being critical part of what we were talking about in the biography interview or is there a list of other changes related to it in itself? So why don't we just take these things into the overall review and finish this with the specified item? A respectable president. I suggest that this be said that the case will be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and then to the 2nd. after this discussion.
