ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u1	A respectable president. Since the President has shown great sharpness and has been prepared to rethink his decision, and since the president and the councilmen have decided to get together and discuss the matter, I think it is best that we let this matter continue rapidly and say no more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u2	President. I missed the discussion because of illness, so I'm so glad she's still going on, I'm lucky. I'm sure there's nothing to it. These amendments are a little interesting in that this is not an amount of money, just a provision of funds and financial resources between recruitment and institutions. After all, the Internet change is zero, no more financing. This is because of changing the Council of Government, the government's focus on breaking down the invisible walls of the administration that might be saving something, but does it not yet. There are no explanations on the extent of its magnitude, but we received an introduction on the implementation of funding in a budgeted committee last week from two stipulations, which covered a weakness in the implementation of budgets, i.e. Money clearances where there's no money. In some areas, too much money is actually available. If I start with social security, that's where 5 billion dollars are expected. leftover micro-enforcement payments on the 27th sector. As it says here, with the permission of a president, it is primarily due to the lower budgets of last year where there was a decrease in the number of disability and rehabilitation candidates. As a result, the beginning point of the year is 3 billion. K. Less than that. I think it's wrong. There should be billions less than that. Here we go, for example. leftover. It is interesting to consider this in the context of a long - term report and the change in policy that was made not long ago to put people on the responsion money first and to put them into use. Maybe this is exactly the effect of it. If so, that would be very positive. But there is no particular detail about what I find shocking, since this is something that should be classified as a maintenance project. Funds are often placed at a level of 2%, and they have been placed on social security too, which is very strange. But if that's the case, e.g. that the emphasis on rehabilitation can cause permanent disability to decrease, of course, is positive and is actually a maintenance procedure and should be marked as such but is not, which is interesting to itself. When it comes to funding, there are several conditions for seeking funds. It is specifically stated in the Constitution that there can be no payment unless there is a means to pay for it in financial or financial matters. What has been done, however, is that there have been frequent search for financial resources to come. I make a note of it in part. I understand that about these legal expenses, such as. Necessary insurance, after which there is a search for such financial resources. I totally understand. It's just a matter of duty to pay. It's good to know how this budget is developing because it can change from month to month, and suddenly there's a lot of people who don't get a job or lose a job, and it's a bit complicated for a government to always come running and ask for money out the year when it changes so quickly. On the other hand, the problem is predictable, not because it is simply an obligation to provide such funds, but because it is either a failure to plan or even a government decision in some cases. We have tips on the problem of the problem that had already been warned, e.g. the cost of NPA services could be 130 million. K. more than your authority to uphold the law on the increase of contracts. This was totally predictable. In fact, there was a change in financial proposal for this last time, if not also the budget, which was rejected. That's interesting. Same with budget for the psychiatric subsidies. It is a law that such services should be overreached. People's rights are a law to get that service, but for some reason their services have been suspended after the budget is complete. It's not done with unemployment insurance if the budget is finished, that's not said: We stop paying unemployment insurance. But this is done by subsidies of psychological services. This is done with the MPA agreements, despite the fact that the provisional legislation on that service is set out in the number of contracts to be paid. It's simply not given the legal rights to cover a lot of contracts. This we know, and even though we know this, and although it's predictable that there's a petition on the budget for these items later in the year, it's a little Spanish to me that we're handing out a budget right now where it's released. We know that there are certain weaknesses in the situation, but there is no way we react to the financial provisions here for payment but to be stored up until later. Meanwhile, the government is using resources that are not allowed for financial or financial aid. It is not enough that there is only a law that allows the others and this service to be rendered. I understand it should be that way, but it's not like that. But if that is how we act, should we not at least try to reflect it? We could either make it clear for like that. the law on unemployment insurance that the rights are there regardless of financial resources as well as the subsidies of psychological services or the number of NAPA contracts. In fact, it is something that the Senate is signing as a kind of budget. Or should we take care of them in the way that is expected in the current legal structure, in the constitution, that they are sought in advance? It's shocking that it's done this way because I have that feeling, about how the budget is done here, that sometimes certain funds are just released. It's only allowed to discuss certain legal resources in order to make it look like the government is better than it really is. Regular expectation of economic growth or how things are going in such a national setting is happening so that at the end of the year, income is more than expected. This is a common economic problem. There's been predictions of growth and overcasting in return. But this makes it possible that there is a temptation that is often spoken of in this context, not only to specify these documents that are known to be needed to be paid off. For example, there are no small amounts of medicine there. It was a warning about these matters of making donations last year. Still, there wasn't a warrant. But then the budget looks better when the year ends, and then it can be added and the result is the same as it was, in fact, at the beginning of the year, unless, in the process, it was never seen what real situation was compared to plans for which any of the budgets would be needed to fulfill the various laws that we have set here on people's rights, e.g. subsidies of psychology services and NPA contracts. I make those comments in the 1st. of financial contributions because I believe that the council should definitely get this information, just as bare as can be, about what real position there is on funds for various groups, e.g. NAPA contracts and the subsidies of psychological services, in order to provide financial resources for these legal rights. What we're doing here, accepting law, giving people rights. The authority of the administration cannot fail to enforce it. Part of it is to provide an assessment of the cost and the cost of these laws and to put it on a budget bill. If there is a schedule, it is simply a serious matter. This results in a loss of rights for people if they do what they do with the Psychological Service, in contrast to the unemployment insurance. If laws are not being carried out because the funds are limited, they are simply cheating on what the General decided. If the government is not prepared to enforce the laws established by the Council or the Senate or whatever it is in the government, simply put forth legal adjustments to change them in some way to make this more practical or to provide suggestions for other projects or such as perhaps to maintain the same rights as in other ways. However, it does not simply suggest that not all legal resources are needed to fulfill their rights. I think it's one of the biggest transparency problems at the Senate's payment on budgets at any time that we really have no idea how many of these laws we've been willing to accept here. Still, cost food is all over the law, and then somehow it disappears, it just vanishes. The successful law, the cost of 1.2 billion. I think there's already 800 million in cash from an equation fund or something like that, not 1.2 billion. Maybe it's somewhere else, but it wasn't permanent money, because I know best. So, all of this is really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, We need to evaluate, not just the influence of a management project, but the evaluations that are sustained. That is what monitoring the implementation of budgets is about, a continuing assessment of the cost of the law we have set. There's a social security law here. This is the estimated cost of their law by the government when it brings up a bill to the budget. But this is not done. How unfortunate it is when we are trying to look at a project, such as achieving greater practicality! We would like to be able to examine some of the laws in order to identify why the cost is so great to them. Then we can look at it in a much clearer way which part of the law could be more efficient, even making the rights more beneficial and useful to those with whom they belong. There's a lot of stuff in here. At least I send the message into a budget board, where I take them myself, asking for transparency in this regard so that we can try to perform the law and the constitution as it is, that we are accepting prefects and not afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his number. I am impressed by his speculations. We're discussing budget. This is a law, and it has some written in it at high cost, and it's the coin to be spent on it, which says there are adults who are actually like open-handed ones. It is a commitment to fulfill it, no matter whether it is contained or not. Then there are other joints, such as croaks. A senator pointed to things that are just Sorri, the money's done. I think this is a reason to wonder. Certain services to individuals depend on financial contributions, but there are other factors that can overtake individuals. I mention, for example, all jobs that were now to be canceled but were then added to the budget. It's such an open source we don't know where it ends. We have three months of the year, and you may have wanted to see some plans for what could happen later on with these types of open - minded teams that at least a financial committee would explain how these teams were involved. You find it strange when sick people need health care, such as mental - health services, but they don't get it because they don't have money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u4	President. It's like I'm under the law, they're divided in three rough ways. The largest part is the implementation of laws, social security laws, psychology services, these activities legally assigned to the Commission, the administration. The vast majority of budgets are just the financial means needed to cover that part. Then there is government policy, i.e. Will governments do something special, some effort on the other hand, some maintenance project or such, to make society better than it would be if there were no government, and we were just following the law as they are? Then there's a third thing that the council adds to some extra tiny things, really, about 10 million on the others and on those projects here and there on the land, some books or something like that. This three - folding thing is so important to me that it's really transparent in both ways, that there's a separation between people. It's really wet together right now. That's what makes it, like a whale. A senator speaks of, that things like everybody's work become extremely vague in all the financial process and follow up of the resources, so I don't mention e.g. The amount of work that began last spring would cost 5 billion or something and then end up in some 10 billion more than that, which is just completely ridiculous. I'm not going to belittle that project, but how was it handled, how was it really true that the council was lying about how serious it would be, and why we have to insist on asking the government to look ahead for financial resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. This is for a senator. He also mentioned in his list how to plan ahead and plan ahead, not after, that the Senate is now being installed on the board of expenses set in motion and on to-dos set in motion and then approval of the council afterwards. These are some kind of special work. I'd like to mention the highest. Economic and financial ministers recently mentioned that the number of electricity cars, subsidies on the media, might be considered to increase the number of cars, some 5,000 cars. A good price is worth it, but, of course, it comes with expenses. I think it was mentioned that it cost 5 billion. Is it not reasonable, then, that such things should come on the council's table before the project is started? I'm aware that once a minister of finance has mentioned some things, he's going to follow through on them. It's my job to talk about spending money that doesn't serve well those who need support that day. I would have liked to see others and that my knowledge of the more important things at this point. But you can somehow see that there's a lot of stuff that can sound good and then there's some billions of cost to go on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u6	President. What a tremendous example this is! A senator comes here by saying that as government laws on public financial matters work today, the government sets specific goals, setting specific policies. In this, it's like... Climate policy. That series contains many billions of projects to achieve a measure of success. What results are we going to achieve? There, a minister might bring about a change in the project and say: All right, we had a project to meet this goal, with these 5 billion or something like it, but at closer analysis, we found that by going under electric cars, we would get better results. It would be a better use of public funds. Instead of the 20 projects, it's just one project. The long-term effects, the short-term effects, and everything are higher for the same money. Then there's no extra clearance. That's fine. This may be done by a minister, no problem. But if a minister is going to take an additional assignment, make a new decision, that's not an extra issue, then it's the case that needs to be established in financial planning first and then into budgets. The process is simply that far. If governments are going to change policy and do something new, they have to go before the council, then Congress is needed. We insist on the government that it operates professionally that the projects can be planned on a long notice. It is quite necessary to be in public business, to make things professional in that way seek democratic discussions about government decisions. A very good example.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u7	Madam President. I'd like to encourage you. The legal committee to review several more things than those mentioned in this bill when it receives this bill. I can name the high inflation. It may not have been anticipated in December when the 2022 budget was agreed that it would go this high and that war would not be clear in Europe either. There are the consequences of a situation that has to be dealt with. We know this well, and we know what groups there are in the community who have no extra expenses just to run their home. These are the poor, older people who have to rely solely on insurance payments, these are single parents, low and middle people who are in debt, and for example. You know, tenants. Both mortgages and rent automatically rise when inflation rises. I'm gonna have to take this and I'm gonna be right back. Councilmen on a budget to consider this in the treatment of the bill. We have a good system, which is very easy to resort to. We know how they work. All you have to do is put other criteria into your systems. That's where I'm talking about the interest system, the housing or rent payments, the rent payments, and then the children's settlements. It is an equation that is powerful, which, of course, should be used in these modern - day situations. Another factor that is very important to consider is the health system, since by the end of February two years after the outbreak, which began in February 2020. As we all know, the Covid pandemic, the pandemic, has certainly affected society in many ways and the health institutions. Daily Covid-19 became infected in over 5,000 on the 25th of the past and had never been more in one day. This happened at the same time, and all the restrictions were lifted in the community. The remaining year, large groups of employees have been working for Covid-19, e.g. in the hospital, and this has had a big impact on the operation. The medical department at the National Institutes of Health due to the ill condition of our employees has been a big problem, and this adds to the problems we once faced. At the land hospital, 15% of the workers at work for Covid were at the most. As I told you before, Madam President, there are funding to deal with unforeseen problems, and this vast number of infections within a short period of time, and its impact on health care must be considered to be that. Therefore, it is our duty to respond. The absence of workers because of illness has had a profound impact on institutions. Some institutions have had to call on extra shifts, which involve high costs. It should not be that health - care facilities need to be impaired because of the condition that has lasted now during the first three months of this year. It is clear how this affects organizations, and it is possible to deal with them. Long-term effects on health care professionals have begun to have profound consequences. There is growing concern that as a result of stress, coldness will be added to the existing problem of design. It is assumed that the number of older people has increased by about 60% in the year 2040, and it is obvious that people in the health sector are already exposed to it. It has been admirable to observe how health care professionals have dealt with this situation, and it is long enough for governments to improve jobs and reward their work in the pandemic. The government adopted the budget last year to set up a passenger ward, which is just fine, but there's much more to be done. It is not enough to stir up departments here and there. It is a major challenge to man's work. I've mentioned the Land Hospital, but I'd also like to mention the Hospital in Akureyri, where they are faced with having to cut down services because of the lack of money. I can also mention medical institutions throughout the country that have financial problems on top of the human family, and it may be most vulnerable to a well - versed financial institution in Southnesia. It also calls for increased health care as a result of the pandemic, so the situation needs to be treated. There is another factor that needs to be done, that is to review the waiting list for action that has been delayed by Covid. There are many types of surgery that can be delayed. They are called selective, but they're hardly really that. I think we in this room know people who suffer because they wait for months, for example. This waiting list has been extended, the actions have been delayed by Covid and need to be addressed and implemented, at least Plans to work down this list of waitings and to spread the stress over institutions that may be able to relieve the Land Hospital in this regard. Then I'm especially watching the hospital in Akureyri and the Kraga Hospital around the capital area. The epidemic has made it so clear that the savings, cuts, and maintenance requirements of the past few years have not paid off. The health - care situation was sick when the Korean epidemic struck. She was sick because her services were always being cut down and reduced, stressing her staff, and then, when a pandemic occurs, the system is just too weak to cope with the stress. As a result, this has cost the community a lot of money and a lack of quality of life in patients who have had to wait for the position to take action. The increase in health - care donations has largely been compensation and compensation, but the current situation is otherwise similar to what it was in 2008. However, the need for health care has grown considerably since then. And now that the uncertainty is less likely because of Covid, it's time for governments to think outside a pandemic and in times of emergency. There is good reason to include a financial committee on the topic of health care now that this financial bill is being discussed. They need to respond and they need to allow institutions to meet the need for increased health care after Covid. It is called for an increase in physical health care, but it is also called for spiritual health. This needs to be balanced and dealt with as much as possible. So it is very important that we do what is right. A financial committee will review the health and the situation and call for information on how things have changed since the 2022 budget was agreed and how they can respond to the need for increased funding in various institutions to enable them to handle the situation, for now we cannot call for this unexpected disaster, this unexpected additional burden, and reduce self - control to those who need it. Madam President. I want to believe that the government does not want those who are the most vulnerable in society to bear the weight of the situation today because it is the result of a pandemic that is obvious to all who want to see, and we need to take on this group. Likewise, as I said at the outset, we should respond and make sure that economically ill groups we know in society can make ends meet when inflation takes place as they have done. Finally, Madam President, I would like to agree with what. paritaprevir Viktor Pálsson's son, when he spoke in his speech yesterday about this additional bill on the status of the gardening school of smoking. He checked that position well, and I'm not going to repeat it except that it's so important that the budget picks up, that when it was decided that the Garden School of Smoking would go to the South Mountain School - and it's about that. 350 million running the Gardening School with all the resources and equipment needed each year - brought the South American High School to the budget in 2022 11 million to take over this training and business at the site. Clearly, there are far too few millions, so I trust it. Congress members on the budget are reviewing this position. Or it may be that now that there was such a marked change in work between advisers, something was left out. The committee must also study and provide information for us here at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. Because I know the senator well and know that she has been both a minister and a member of the budget, handling the budgets from different sides, I would like to discuss only with her the basis for this kind of budget that really rests on and really rests on it. Hv. A senator mentioned that inflation continued here. We've got about 7% inflation. We know that inflation is growing, not only affects the people to whom it belongs but also affects the financial resources. Everything becomes more expensive, all shopping becomes more expensive, and interest pay goes up. There is something else that is on inflation. There are also other reasons why these laws, including those, were given. that we are catching a hairy skin based on recent news reports is not being caught, as expected. It's a hundred and sixty-two thousand tons that can't be caught. That's the billions we're talking about. There were also a number of tourists who could be coming in here in the stream of war and that unemployment would be shrinking because this is a tourist service starting again. All of this is a basis for these words we are talking about. But does a senator see any changes there that would have to be revised to make it necessary for him to wave some flags now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u9	Madam President. There is a chance in Congress to bring in a budget to deal with what is unexpected and unpredictable, both on the pay and the income side. For example, I don't think it was too long before the income would not cover the needs of welfare services and health care. This was evident in December when we agreed on budgets for 2022. We were, of course, supposed to put the resource charge on the huge projecting gold. What we get in the box into the state fund for this nation's resource is not even enough for service to the article itself. This, of course, is a scandal, and something has to be fixed. Of course, we're supposed to take on extra income, and then we're supposed to watch high-paying taxes on super-paying and try to level the game, take some income, and balance it with more paces in our income tax system. But the resource costs are something that is very obvious that we need to take up a discussion and as soon as possible decide how we're going to increase. I'm just saying again, it's a scandal and a disgrace to us as a nation that we have the social security system in which people live in a poverty trap but give large productions of resources to the rich. This, of course, is shameful, and we need to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Hv. A senator mentioned in his speech what was missing, including a medical budget or no willingness to care for these matters, as many of us feel the need to do. There is not enough money to be estimated to support the basic services that really need to be there, not just here in the capital area, but throughout the country. Of course, we know that this will cost our money. I listened to and participated in the discussion about older people's health issues, which is at the highest level. Healthcare Minister: We can't just be building a nursing home, we can't just be building a room, because it's so expensive, it's the most expensive way of making a living. Yeah, for this group of patients, but they can't. A senator sees saving in building just a nursing home to transport those in the hospital in a nursing home to relieve resources, where it is certainly necessary, so that we are not always talking about the cost of these things, but we can only see the savings of continuing in development in these areas as well as in other areas, such as just one. in the basic service, in the clinic, for good reason. A senator mentioned here? She spoke specifically of a Southnesian health facility that has been starving for years. Do we not see an opportunity in this regard just by caring more fully for these complex groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u11	Madam President. Yes, I can say with what. A senator noted that building a nursing home is not only an expense but also a savings done elsewhere in the medical system. As I studied in my talk, it is obvious that we have been in a tight condition that the health - care system has called for enormous costs when the pandemic season broke and the health - care system was not able to cope with the pressures. That's just the way it is. Therefore, we should take care of the health system now and start building and using this experience that we have from the pandemic to do so. Of course, we have a person in our health care department, but we know it only requires specific actions to try to fix it. While health care professionals are not removed from the rock, there is much that can be done to attract it, in order to get it to be in the health sector rather than to look for anything else. Money can be used to do that, it's a work position, it's ideal, etc. Of course, that is what we should do now. We're not just supposed to be saying it's good now that this epidemic has passed, and then we're not going to do anything to be ready to meet the next one, because there's gonna be another. We can't walk like that to the people who are about to collapse. When we're saying that we have to make an effort, that we need to take down a waiting list because there are so many steps to take from Covid, our staff may be exhausted and may not be able to get into the campaign. All we have to do is watch how we handle it. Otherwise, I just want to use the last seconds to encourage you. A senator to revise Article 7. in the laws on public finances that deal with the financial laws that are automatically inexplicable on public finances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u12	A respectable president. Here is a bill for financial support by the year 2022 regarding the change in budgets that result from the Council's changing order in accordance with the Presidential decision. This bill is intended only to reflect in a technical way the changes that have occurred in the Management Board and that have been reported in the Presidential decision, i.e. adapting the creation of documents to the modified scheme of advisers. This special budget legal bill, therefore, is ensuring the financial resources of the causes of heartburn, lawsuits, and recruitment for the year 2022, ensures that they will be fully in line with the changed administration order of the Council of Government, which took effect on February 1. We've got some extra cash here. I make a note that this case is presented in the form of a bill for financial support. Twenty-six. By permission of the President's permission of a government law on government finance: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. This is not a temporary arrangement, it is not an unforeseen budget, nor is it an inevitable budget. This is a technical change taking place where the budgeting is being adapted to the modified scheme of recruitment. There's almost been a transfer between accounting keys, if you can say so. I haven't found anything that will lead to a change in budget and change it like that. I know it's 23rd. is referred to as a change in bill for budgetation, but I don't think this article applies to the changes that take place here. What's under here, too, is a law on the Management Board of Iceland. This is quoted in the report. Twenty-one. The law says: To the extent that it is normally thought to take into account the scope of the project and the circumstances, between budgets and employees should be transferred to the level of recruitment. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The Office shall make an agreement with them for the transfer of documents and staff between recruitment agents [...]. A government minister establishes the budget for the transfers of administrative matters between halls. Not reached within two weeks of the Presidential decision. 1.mg. Section 4. is made to determine the prime minister's answer to this question. There is no evidence that there is a agreement between the councils for the transfer of affairs on the basis of the Presidential decision. It might also be wondered whether it was unnecessary to bring this before the council, where the funds have been provided. This is merely a matter of change in the language field. It was to be done in a change of budget, not in what is being done here. I'm not saying there's been a misuse of regulations 26. but that's just not the case. This was to be a change in bill for budget and also to build this agreement on the basis of Article 21. which, in turn, could have been sent to the council or to a body committee, which would have allowed this to be installed on the correct keys there. It's a question of presentation and nothing else. What could have been on this bill and I thought it was originally being dealt with at least increasing inflation and rising shelters This was not done, and this is sad because just now during the spring months, housing prices have continued to rise, and inflation will continue to rise. We can also illustrate: Today there is a war in Ukraine that has a tremendous impact on food prices that governments are facing. Inflation must not be out of control, government and the Generals must act as soon as possible. It would have to be done with financial aid, e.g. to increase the budget for building houses, i.e. extra housing and also to prevent or reduce inflation I was hoping that it would be done, but it wasn't. I don't think there's enough evidence here in this report to use 26. Acting a bill for financial support. The requirements are not available. I'd like to also point out that the bill's report begins with witnessing to Article 16. the law on government financial matters, which says that the budget should include the budget and the budget. Reports of government funds for causes of suffering and litigation, separated from preliminaries in accordance with Presidential decision. Here is just a technical adjustment of the budget that should have been done in another way. But it may well be that this is lacking, there is not a law on government finance that allows for a change in the budget that has been approved. But there is nothing that says they can't do that. I believe this is a classic example of how it can be done, and then on the basis of Article 21. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, where a deal is expected between the Councils. Then you have a court order where the issues are brought and then the Ministry negotiates to transfer the funds from one agency to another on the basis of the President's decision, because the General Assembly, which has the legal authority, has already agreed to provide the funds that are being discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u13	President. Hv. A senator spoke of arrangements for housing, coming in with a bonus or something like that to fix things, and I understand that very well in view of the problem. But the problem we face with official financial law is how governments conduct this financial process, and I was trying to describe it in my speech earlier. The government is simply not allowed to, unless something unexpected happens, something unpredictable, bring in like this and drive in: Listen, we're going to get 10 billion for some new job. It is not the correct process of using financial resources because government policies and ideas about new projects should take place this long distance; financial and financial schemes. It is an incentive for governments to think better in the future, for example. With regard to housing plans, so that there will not be a sudden crisis. That shouldn't happen. I'd like to ask you what. Senator on this. This fund is like a budget, but it is no longer under government law that is to be guided by government policy schemes and the chief authority on how we deal with government funds is that it does not bring just one, two, and three things. If it is Covid or something like that and puts pressure on somewhere, it may be possible to make such suggestions, not just out of nowhere, but out of nowhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I believe that a budget bill should be provided in a particular situation, when dealing with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget year. This is usually done at the end of the budget year, but there are no conditions now for doing this in the form of a bill for financial support. I believe that the government or the government or the secretary of finance has only decided to take this case into the form of a budget, but it's actually a change of budget. They're changing the budget, and they're going to bring a bill to change the budget. That's what's supposed to be done. I didn't vote for the current budget, didn't support it, and I'm not going to sullate myself more on it, than on the other hand. The senator mentioned the price of housing, and if inflation and housing are to be out of control within the budget, there is, of course, permission to do so and probably to do so on the basis of financial contributions. It's okay to do so now in the spring months, especially when circumstances are changed, and I don't talk about when food prices are likely to get out of control both in the world and in Iceland. Then I'm sure it's on the basis of a budget. But I believe that the form of this bill is wrong. It's moving between sides, between causes of rain, financial resources due to changes in Presidential decision. And they're just supposed to change the budget, not bring a financial bill. It just doesn't fit. I don't think it's logical enough in the report, why there's extra cash under there. It would have to be done specifically, saying that the criteria are set for financial support, but it must not be read out of the report. I haven't heard any evidence that this is supposed to go through money. For other factors, all you have to do is bring a bill about it. I would have encouraged now to bring a budget bill to address the problems of the housing market and to increase in in inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u15	President. For the President's decision and the budget, this may be the inevitable result of the timing of the election and when the council came together and provided a budget and a new President's decision was issued, and there were all kinds of complications. We discussed what sort of mess it was from A to A, and maybe the inevitability that it was only after the law was approved after all. It's totally normal to make a change in the budget, and it's done with a bill for a budget that ends in zero. There's no more money around here, a little strange. In other words, it's just a continuation of that mess. We can put it that way. All of us would be choosing spring, and this would have been handled by a president's decision before a bill is submitted and then would be with all the transfers it involves. But it is vital to mention that in 41 st. The Constitution says that no fee can be paid unless there is a legal warrant for this in financial or financial terms and the inevitable consequences are that if the government intends to respond to any unexpected expenditures or unexpected circumstances, they are to seek access with financial resources before coming to use the funds. If inflation takes off, it would be possible to bring in some extra cash, but it should not really be necessary, for government laws on government finance also assume that a government budget can go downhill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At that time, governments would be on increased budgets to reach their goals, for the goals that really matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u16	The President reminds us of the two - minute talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u17	A respectable president. It is true that the Council is responsible for financial management and that no money can be paid from a government fund except the government's authority. I don't see it that way. I see this case so it has something to do with a court order, as the report says, by permission of the president: In line with that decision of the president, the General Assembly agreed on a budget between causes of suffering and lawsuits in a budget bill for 2022, on its third discussion. So, now, during the transfer of administrative matters between recruitments, these financial provisions are being transferred between recruitments to the level of normal, taking into account projects and circumstances. This is actually a technical change here, where the budgeting is being adjusted for the changed order of recruitment. There's been a transfer between the causes of burning, the correct accounting keys, and the proper language because there's a new Ministry. I think it's okay to vote in the fall. In fact, this financial payment was a little on the short side, but it does not change that the Ministry of finance is obliged to have a ready bill for budget management at the right time, and then when new members of Congress, he puts his politics into the budget. However, I could not read it now in the bill for financial purposes that there was some particular government policy in that budget. It was a government bill for financial purposes. But no time should be taken if a person has a clear vision and knows what he or she wants to do. It may require a change in government law, that there is a clear warrant for the change in budgets when the President's decision is changed, but the European Commission's legislation assumes an agreement between its schemes to transfer financial rights. It's the law we're looking at because it's a change in Iceland's board of directors. [[The president calls.]] The way that change comes into the budget, I don't really think it's necessary to come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u18	A respectable president. As I've said before, I'm a new senator and I'm on a budget committee, actually not as a valid member of the committee, but as an officer of the hearing, and I'm trying to control the tactics we're making because the foundation for all of this is, of course, that we maintain the rightness of the work that takes place in such a way that the plans we have to make. It's been mentioned here. In his talk, a senator mentioned that he missed the situation, including the fact that he was not responding to it. with increasing housing prices, increased inflation. These would be factors that would be affecting the homes of the country and that would be expected to be also a trust fund. Then we are quoting this legal ground on which we are working, the laws on public finances, and the 26th chapter. The law on what's permitted in the money. It says: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for increased financial resources in the bill for financial support to respond to temporary, unpredictable and inevitable expenses within the budget... Then you ask: How much authority does a minister and a council have to do, just say, "I'll raise the housing support'or do anything that could affect the survival of a state fund? " I feel like that 26. So I don't know what the authority is. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u19	Thank you. A senator resists. In payment of the last budget bill, which is now the current budget, the government led the mood to propose additional financial contributions to build public apartments at 3.5 billion dollars. It wasn't agreed, it didn't work out. But I believe that if the situation gets worse and now it is predictable that inflation will increase, and the interests of the households will continue to worsen, react to it, and you can do it by means of financial support. It's not done. However, I think, and it shows a bit of a lack of direction for the current Senate or the government, that they have no intention of doing anything. Why is that? Yeah, they're gonna wait for a bargain talk. They will likely take action to deal with the inflation and rising housing prices in negotiations, three-sided negotiations with the labour market partners. Then they're going to do it. It shows a bit of a government policy. They do not have the initiative, they do not have the policies, but this is likely to come, there will be action to deal with the labour market partners, and then the employee movement must be required to respond to the conditions of the housing market. Then something will be done. Then perhaps, as a result, we could see funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u20	A respectable president. I'm worried about it, if that's what it's gonna be. A senator is here to say that there will be no response until perhaps in October, November, or December. I've known a subsidiary of my own in the past, and I've never experienced that we were making a bargain deal as soon as the other one was running out, so I'm afraid it will take time to make the agreements ahead of us. But I think that there is a need for change now and that this situation needs to be looked to in some way. A senator mentions, increasing inflation, rising prices for housing, rising food prices, rising fuel prices. Well, at the government stand, we've presented a pact proposal that I don't know where is, somewhere in a drawer of some document cabinet, where there were suggestions to help and in not many days we're also getting a financial plan for the next year. We need to enter the course we want to take. My intention is to respond by some action now, and I would like to ask the senator to mention the actions that he feels are appropriate to take to heart right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u21	A respectable president. I believe that the procedure to take now is to increase the supply of housing to reduce housing prices. House prices are way too high. It's the first thing. There the government and the government can act in a most decisive way. I also think we need to consider the inflation and we can, for example, consider. First, take the mortgage out of the inflation accounts. That's absolutely basic. If only it were to be done right away, it would be of great importance. Most mortgages in Iceland are insured, so this would have significant significance for the payment of their homes. I'd start with that, totally. Further, this procedure must also increase welfare services in order to reduce the impact of increased inflation. Regarding what I originally said in my speech, I believe that there is a point we can adopt in the budget when this bill is being discussed there, and there we can discuss necessary changes in the laws on public finances and whether this case is in the right shape or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u22	A respectable president. I have heard this discussion. I agree with the concerned voices and the views that have been heard about the economic situation today in terms of collective agreements and miss out on such matters as the rest of the government shows only the cards on how to deal with the growing economic situation of the common people in this country. Of course, it is special in the context we are now living, when we see what is going on with growth, what's happening with inflation, and that the propaganda is gaining weight, that the government is at the same time offering a bill of 2 billion, really just spending itself, 2 billion dollars. The cost of spending was growing because of the growth of a new Ministry and a growing number of advisers. I think it must matter what circumstances humans take in this way, although it is never exemplary to go on raising the total cost of the State over 2 billion in the next four years without any apparent need. In fact, it seems that when it was decided to increase the number of stewards and start a new Ministry, there was no expense analysis. I remember the most. The minister of finance responded this way when he was asked here at the council Hall, that I remind me of a member of the Central Party, the cost of these changes, by permission of the president: I don't trust myself to put a number behind it, but it's clear that by starting a new ministry, more than one, the cost will be at hand and he can run at hundreds of millions... He was right. The cost runs into hundreds of millions - each year. Over the season, it was, as I had mentioned, 2 billion bucks. I'd like to mention this in the context of the fact that here we are often hearing members of the Independence Party talking about being responsible in government business, and they are often scrambling their rural communities for not holding their wallet well enough while doing something they've done to the locals without the financial support. Then stand here at council and talk about people who are not responsible for financial matters but never hear a word like that. about this, where men could afford to perform in this way just to increase the number of ministers. It has to be said at the moment that there is a hole in it when the situation is the way it is, as it has been shown in excellent interest in growth, in inflation, and in what environment it is now when we are looking forward to a farm agreement. The situation in finance was also that it was assumed that government funds would be fired at nearly 170 billion dollars. Do it now. Of course, there are challenging times ahead for the Kingdom and for the common people in the land. I again mention a collective contract in the shadow of these circumstances, inflation and growth gains. I asked the highest. Yesterday's secretary of finance about what he's been talking about, especially now, is that there's a need to be careful with official financial planning and planning until the next year. He has talked about a previous raise of 7.5% in pay, but he himself concludes in terms of his control and financial management that it would be wise for him to increase the budget and thus raise the money paid at the Board of Management and then wait only to help others to be successful. As I say, it seems that the decision of the executives of the government to increase the number of recruitments has been made without a precipitating the cost, which is usually a fundamental factor when people take the money, especially the financial resources of others, and how much more so when we're talking about these amounts, and without any analysis of the need. Then it was that way. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir asked about the cost, and for some reason the time line became the answer to the actual cost of this matter was distributed to members of the council some hours after we were here to discuss these matters. I have also mentioned in this hall that the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has become the largest power in over a decade. They have become as many ministers as most of them were in the Icelandic legend between 1999 and2010. In the year 2012, the labor force was reduced to eight percent by consulting together. I began to look at it a bit, and we may remember most who are in this hall why those actions were taken at their time. Of course, the cost was much more important than the reason why one of the lessons of collapse was that the Ministry had been too weak to live up to its important roles and privileges. This is made clear in a report by the Directorates on the Management Board's Response to the General's Research Report. This working group, in particular, retraced the points which had the administrations and the public infrastructure to do, i.e. what was involved in the administration, which could have been added to what happened in the past. The main evidence was that this professional foundation of administration was sick, not just because of unscheduled political intervention, as it is said, but also because the units were too small. So the conclusion, professional review for the right decade, was that a larger Ministry is the basis for strengthening the professional foundation of the administration, that it was in the interests of the administrations, that the public in the country could strengthen the administration by reducing the budget, uniting it, and thus strengthening it with force. And as I say, over a decade later, the government chooses it, and I don't think this dot has received enough attention, to go against this lesson of collapse by increasing the budget. I think we've all felt it in this hall that elections took place at the end of September. During an eight - week political discussion. The government set out at the beginning of the December. A new board of directors began on February 1. You can imagine the gaps in the administrations that this draft is following, this expensive bridge that was started with without a diagnosis of need. Of course, I'd like to keep it to the advantage that we're there for some nice change, and it's my earnest wish that it will benefit all of us. But I want to keep it up now and direct it to the highest. Secretary of finance, although he is not in the hall, there is another history, that it is sobering to think that the minister of finance has blessed this practice in the situation in which we are. Unfortunately, on account of the government that speaks a lot about economic stability, which in fact isn't so great, speaks a lot about responsible government, it's pretty often written by another ideologies. The fact that the state funds had become insurmountable to the economic woes of a pandemic has become apparent. When all the circumstances were right, the government's financial regime was in a way that allowed the government's funds to be unsuspectable, when there were no special circumstances. The conclusion is, of course, that there is nothing more to do than the government of finance. In view of that, I want to keep it to myself once more and again, as I think this activity is up to 2 billion dollars. Unrespected by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u23	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion by repeating many of the good things that have been shown in it, such as When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The village of Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríður, a daughter of Guindar who before me discussed the irresponsible treatment of the government's money to resonate 2 billion in some disturbance of the Council of Control without even having an analysis of the need or analysis of what should be achieved by these changes. The only analysis available was the election's results, which called one more chair under more ministers to match the percentages of power in the government. Neither will I go into the psalms that many speakers have done here during this discussion, and I would especially like to mention why. paritaprevir The new Harðardóttir Daughter, who did a little well in his speech what would be a good thing to see in such a bill but is not there; all the unexplained expenses we might be handling in these funds. We can only start by talking about, for example. This unexpected reception of hundreds of refugees from the Ukraine War or that we need to finance a receptional system for other refugees so that two groups can not be opposed to each other, but we can welcome all. It's not a masquerade in these budgets, but it's a budget bill for 2022, which is a bit unusual for budgets. It says here on the front cover some changes in budgets that result from the Council's changing order in accordance with the Presidential decision (CEO). This is quite strange because the government law on government finance states that there is no room for additional financial authority in a financial bill to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, which could not be handled by legal resources. We can naturally see that the Council's formation was immediately upon the establishment of the government. That is what led up to a negotiation between the administrations from elections six months ago until the election began at the beginning of December. Then the budget was adopted for this year of financial gain, but, like a whale. Gunnlaugsdóttir Because necessary diagnostic work was not done, the budget could not be implemented on time in a decent way to grasp these wildest dreams of the board of directors for the increase of the Ministers' belts. There's nothing unexpected about this. The only thing is, they didn't have time to make it happen. Then some people might have, as happened, e.g. In the time of the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, we say: Here we're going to change the Council, just do it in some particular step, say how we're gonna do it, but we're not gonna do anything right now because we don't have time to make it work. But no, in return, workers of the consultants have been experiencing a few weeks of years of uncertainty about their lot in these wrinkles. We are now in March of the month and are finally making a move on the budgets, which means that it was not until this bill came to light what was being done between recruitment agents because the figures on these magazines are the work of the advisers, they are a service to the public in the country. The projects were inexpensive from the creation of the government to today, many of them. I'd like to point out, which I love about setting up on this bill - here's 2 g. an article on government funds and how they change in this bill. It's a little fun, right here at the bottom of the line, where it says "sammy," but there's no numbers, but there's no counting, and there's a 0 because this bill just shows transfers, there's no change, there's no compensation, there's no money to change. That's why, and that's what I asked myself to discuss, is a little interesting to examine the impact on the bill we're about to discuss next, the bill at the highest level. A cultural and business minister on temporary increase in labours and fortifications under the artist's law because it says that there is expected to be 100 million temporary this year in 2022 in the artist's payroll in the 15th sector, and this financial effect is expected on the 1830 budget for the 2020 budget, which is exactly the bill we are discussing today. This money isn't expected there, just sorcery. This is exactly where I looked at the table in an appendix. It wasn't her I checked first. Let us see section 18.3. 183, cultural funds, suggested that the legal rights of the mercenaries be reduced by 66.8 billion. K., on the one hand, there are transfers from the group of languages to other issues. Then there's a lot of moves, it's transferred from the Department of Education and Culture to two or three Ministryes, so the overall result is 0 except for these 66.8 million who move away to other topics. I'll just mention it here, hoping that some agents will have sex. Because I am surprised by the fact that there are two prime complainers in the same government, where the second bill refers to the rest, I am surprised to learn that there are 100 million, 100 million, 100 million. K. Which we're gonna give to artists, but then these bills don't talk. One appeared on March 1, and on March 12, and it is as if they were written in their own year. But knowing how a budget works, I know there's a strong people there who will take it in and solve it, I hope, because we don't want to do the highest. The minister of culture and commerce has returned with its good language as discussed below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u24	A respectable president. Finally, when the book The Great Webman of Kashmir, by Halldór Kiljan Laxness, was released, author Kristján Albertsson wrote. I feel a little bit so today that it's finally, finally, when I recommend here for the bill to legalize the artist's Prize law, No. 57/2009, which includes a temporary increase in employment pay for stagers and musicians. The bill is a part of the government's resistance campaigns to support the cultural sector because of the negative impact of the crown virus epidemic on artistic employment opportunities. A respectable president. In 1891, the World Council granted its first poets with a special law, thus laying the basis for regular funding from government funds to artists. The first contributor to the Icelandic poet was Matthías Jochumsson and Torfhildur Hólm. By 1874, the Common Assembly had received financial resources for the country, so it did not take many years after such funding was first possible and until it began, but similar funding had also begun in Finland and Norway after they had gained political independence in the early 19th century. This just reminds you of the importance of political independence. Scholars have believed that the distribution of funding to artists was linked with efforts to establish Iceland's place in other civilized nations. It could thus boast of its own independent art life ending a major part of the nation's independence and independence. Since 1891, therefore, funding has been provided to support the country's art life, but the projects during that long period of time have been varied. For a long time, it was a process of unscheduled conduct that made many comments, and many prime reports were submitted by members of the council who intended to create a more fixed frame around the artists'distributions. Artist's pay legislation was first implemented in 1967 from 1946, which, in fact, remained largely unchanged until 1991 when the law of No. 35/1191, for artist's wage, went into effect. The current 2009 law then produced several changes in the system that included the art fund. Layed down and established the pay fund of stage artists and musicians who are just the funds suggested by the bill I recommend here for temporarily raising money. A respectable president. When discussing artists'salary, it is important that we be aware of their long and remarkable history, how that story began, and what circumstances it unfolds. Each nation's life is immensely important, and in many cases the strength to artists is a complete prelude to the ability to thrive and thrive. Even so far as to say that the self - image of each nation is mirrored in its art. A respectable president. I met one of our top artists last night, Víkingur Heiðar, and he was just reviewing how important it was that he received an artist's salary after he finished his training in Britain. He was in the artists' cars for three years. It was awe - inspiring to hear how much he could produce at that time and how the artists'wages laid a complete foundation on what later came to be in the hands of that artist. It is not that we ask. It is, of course, his way of doing things that are very different, and we can be really proud of him. A respectable president. After this brief review of artistial history, it is proper to consider the subject of the bill I recommend here, as well as other support measures in behalf of the cultural sector. Worldly Koreans have had a profound and negative impact on some sectors, but according to Economics figures, their production was reduced by 6.5% in 2020. A reduction in cultural values, especially in those of the people whose income - building sectors, was enormous. Thus, musical dishes for concerting in 2021 were 87% lower than the corresponding income in 2019. These declines in sectoral income have been met by general procedures that have proved to be successful, such as was discussed in a report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of measures to meet the economic impact of pandemic crown virus. So the government decided to protect a total of 450 million. K. to the interests of the cultural sector and, where involved, it was decided to place special emphasis on supporting young artists. It should be briefly discussed the efforts taken by the government to support the cultural sector. For the music sector, a total of 375 million was decided. K. which thus divides 150 million. K. additional contributions are made to the toddlers. To make up the authors for loss of income because of the lower author's fixed payment, rights heads will be strengthened in cooperation with STEF. In addition, the payment fund of musicians receives an additional supply of 75 million. K. which is based on the bill I recommend here. Young musicians had special emphasis on which one third of the sum is an earmark for young artists under 35 years of age. Music fund also receives 50 million. K. a further development to support the application in 2022, thus contributing to the more efficient efforts of the cultural sector when the event begins to resume. The record fund will increase by 40 million. K. This year, but according to budget, 39.2 million. K. This is a two - fold feature of the year. The sea supports recordings, but much music has been recorded during the meeting limit. Then the music export fund receives an additional 40 million dollars. K. But the fund strengthens Icelandic musicians to share their music with a larger audience outside Iceland. Finally, 10 million will be given to the UNO. K. additional production than UNON supports the export project of all music sectors. You will also receive 10 billion pricing centres. K. further progress, but the centre has the task of documenting and presenting Icelandic music and making it available to transport in both countries and abroad. A respectable president. For the sake of the stage art sector, the bill suggests that the workers of artists through the ratings' pay will be increased by 50, and the additional monthly pay will be specifically due to young stagers under 35 years of age. At that time, the stratosphere fund will gain an increase of 50 million. K. But a stratosphere is a fund that supports the layout and the activities of the field arts. The special components will be due to the additional extensions proposed by the bill I recommend here. Already, this year's stratosphere has been assigned to add 25 billion. K. which was half what the government decided to add to the fund. As a result of the increase in artistics to stagers under 35 years of age and 25 million. K. an increase to the stratosphere fund will be advertised for the law of the bill. It is suggested that temporary changes in the artist's registries are implemented in order to aid in the rapid distribution, including with a shorter period of application than is generally considered justified in this case, as this field is aware of the additional aspects of the bill. A similar arrangement will be held with the pay fund of musicians. It is important to note that some additional contributions I discussed earlier do not require special legal adjustments in order to get to work. A respectable president. As I mentioned at the outset, art making is of utmost importance to the nation, and it is important that the State support them in a handsome way. This is especially true now when culture is accepting a terrible past few years. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to what? The General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of culture and trade for this good bill, which I can't help but rejoice because I've asked for it along with my friends from the big and small music sector. I know that having been in a two - year - old service program, as the union has been largely part of it, a large number of individuals and families have put themselves in grave danger. This is shown efforts to meet groups that have not had much to choose for this ongoing ban. I'm asking the highest. Minister if it's not her opinion that culture is here, of course, for the sake of culture, but also is part of an important commercialism for the long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his reputation with this bill. Yes, I agree that the culture and the music and all the arts that are within the metropolitan culture are a sector that we must further contribute to in order to have more jobs in the sector. We have a very good plan to build a music policy that was made during the last term, and we are going to implement a good deal of reconciliation and cooperation with the music sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I also welcome the ideas of making music more specific and more practical in Iceland. The ideas of a music center that will be similar to that of a movie center. Musicers in Iceland have enjoyed success, and their tour around the world, success, and the big names in Iceland have probably gotten through this sludge pretty good, but I'm telling the largest things, probably 90% of Icelandic musicians, are low-payers and have just a very difficult life. But I think it's nice to point out the facts here, that from one piece, as well as a book, there can be a full drama, a whole movie, and a whole series of series, and I think that they are worthy to remember that this is like any other innovation that needs support and oxygen and efforts to celebrate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u28	A respectable president. I just want to say here that during our last term, we put special emphasis on literature and movies. We began a reimbursement process. " Pays for publication in Icelandic books, and the result is huge. We saw an immediate increase between 2018 and 2019 47% in the publication of Icelandic children. It's been a long time for us to go up like this. The same can be said of movies. We made a movie policy, which has also been very helpful in the sector. During this season, we will stress the importance of music, design, and then art. Now we're part of an art policy. We're based on music policy from the last term and we're thinking about setting up a music center, or not thinking about it, and we want it to become as powerful as the movie center that's been creating movies and hundreds of jobs in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u29	Madam President. Finally, Kristján Albertsson said after he read the Great Webmen from Kashmir. And finally, at last, said the highest. Minister here and safe to agree, and congratulate her on this first matter of the New Ministry of Culture. It has been two months since this operation was announced, and it was finally scheduled in March and now scheduled at the end of the month. All right. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister on the Pracian in this, what methodology is suggested when selecting from new applications for additional jobs. Will they see the first distribution? Will those receiving a job reward be able to be assigned more months now if they are reaching out for it? Is it going to be over your head? Can candidates even post the same application that was sent into the winter and receive an additional salary based on it? [[The president calls.]] There's some kind of thing I'd like to hear from a minister with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u30	A respectable president. Thus, a minister is not meddling in individual aspects of distribution. It is the management of artists, artists'employment fees, and it goes into such details, and I don't think it's desirable for a minister to be involved in that kind of operation. Mr. Secretary puts the lines as we're doing here today. We know that young artists have had special problems, so we stress young people, and I hope they will. A senator agrees with that emphasis. And then I'd like to point my head. A senator says that what's been going on is that we're raising the arts. They're now in over 500,000, and this is an increase of 17% which occurred at the beginning of the year, and this was a long time ago a timely correction. So the Ministry doesn't all operate here at the council Hall to inform the young senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u31	A respectable president. I appreciate the fact that the young senator is informed of all of this. But, of course, in these laws, you have to figure out what both distribution committees and candidates can expect when the law comes up. That's why I asked about this point earlier. Other than that. This is shown in the bill's report that there was no time for traditional inner and external consultations for the collection of the bill. Now, as I mentioned earlier, a long time ago there was a report of support action, and it is likely to start working on all of this, and the situation in this sector will be worst in December, January, and early February. Why could a formal and traditional approach to the outworking of this matter not be put into practice, this month since it was announced?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u32	A respectable president. I think that we have been quite modest in our report when we said that we couldn't have had conventional consultations because we were actually very much in agreement. We agreed with STEF. We agreed on UTON. We agreed with the artists'director, and we agreed with the BIL. Like I think it is. A senator notices this is an extremely good bill. We deal with all major factors, and I'm very proud of the way we do this. What's been going on in the cultural sector is it seems to me that when we compare ourselves with the North countries, Iceland will be the country that has been most supportive of culture and sports through Covid. We made it a complete goal in Covid to form a so - called economic air bridge, making sure that there were other children who were pursuing sports or studying music after the epidemic is over and that it is working.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u33	A respectable president. I thank you for the contributions of this bill, which had actually come to be a long time ago, and I agree with the words that have fallen here that finally occurred. We have 450 million dollars. Of course, it's just a relative number, and it spreads into a lot of people. These are the names of musicians, loan funds, music funds, recorded funds, export funds, UNON, and whatever, so there are many people who will benefit from this, but you wonder at the amount of money. What I would like to ask here about this being 240 grants, or a salary, verse 330, of which 50 to less than 35 years of age: If it goes to over 50 under 35 years of age for strength, do they not get strength? Will this be possible if less than 50 years of age are applied for strength, will it move up? [[The president calls.]] Is there a curve in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u34	A respectable president. I want to reiterate that when we took these support measures, these extra support measures, because, of course, we had a very large operation before we brought this to a final or secondary music pack and platforms, we did this, so it's a custom for the worse. I can inform the U.S. Congress that we were ready for this figure to be higher than after careful reviewing the matter, and in much discussion with the article, this conclusion was reached. With this flexibility, all I have to do is look for more information before I can answer it. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to here in this chair commend the government for taking the action taken even though I thought it would be a year's ride that we had to take care of them. There is one group that hasn't. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon has mentioned here in a talk chair, and there are the people behind the scenes, a large group. I've got friends who've been working like the mixer-men or being behind the scenes, lightsmen, and being doing whatever to keep concerts or standing before events. These people have fallen between ships and docks and have been leaking death from shelling since the start of Covid. Somehow I feel like there's no need to look at this group, the people who work behind the scenes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u36	A respectable president. I think we're right next door. A senator that although I come here and say that we're very proud of these actions, they're certainly not rejecting criticism. After a series of events occur, of course, we need to do the same. A senator noted, taking a critical look at action. Are there any people we missed? We'll just have to watch it. As I say, was the whole time to monitor children and young people carefully in sports, music studies, and see: Will there be a lot of elimination during this period? If so, this has not been as successful as we planned. However, the first evidence suggests that we have been able to keep everyone in, both sports and music, since the State's authority was very effective in this regard. Had he said so, I repeat, we are to review these actions in a critical way and do away with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u37	President. I have mainly made comments in the year 2022 this way, especially when you look at the way some temporary increase in money has been done to this class that has been used to raise artistic wages, which is good and good. However, there is a temporary rise which means that if the temporary increase does not go on, the contracts will be reduced or the monthly wage will be reduced. There may be something coming up to meet it. But this is just 2022, which is the year, one fourth of that year is over. I would like to ask a minister: Will there be anything similar in the budget of 2023/2028?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. It's most important now that we're going to a certain reexamination. We need to take a closer look at the young people and the older ones, and I'll be able to introduce substantial changes in the labour system, which is actually related to the changed demographic of the nation's composition. So I'm doing a full reexamination that I've been working very closely with Icelandic artists' Alliance, trying to find out how we can do this better. With increasing numbers, we won't see it yet. But what I'm stressing is that pay also keeps what it deserves. One thing I have experienced is that the subject range of 18 has not been valued. I'm going to stress that we're going to finish everything that has to do with the culture of the season. We must take one step at a time, but I'm afraid the number of artists needs to be increased because we haven't done it for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u39	A respectable president. I know there's not been a financial plan yet, but it must have been shut down already. It should appear to us at the latest in a week or so. It is really ready, should only be printed, pdf document or the metabolic document sent to the printery and such. So I find it reasonable to ask about this temporary increase that was not necessarily in this bill but also in financial terms for 2022: Are we losing that temporary increase in the next year? It's a Covid operation, that's being given only, interestingly, especially when you hope that opportunities are increasing regardless of the production of innovation from the state. So if the temporary operation from 2022 goes away, and not just that; if the temporary donations on budgets 2022, in December, also disappear, then something we should know about the future should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u40	A respectable president. As mentioned, financial programs have not been published, and I have to admit that I don't know if you have any authority to report them until they've been published. Because I'm not sure about that, I'm not going to give a glimpse of it until I get to the highest level. The Secretary of Economics and Economics introduces it here. But what matters most is that governments, of course, need to have the number of artists develop to the same level as the population's growth. So I view it as a great challenge to work on increasing numbers of artists. I cannot tell you how positive the artists'influence culture, and I hope that the same thing can be in more arts than in the movies, i.e. That we are growing our jobs, just as we have done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u41	President. There's a huge need for a big deal around here. My main observation is that this is just before the year 2022, as mentioned earlier. There's no need, I think, a certain prospect. This arrangement is set aside for temporary use, and on the basis of any number of monthly wages this year, which is also a little strange. I don't know if these contracts have been expected in any of the distributions so far so far, and the following is a search for sources or laws. Maybe I should have asked the highest. Minister to the past, because there are also differences in the length of the contracts, and there is a need to have pretty faster hands if that is the case, for example. to reach nine-month contracts for the rest of the year. I saw a report of the Council of Human Rights on January 15, 2022, discussing the distribution of the artist class in 2022, which said that this time the artist's prize was increased by 4.6% in the 2022 distribution, while a special 100 million were added at the same time. K. by budget of 2022 C.E. to raise artist's salary. I'm not sure that's the right way to interpret that authority. At any rate, it was my understanding that this 100 billion. K. additional money would be available to artists, but both had to be done, and perhaps a minister's choice is to raise the artistic wages, in effect, one part of what had to be done anyway. But as I said, this is a temporary one, so my next question is, "When this temporary deposit disappears, will the artist's pay come back, or will the contracts be reduced? I asked for a memo on how this was going to be happening in the near future, and there I asked, for example. the length of this temporary increase. The answer is that a contribution to the promotion of artistial workers is expected to be made permanent in 2020 by using a section of the budget estimated in the budget 18 budget of the budget in the budget of 2022 BAS26. That's interesting again, because that's what it's all new to a particular project, and as far as I'm best it, it wasn't particularly using the exact spending range in exactly what it was like to go up, so there's something else going out there instead. This is one of the problems we have to deal with the implementation of government financial laws, and it seems to be none of these problems despite being one of the baselines. There is no premonition in the way e.g. The amount of artists is developing. It's like the highest. According to a minister before, they have not been taking the normal consumption scale changes or the prices and salary development, which is interesting to them. Also, the demographic changes are not included, so it will not be this real growth, e.g. in the field of health where the population is expected to be increasing, or in the case of older people, but there is an increasing number of people over their heads, making them exactly the same in this region. It's missing, I think, that there's some kind of stairway to the ground and some way to the future, not just for 2022. We should be in the arrangement to set policy, the government should set a course for five years. I look forward to seeing the financial program next week and how it will be handled. Sadly, the answer I received was accompanied by a column, not by a tablet. It's such a fun thing to count to a 20% increase in artist's salary in 2022. That is when these 100 million were used to increase pay in addition to those 4.6% of the budget managers of the budget bill, which is just far beyond the price paid and the pay number. It shows that in 2021 the increase was not what, 1%, seems to me. You can't see it because the scale is 0%, 5%, and so you don't really see the accurate numbers. I think it's going to be a 4% rise while the index price price is rising by 3% and the remuneration is increasing by 6%, something like that on the right side, 2019 similar, while 2018 is up to both the price number and the remuneration number. This is very unfortunate when these developments cannot be predicted until the next year. For example, a financial program suggests that the amount given for this sector is generally in terms of the price of the year that it is presented and as it reminds me of the somewhat similar features of the old financial programme, which means natural contractions if we take into account population growth and, in general, taking into account the salary development, not the price paid, so that the price of development comes into it. Remuneration is not involved. Artists'innovations are largely a salary that should then be followed by pay. There is something that should be tried to predict. It's obviously not that way here. The answer I received last January 27th, following the decision of a government meeting on January 25, came to give 450 million to this series of lawsuits because of this time routine for the pandemic of Covid. It makes it relatively clear that the artist's job salary through the music artist's salary is 75 million, through the payment of 50 millionth - million field artists. K. additional production, a fund of 150 music fund 50, the export fund of 40 music, a record collection of 40, an UTD 10, a construction center 10 and a staging map of 25. This bill, in turn, will not appear until March 1, over a month later. This is not really much more than in answer to the budget committee by the end of January. I wondered, just because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's because it's about the arts going to be 35 years old and under and it all looks like it's there. It's a little hard to compare it, it's not the same procedure, so you check it out and check it out, and it all looks like it's all right. I don't see that there's anything extra there, either, there's maybe the bill to a monthly wage that's confusing, but it should be quite clear because it's also clear in the memo that we received each month's salary. In that case, the salary is 490,920 k. During a month involving contractors, which has been taken into account that the budget of 2021 was temporarily 225 billion. K. contributes to one year because of the increase in artist's monthly salary, an interesting one, a temporary contribution. I think this may be the description of the whole problem of this topic. It's all temporary solutions, certainly to some extent because of the pandemic, but it's still the overall vision there, so I'm just celebrating it when it's the highest level. According to a minister, she is proclaiming some improvements in this case group. I think we just have to wait for both the budget, which is in a week, and then this overall review. Perhaps a minister will only enter here in the discussion later when is this overall review due to the fact that the overall reviews are always the way they are. Are there any parts of an artist's wage that are clearly defective? Would it be possible to take anything temporary at present and make it permanent before considering the overall review, just to take the step that the basis is secure before making possible changes? We often end up in some kind of duke, so to speak, i.e. If there's something to change, there's something else that gets in the way. We can see that in the Constitution. We can see that, for example. while attempting to change the social security law on the network, it is infringement on one or two factors that may be a matter of government party or something, as does stop them all. You wonder, " Could it be a good idea to lay these temporary points as a solid foundation and work from there on the whole reexamination, that's just a suggestion? ' At any rate, I look forward to seeing this better explained in the management of the Committee and specifically calling for it, but I guess this needs to work fairly fast because, as I say, this is before 2022. Finally, I would like to see, I did not mention it so long ago, that such a bill, which is about budgets for the year 2022, for the present year, should, in fact, follow a budget bill at the same time, there should be a bandworm, because here we are accepting a law that is not a ransom for the accurate as it is, although it is said that it should be taken into account in terms for this year's financial benefits. But that's behind. We have a financial bill now in our hands that we were discussing back then, which does not have these documents, premium accounts, but here we are talking about non-employed extras. There will be laws that will be published, and there is no legal authority to perform the law, only governmentally seen. There can be no payment unless there is a means to pay for it in financial or financial matters. It's the chicken and the egg that I was calling attention to last time. When you bring the exact bill, you should also be a financial bill because you are expected to respond and use these laws at once. But right now they're without a warrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u42	Madam President. This bill is temporarily increasing the number of artists'jobs by the year 2022, from 1,600 monthly rates to 1800, as shown in the bill. The year before that, there was an increase of 2,150, 225 million. K. a special contribution to the artist's pay fund in view of the virus epidemic. As we have seen, all arts have been damaged by the epidemic, and the worst situation has affected musicmakers and stage artists. I support this added contribution. I made a special decision that specifically mentions stagers and musicians under 35 years of age. Perhaps I missed that in the talk of the highest. A minister of what is behind it, of course, there are stage artists and musicians who are over 35 who have also been damaged by the virus epidemic. I think it's a good idea to review the story of the artist trade, but it's a salary, as we know, that artists can apply for every year. What we know about artists'wages is from 1991. The songs used today are from 2009. However, the distribution of pay on the part of the public to artists has a much longer history and much for the rest of the 20th century has been customary. Various items were then assigned directly to members of the general council, or bodies, designated by them. Of course, this arrangement was debated, and it was the salary law that went into effect in 1991 to greatly improve with objective practice, both during the application and the distribution of the salary. The employee's salary makes it possible for several groups of men and women to devote themselves to their art, which, of course, is important. It is a regular feature of an artist's salary that will be discussed each year. Sad to say, the debate is negative, and some view that this and the other artist were assigned to artists for several months and more often than even subscribers to artists or employees. The talk about artists'wages has been a tendency to become personal. In many cases, they are assigned to prominent individuals, and people often have opinions about their work benefits and their value. Some even speak in terms of artistry. They also use the comment system in social media to attract artists. Often, the talk about artists'prizes in that area is harsh, as is the case with many other subjects. This discussion has caused some fine artists to hold back from applying for artistic wages, especially for their families and children. Of course, people are affected when they are attacked publicly just for the temporary award of artists. The last year's budget says the artist's fee is 400,000. and the pay is a contractor's salary, which will have to be reduced from pensions, vacations, and taxes. I think it may be said, Madam President, that it is difficult to be a young artist who is beginning. There's not a lot of money available, e.g. Book editions, especially for authors who are floundering. The Icelandic book market is too small to support professional authors alone. Remember, the author of such Halldór Laxness as he was most of the highest poet's grant on the part of the government. Other writers we boast of doing their work with the support of the artists; Davíð Stefánsson, Þórðarson, Jóhannes úr Kateum, Katlar Steinarr, and others. Let us not forget that the Icelandic authors once write for one of the smallest languages in the world, that is, even so. Their role is very important in the use of Icelandic language, especially when we know it. A major part of authors' work is voluntary work, and for the sake of their work, the person may be called on radio and television, at elementary school, at university, and at a seminar. Often, this work is almost without favor. With regard to the stage arts, the market is small and exhibiting few. I think it's safe to say that artists are up to a group of low-payers. On the other hand, many people are shy and probably not comfortable when the brand is their own. No doubt it is not pleasant to be rejected when it comes to artists'refusal for distribution. This, in turn, can cause the person to stop creating. I think people in general are positive about artists and artists. I think it's a loud smaller part of the social media comment system, but of course he must not control the discussion, and he does not have a negative impact on these topics. The amount of money paid by the government is returned in various ways by artists. We must not forget that. They form jobs around the lists, and the article gives you a set of values. Books are sold as well as art items, we attend show and concerts, tourists attend the country for artists, and the group is bigger than any suspect. It is important that the artist's performance be good. As the fund's further demonstrations grow, public awareness of the importance of artists is enhanced. There are, for example. Not everyone who knows that the fund is also a replacement. Of course, at least 5% of each fund's budget is distributed to artists who have not been previously assigned, and of course it is of great importance. In addition, it is emphasized that distributions reflect all the foolish creations that take place in each field. When I was on a budget during the last term, you often heard the term national product, especially when we discussed the debt of state funds, which was often discussed as a percentage of land production. Various sectoral activities contribute to the land production; the fishing route, tourism, industry, agriculture, etc. Thus, many services are related to industry, such as agriculture and fishing, as well as culture and art. Keep in mind that all sectors support one another. It would be interesting to see the figures on which the parts of the list are in the national product, of course, the figures are available, but they are far more than men think. Culture and art are important sectors and play an important role in the economy. Not to be overlooked is the value of presenting culture and art, no matter what form it is. But we cannot measure everything in national production and money. Art and culture have a positive influence in the community, which is an increasing well - being of individuals. In fact, the art and emotions it stirs have been used as a means of improving the well - being of alzheimer patients. This has been written in a book called Arts and Cultures as the treatment of Icelandic museums and Alzheimers. This is an interesting book that I would like to encourage senators to study. These types of donations, such as artists'wage, are not the only means to support the article. Of course, taxiculators may be positive in these matters, thinking that companies spending money on art and culture may be permitted to withdraw it from income with a certain amount of pressure. It's thrown out here. This has even been true. have been suggested in the realm of the UNESCO Institute for Culture. I'm telling you, Madam President, in the end there should be a joint project for all of us at the General to support ways of increasing the art and culture of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for a good and meaningful speech that I will admit was a pleasant surprise to me. My experience with a dog. In particular, the members of the Independence Party. The members of the Central Party, who are class members of the past. A member of the council has been, by nature, against the artists, to feel that they are, like, wrong. A senator entered, drunk, and feels some kind of humiliation of having received an artist's salary. I also experience it here at the council asking questions as to whether or not. Congress officials have received artistic wages in an effort to minimize the individual's language. Such a mental attitude. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms, to some extent, are predominant in this room, that this is some sort of alemus, unnecessary, and lacking something in those who seek to get an artist's salary. But I agree with what. An artist's salary is important to promoting art and culture, and I feel that we could do better. In fact, I think there's an artist in all of us, if not most of us, and if we were just building a more economic system, where everyone's basic needs were found, there would be considerably more about creation here. If we did not have to constantly be lost in our magazine of bread, we could begin to focus on creation. Hv. A senator spoke of this date. He was wondering what was behind a certain portion of the monthly wage for people under 35 years of age. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, however, does not agree that it is important to make sure that young people have increased opportunities to obtain artistic wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Because of what? A senator was wondering about the interest of individual senators and classed by supporting artists, and the heads of artists, I can say for myself that I have always been interested in this sector and have always been that way. As a young man, I even applied for art school, but nothing got out of that, I never sat there in high school. Maybe it should have. I try to attend shows and things like that, and I've always enjoyed it, and because we've talked a lot about Ukraine here, I know a lot of artists in Ukraine who have come to Iceland on my own and on my own. An artist who now has a new role in his country is wearing a piece of armor, something incredible. A great artist, who has shown himself to be in known museums around the world, has now served in the Ukraine. He said to me that it was known by art that if you stand in front of a beautiful piece, it brings out a certain feeling of well-being to the person, and he described it tremendously well. I don't think so. This is a very important article, and we are to support it. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the young, and of course, I support that they are trying to help them as much as possible because that is perhaps the most difficult time to start when men are starting, and they stop and fall off the train, so I support them, of course. But I cut down, that this age was specifically called.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u45	A respectable president. Just to be perfectly clear, I figured. A senator would not feel that artist's wages was some sort of alemusy or unnecessary, for in his speech he would support an artist's salary and that he wanted to weigh art and culture as large as possible so that it would be absolutely clear. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees. We were discussing young people, and I'm just going to take advantage of the trip because I couldn't make the most of it. A minister earlier wanted to point out a point I would like to discuss. A senator, too, because I think it's just very important. A top-of-the-art Board of Education would consider this. It's wording a-and-b-parts in par. It will show the monthly wage, with the permission of the president, a 50 - month wage for stagers under the age of 35, as is the case with musicians under 35 years of age. All right. I like putting these in order to attract young people to the table; it certainly has been very difficult for young people to be assigned from these funds. There has been talk of a measure of injustice in this regard, the fact that these applications contain young people. But then I wondered, " Is it not necessary to improve the wording so that there are a minimum of 50, to be reasonable, since there are possibly more than 50 under 35 years of age who deserve an artist's salary? ' I feel a little bit like they're putting a certain roof on this, too. I realize that until now, I'm sure it was a little lower. But I wondered, " Is the purpose really to put a roof on this? ' Should be the point of at least Wouldn't you rather be putting floors there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u46	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I don't have a definite view of it as a matter of course. A senator traced here. Perhaps more attention was given to my talk that there are still more stagers and musicians who are older and who wonder why this particular date, 35 years of age, is used. What about those 36 years of age? That's what I had in mind, but it might be nice to do. A minister would come into this. Other than that, I thank you. A senator for an excellent answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u47	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see how rapidly Icelandic culture has grown in recent years, and the government has emphasized special support for cultural life in a pandemic, where artists have suffered up to 87% loss of income! Surgent surgery, including some other forms, is now under way. These included a temporary increase in the number of artists, and artists were improved by a drop in income, and contributions from various cultures were raised, which was important. But we are all important in our new culture and should never be left behind. So it's the bill we're gonna talk about here with a great deal of joy. The bill is part of the government's resistance policy for strong civilization, as it were. In particular, consider the support the bill gives to young and up - to - date artists, as shown here in the Senate case before it is extremely positive to give special support to young people, a special art group, artists who are performing, promoting their arts, and letting their light shine, and it can be said to be the future of Icelandic culture. These artists would like to strengthen and encourage them in their original creations and provide them with greater power to enjoy themselves even more. A powerful art and cultural work is for the benefit of society all over it and has become an unbreakable part of the quality of life we want to have around us every day. In this context, I'd like to use my time here in a speaker's office to encourage the highest degree. The minister of culture and trade continues to do its good work in behalf of culture. During the last term, the minister took a big step in behalf of all the arts, whether they are stage art, movies, literature, or anything else, and is my hope that we will continue on that path and make a powerful culture even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u48	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this cultural prime minister, for in recent years many of the world's world lists have suffered massive loss of income as a result of the disease prevention caused by Covid. However, I would like to point to someone who is often forgotten. When the spa was in the spa, it had a feature called the man behind the scenes. I'd like to point them out a little bit. These are the people we usually don't notice when we go to concerts, the people behind the scenes. At every show, whether in a theater or in a concert, there are people who never see on the stage the key that the show can usually be done. These are e.g. Soundmen and lightmen, they create the setting of the concert you're on and without them the concerts wouldn't happen. The annual report of the electronic technology community states: ▪ The epidemic was equivalent to an ice age of many people in the ranks of our society, but the effects were more pronounced among other populations. When performances, concerts, and any mass gatherings were banned, there were no multiple consequences to professional workers in all aspects of these articles. The media was very focused on stagemakers, but much less on us, the busy people at the back of the tent, who lost some or all of their livelihood in one night. As noted in these brief text, some of the effects were less effective in this sector, some of which became stable, e.g. in the theaters or in the companies that work in this field. But then again, I testify to the above - mentioned report by the president's permission of the electronic community: The vast majority of these people are not in the defined groups involved in the actions of the government and the social security system. You can, for example, do so. Consider monographs, temporary employees, or many part - time jobs, to name something. Many who serve in this sector are monotonous. It's probably not a big group, but since I'm involved in this sector only, I know a few monopolys that watched their income fall apart in Covid. Since this group has not fit well or at all not in the supportive measures taken, the anti-pyretic and social activities of the Covid have been clearly associated with the application and field art sector in which a number of events or shows were canceled, sometimes spontaneous but also in longer periods of time. Whether it was a salary or a contractor, there was a sudden and complete loss of income in the sector, many of which were not well - versed. Because of significant reductions in their activities, many of them suffered much poor economic losses. According to the above - mentioned annual report, unemployment among certain technical groups in the epidemic shed a clear light on the uncertainty of position and rights caused by little or no defined employment relationship in the labour market. This is a group that often enjoys unstable recruitment forms. These are those who are independently active, dictators, taskmakers, or others who in some way have not enjoyed the same service or protection as a normal worker enjoys. I'm the highest. A minister to consider also this group, for he has completely ignored it. Without this group, events will be of little value, for no one like these can be affected by stagemates.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u49	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Culture and Business, Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir, for this important bill. As shown by other members of Congress, we have been in a very special situation in the last two years that have been deeply affected by art and culture in general. Perhaps I would especially like to draw it here and commend that young artists have already received specific support. The situation is that young artists have wanted to survive, and this is a response. They have been less likely to gain strength because they generally do not share the experiences of the older ones, and they can, of course, take on whatever they say, the quality of applications and likely the strength of the individual. The bill says, with President's permission: In the bill it is assumed that 50 monthly wages are intended for young stagers under 35 and 50 monthly wages for musicians under 35 years of age. The main purpose of the above is to promote young artists who are often taking their first steps after study or to start their career. This gives rise to criticism that a small number of innovations within the artistic system are at hand. This is important and, as they say, comes to meet the call of young artists. I want this in addition to any other component involved here. It is shown in a paper with the bill that the reduction in cultural resources, and especially in those of its sector based on revenue at the moment, has been enormous throughout the epidemic. We can only see from our cultural houses around the country that they have experienced this crisis with the number of visitors, of course, domestic and foreign visitors, and this has had a significant impact on their activities. Of course, the operation of cultures such as this has been achieved by other measures by the government. But that blow is, of course, the result that it has not been possible to perform and perform its art, so to speak, and therefore I welcome the prime minister very much. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and talk about the fragility of the government's last stand in behalf of culture, where funds were spent on the field of music and stage arts, e.g. was the music export fund, especially increased by 50 million. K. a donation that enhances the capacity of our excellent musicians to advance abroad and introduce their art along with, of course, their country and nation along the way. I think, a respectable president, this is very exciting and increases the likelihood that more Icelandic musicians will extend to international markets with its all-time valuables. But here's a good thing, and we are to continue this course, and I have full faith that the minister of culture will take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to discuss a little introductory with the bill facing the impact. It is the last chapter that says, by permission of the president: ▪ The public health, social status, and social benefits of certain populations can be expected that the increase in monthly wages to artists will improve the survival of those who receive distribution and society will receive the benefits. All right. This is an excellent translation of the value of art in society, and this may be a mere reference to the values of the world's prosperity. The government introduced with a popupu and pug, and said that it was going to put first to install. I feel like this, like with so many other things, a little postponing and, in fact, could have been the dominant factor for all plans. I wondered if we can expect to see this done in advance rather than in the initials that will come from the government sector, and especially with the budget. Would it not be true that this grand purpose of prosperity, which is discussed in a foreign country, was set on a schedule for the bills, not after they have been written but that some sort of evaluations are made on how they are affected? That there are goals we want to achieve, and then things are set out to achieve them, not to put things ahead, and then to discuss how they can affect these goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u51	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. For this specific sentence, I think it's obvious that cultural life is important. We see the impact of a powerful cultural force in the small communities throughout the country, in the secondary work and all this gives the communities to form in the business of restaurants. These communities have a positive influence on human life and are highly important. It can also be drawn to the security of this. I heard there was another answer. A senator into the security involved, but this adds to the possibility of a young artist's developing art that has a positive impact on spiritual health and health in general. But I can agree with that with what. A senator in many lands can do better when it comes to the analysis. I repeat, so I'm going back to the subject of this bill, that the bill is good, and I think it's a very positive step that Minister's taking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not sure we've been talking about the same thing. So maybe I'll explain why. A senator what I mean by these fortune - telling decisions, because they do not seem to have a clear explanation. A senator, I'm talking about a standard that has to do with something other than the exact economic consequences of action. It is true that art and culture have a vast economic advantage, of which it is not divided. On the other hand, the stated policy of this government is to provide an increasing increase in measures than the economic benefits of certain policy measures, the molding of measures, the decision of what should be put in place and why. My question was to see if there was any consciousness of this in the administration team, and I'm this way getting a certain feeling of it. It's just a tendency I've noticed. We have, for example. evaluating the impact of government action, the effect of legislation on sexual equality. It's been my experience, my experience, that we've had some evaluations afterwards. The government does what she wants to do and then evaluate how they treat the sexes. Whether they are positive or negative for sexual equality or not, they are evaluated only and assessed on the effect. It's not the way this is supposed to be. The idea is that we should set some goals, that measures are intended to promote equality between sexes, and that measures are in the process of improving the quality of our life. Then you should try to meet that goal, and it should be explained how it is done on each bill. I was only putting out on that this is always done afterwards. Instead of allowing this to happen, we are evaluated for its influence, and then these standards are really of no importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'll just admit it's something I need to look at a little more. I can say with what. A senator always needs to be there. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the influence on sex is spoken of as being equal. As mentioned in my talk earlier, I was particularly happy that 50 months of pay had been made for young public artistry and another 50 months' wages for young musicians under 35 years of age. I just have to let myself go, you know. President, join the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u54	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Education -- now I'm going to look it up, it's always changing - the minister of culture and commerce -- I'm used to the highest. Minister under another name, this is a condition - for performing this fine case. I'm on it. First, I want to make comments about some of the elements in the bill before I allow myself to discuss what is going on here. But I'd like to get these technical issues out of the way. First of all, like I came in earlier in answer to what. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, I pause to this idea that 50 monthly wages should be prepared for the field lists under 35 years of age or musicians under 35 years of age, not because I don't want certain parts held with young people, because I think it's very important to give young people more opportunity to get artistic pay, I just don't think it's appropriate or right to put it as a peak, which is what I read from the wording of this article. I believe that this could be corrected by adding the words to a minimum of ◯ in front of them. It would be a rather simple change that would explain that at least it takes 50 of these months to put on, but there may be more. That's what I'd like to say about the subject of the bill as such. I know why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson went into the budgets in a very thorough matter and the financing on which we agree, we agree. Senator, need to be secure and secure in the future. I agree with the highest, too. Ministers that it should, of course, be rewarded with such a salary as others. So complete, I wanted to discuss a few things, the same thing that I said in reply to why. paritaprevir Just before, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, who considered the effects of this bill to be a turning point. This is a general comment to these teams in the essays, especially the Presidential Network, but this happens, of course, on Senate primes too, but it's always bringing food to the side. It appears that most bills are produced, and the various effects the bill may have made are evaluated afterwards. I feel that this is the beginning of the wrong end, a respectable president, because I feel that politicians, and especially governments, who have the power to get things over and to agree with the policies of the law, should set goals first and then build bills around those goals, not just build some bills and then see how they're going to meet some point that's going to become some kind of leftover size. We've seen this repeatedly, for example. ... tofinancing all these funds that have gone through the Parliament during the crowning season and in various economic reactions that have occurred from the government. There's an assessment of impact, and the government is referred to as having such or queer effects, e.g. on the sexes. Of course, the government should assess in advance what must be done in order for the government's response plan, the government's response, the government's actions, to promote equality between the sexes. That they not merely make decisions about what they will do and think: Yes, what positive effect will this have on sexual equality? Maybe just so exactly no one. I don't think it's a sex plan. I feel that they miss out, and I have no clear understanding of the purpose of entering them to appreciate their effect. The same is true of this well - being that I referred to earlier in answer to what happened. A senator. They often seem to be just a punt, and that's obvious from conversation with what we're talking about. Councilmen say that not everyone is even aware that these words of prosperity should be viewed or used in increasing numbers. Even some do not even know what they are. This raises compelling questions about how important these prosperity facts really are for this government and for this greater part. If people don't even understand what this is all about, you wonder why it is. It's a good and blessed thing to talk about at international conventions, but it would be better if we showed this in local work. I like to see that this bill, in this report, is at least Speaking of social benefits, it's a different benefit than necessarily economic gain. Such benefits are just as valuable, if not more valuable in chapters than the economic, because they are inside of us and they promote our community. Just to turn from this blind greed to greater prosperity, greater economic growth, and more economic growth, we know that a faulty measuring device, which we know is a measuring device that promotes inequities, promoting climate change, contributes to poverty and change. Rather, we should look at goals and standards that focus on how we want our community. How good an access to a home would we like to have? How meaningful is the availability of our mental - health services? How good health - care systems do we want? How happy are we to have? How little poverty do we want? So, how good a school system and a lot of reading understanding do we want, etc.? These are goals that need to be set in advance, and they need to focus on them, not setting goals that are largely colored by maintaining economic growth alone and thinking on this rather globally and taking other variables. They need to be placed at the very beginning. They are not to be evaluated afterwards, as so often appears to be done. I remember - I was away, but I got to read news and follow up the discussion about the government's activities on climate matters - when it was. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen asked the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister, the Guðlaugur of Thor Thor Þór Þórðarson, what he was going to do for the environment other than to make Iceland's water supply possible. The highest answer. A minister somehow, after some communication between them, said that me and the Piranians had something against interest, which he thought was the worst. That is exactly what I asked again: Is the government really aware that it has established these messages of prosperity and will use them if they find it so humorous that we are calling for more views than economic growth and government rule? Is the Independence Party, perhaps quite specifically, and the forward party, perhaps. Even if not entirely, are the prime minister in many parts of the world conscious of talking about the well - being referred to here? Where are they really? When it comes to their actual use and their actual application in economy, I cannot see that they are used. That's why I was asking. paritaprevir By the time we arrived, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson's son, Álúst Björn's son, would expect us to see this placed in the lead, e.g. for a financial plan we're expecting. I'd love to see that. I would be to see that such views were put first at the beginning of that work. How are we going to use a financial program to achieve the goal of improving the quality of our life, i.e. to increase the level of prosperity rather than just increase the economy? That's the question I leave here because the input of this bill is that it's a social advantage of art and culture and art. That's right. This is a social benefit because we have here the variety of artistry fools, the variety of people who create something great for us. It is the attitude that I would like to see in some way so many other things during this council and in so many matters, such as this. Only when it comes to unemployment and disability and such, i.e. To see the social benefits of not having people in poverty, to appreciate that it is a community benefit because people can live with dignity. We all feel better if everyone can be comfortable, and if everyone has a secure home and everyone can have the support they need, e.g. ... intheschools. This is what these prosperity guides are meant to be. So I'm glad I see some kind of clue about it here in this bill. But, of course, I want to see this in a much more complete way so that I can see that there's something serious going on behind this government. I'm sorry, I haven't seen it until now, and I call out for it and I say it. A minister to impress the importance of putting this into the shape of financial programs because it could really benefit the community. I'll have the office stopped, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. As an interested person on the matter of prosperity, I joined a prime minister's group, where we were building those standards so that I find this very interesting depression. Senator. When we were presenting these indicators, we were watching the social factor and, of course, also the economic factor, traditional economic growth and the like, and the environmental factors. As it turned out, we may need further guidelines on the environmental issue and have it directed to the government that this need to be considered. Of course, the big thing was that the standards were present. When we're talking about this bill that's under here, I think we can all agree on the importance of art and culture, and we can see it in government action and just in the highest order. A minister is in charge of what she stands for today. We are looking at creative articles and art and culture, also from this economic point of view, how we create employment for people and create real values through art and culture, which are measured in financial benefits, though it is also another kind of profit. So what I might want to ask is why. A senator is concerned if she has any idea how we could recommend this in the box we put because I can't see that we've gone into this. We talk about social wealth, that people can participate in social activities, sports and cultural activities, and that is something we can measure, and then we have the job and both might have something to do with the situation. But I wondered, " Can I go even further in that regard? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u56	A respectable president. Yes, I think we can certainly go further on these topics because I think it should be an independent goal to increase prosperity and that when the government's proposals are developed, e.g. in all of these budgets that have passed through here by Covid and the economic effects of the outbreak, and e.g. In financial and financial policies, we first ask: " Where do we need to do better when it comes to the level of prosperity? I can give you an example that comes to my mind right away. It's not good enough housing in Iceland, rent prices are too high, and all too often, too much of the people's entrance goes to pay for housing. renters don't have safe shelters, they have to move often, and they have to pay a lot of rent. This creates an imbalance, just for one example. The bioavailability of mental - health services is also consistent with the economic status of people, whether they need to wait for a psychiatrist or a mental - health professional to pass through the system, or they can afford to pay for a mental - health professional themselves. The same can be said, e.g. the ability of people to educate themselves and, of course, the ability to participate in the economic situation simply through the elderly and the elderly. I think all of this is prosperity. It's just how well we can share in the community, how safe we are, how much security net we have, and how well we can live. I feel that the goal should be to increase the number of people who can live a very good life and raise these factors to all. But I miss seeing on the projection itself that it is such a goal, especially when it comes to dealing with economic events because it made me feel that the general public had forgotten so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The Senator's answer is, and I think there's a lot we can agree on in this. The economic and quality of life work just worked out, creating these standards, and it was found in the last financial program. I agree completely with what. A senator needs to see the signal in the coming financial program to be followed by these indicators that we have set up and that we need a regular measurement of this, just as this committee stressed that I referred to earlier and participated in, as we see whether we are going up to these goals or not. And it seemed to me that it was as quick as possible. A senator mentioned the level of education, the availability of health care, and the entire amount of housing contained in those 39 measures put down there. But I was just trying to see if there was some idea that other standards in these verses that directly relate to what we are dealing with here, which is an artist's salary and the growing number of artistic workers. But I'm just saying that this work is already being seen, i.e. This work is already being taken into account by the board of directors, and we saw it in the last financial programme, and we need to see it further. I'm glad we can join here in this room to give the government a specific check in order to continue working with these ideas because I think they are very important and that we have these standards. I also want to go so far that we can even break these standards by age, by sex, and by all these factors, because that is exactly what will help us to take specific measures if needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u58	A respectable president. I think maybe we've been talking about this once in a while because I was talking about how I feel these scales should be sharp and different from the one I feel are behind. We have some measurements. We'll make some decisions. We can see how these decisions affect these measures. We're not thinking about making decisions with the aim of raising these units, if I try to explain them as simply as I can. The same is true for e.g. The concept of gender, that is somehow not in advance: How can we take economic action that increases sexual equality? I remember a lot of things like that. with the first economic package of the government of Covid, where the largest part went to concrete and malbik, in all kinds of road structure and monuments, and many of the things we criticized at the time for being a very man-made economic action. It's just men in the long largest part of the world that will actually get this money through this structure. This is very often the case in the budget too. Money is set up, and afterward it is spoken of as having homosexual and gender equality. But that is not predetermined, saying: "We're going to use these laws, so we're going to make sure they have at least one. Just as the sexes are affected, even trying to contribute to the equality of the sexes. It's always some kind of food after. That's what I'm trying to criticize with the boon references; they're not used as a prerequisite design; they're used as some kind of follow-up device on how the law works; they're not a result of the design. In terms of other criteria, due to lack of ability. A senator asked about it, and I think it's very important to clean the environment and that the struggle against the climate is part of these indicators and very important to get them started, and I feel that art, the ability to enjoy art and culture is, of course, also an enormous measure of society's quality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u59	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a change in artist's salary law. I don't think we need to argue about it in this hall that art is important as well as artists. Here we are talking about very good aims, supporting stage artists and musicians especially hit by the Covid limit. This may be the comment or notice that I and we of the Independence Party will make with the bill. We say: The goal is to try to meet them, as has been the case throughout the epidemic, who were affected by the limitations of the government. Therefore, we do not feel clear when this program is being suggested in the year 2022 by means of a distribution system on something ahead, so the system is built up, but it is now scheduled to expand the number of artists in 2020 when all the restrictions on Covid have been removed. It is of importance when this is done that the funds we are making are actually going to help those who have not already been able to take advantage of other public resources and that this will bring to those who are truly affected and lost by the actions of the government. But our goal is good, and we support the baseline bill, that these groups are lightweighted along with other groups that have been relieved by Covid. I would also like to mention that the art of investing in cultures and art and creative articles is of utmost importance. It's also a pleasure that I see on the bill, but I ask again, " How does that relate -- we're improving the limits -- that you're looking particularly at young people, getting new people in? ' I support it in my own self. So I also wanted my brief talk on this subject to inform me about it, including this. To achieve these goals and put more focus on helping new and young artists get started with their art and get their feet in working as artists, that I intend to submit a bill of honorary pay. That a gentleman's bill will be suspended. I think they might have been right in the past, but now the times have changed, and so I think it's right to put more focus on these new, young, creative artists. But in terms of the Honorable Artist's Prize, we can honor those who have done well for the Icelandic nation and we can find some other way of doing it than paying the gentleman's salary, which is also a limited resource because there are only 25 people a year who receive it, but there are a lot more artists in Iceland who do well and so. So I'm just gonna mention it here. When that bill is presented, we take it more seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u60	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speech and honesty. Is it correct to understand that the Independence Party party has made this issue a matter of warning? Secretary of culture? And is it true, then, that a panel of Independence Party makes it a condition to be changed to the Committee that it is a requirement for the members of the council to agree that those applying for this strength demonstrate an obvious payoff? Did I understand a word of it? A senator's right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u61	A respectable president. No, we do not understand that we have set any conditions or advantages, that is far from there. We just wanted to point out that we've been here on a general basis. We've met those who've suffered a loss of income. Here is a bill that is based on the same basis, but we want it to be discussed on the committee to see if they can be assured of the stagers and musicians who suffered a loss of income, such as those in many sectors - if they cannot be held at the same level. These are comments or what we would like to be discussed with this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't really understand what's going on. A senator is appropriate. Does he mean that artists sit at the same table as others who suffered a loss of income, or do we mean that the artists who suffered a financial loss have the possibility of applying for this job? Then I'd like to ask who. A senator only in his understanding of artists'honors, which has been a custom in particular for those who have had a very successful career, increased the wealth of the country in countries and out of countries, all of which have come from the shortest of a few hours, to put their sails together. Counts 'em out. A senator that we should stop giving them specific thanks for decades in behalf of an Icelandic nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u63	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, those who have contributed a great deal to Icelandic culture and lists all honors and thank you. I'm just saying that honor art is not the right way, because it's a very limited way. There are multitudes of artists who deserve recognition for their jobs but who do not come to this list of 25 people for various reasons. And if they continue in their art and want to continue, they can, for example, keep working. Apply to the artistry and continue there because no one is talking about removing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u64	Madam President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said he was going to put in a bill that would eliminate the artist's honor but as far as I'm next to it, and remember them had at least one. The majority of the top of the Board of Education and Education published that he was going to reexamine this arrangement. I was just wondering if he doesn't believe in the process there. It was decided that these lists would not be set aside for Christmas because of the need to reevaluate this arrangement. I wonder what. A senator will find a reason to intervene in that review, whether he is concerned that it will be done in an adequate way, or whether he simply has ideas other than what he has. A top-of-the-art Board of Education on how to resolve this matter. Then I'm pointing to a greater part of it. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u65	A respectable president. I was describing my personal political view of artists'honors, as I have since I entered the General Assembly in April 2013. It's always been clear that I haven't been their sponsor. I'm preaching that I'm going to set that up here on the program with this bill and see if there's more to it than that. Then I'm talking about the whole council, I'm not talking about the government parties, it's not gonna be a bill, because I'm not in the government, so they say. I have full faith in a global and educational committee and that they will come to the conclusion of the system we live in today. There's a law on this today, and the Board of Education and the Board of Education has to figure out how we're going to enforce them laws while they're not changed or not disintegrated. I have full faith in the work there, and I watch how it goes, and then it just turns out if my bill will go ahead. It's just gonna have to be seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u66	A respectable president. I can see why. The head of the General and Education Committee is here in the hall so she'll correct me if I understand the wrong thing here before Christmas. But my understanding was, and that was after reading the entry from the Jódís. Skúladóttir That there was a legal review here on the General and Education Committee. That's why I'm asking. A senator, because I think he's a little off the subject of universal education and education that has this case for consideration. Now I don't agree with what. A senator says it's supposed to be a dead end but I think he's working on it as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, a full-scale educational committee, i.e. More of it, if it doesn't agree with it. I wondered if it's the correct understanding, whether he really wanted more of the General and Education Committee to change these topics because there's a possibility that there's just a harmony between them. Either the committee is and what? A senator agrees or disagrees about how this is going to happen, and I'm just wondering if it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u67	A respectable president. I haven't formally investigated it to everyone in the greater part of the General and Education Committee whether they agree with me that it should be excluded from an artist's award and I can honestly say that I don't expect everyone in that part to agree with me on that, but I don't expect that at all. I'm just building up, as I told you earlier, I'm supposed to be here at the General's nine-year experience, so I've put this case on for myself, it's my political opinion, and it's been since I first came into the General Hall, and I've often expressed it here before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. If I understand him correctly, he and the House of Independence are under some kind of notice in this case. I just want to hear from what I'm talking about. A senator what he feels mainly about this bill. Where's the problem? Of course, it is quite clear that this bill is fundamentally in contrast with the terms of general support procedures for the job life that are subject to a fixed income loss, etc. It is here looking forward to sponsoring an artist's pay fund, depending on certain distribution regulations, which are not taken in any way by the loss of income. If that's what it's like. A senator is not pleased with them. He is really, in fact, if I understand him correctly, calling after everything, everything else. But I would find it interesting to hear a little more clearly what is interfering with this matter by independents.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u69	A respectable president. What I and the Independence Party have mentioned about this matter is what we would like to consider here on this matter. It was full of stage artists and musicians who were greatly affected by the Covid and Covid targets, and it is because these two groups of artists - much more groups under the artists than those two groups have been taken because they were affected. We just wanted to say that it would be possible to see if the distribution of these funds, because it is spoken of as a regulation change and so on, to look to those who have either not been affected by other resources or who have obviously suffered the consequences of the Covid limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u70	A respectable president. I'm a little curious to hear how to get it exactly around, anyway. A senator envisions changes in this bill in that it will not only be based on the fact that a ball of these extras is running toward young people but also on special conditions for them to be in financial trouble or something like that. Is this something a natural? A member of Parliament and members of the Independence Party imagine putting forward in the form of a change form or with some sort of legal authority for Ministers? But this is what I'm best aware of as far as I'm concerned is concerned about the artistic system as it has so far. If it was the aim of this bill to respond specifically in a specific way to the economic blow that specific artists have done, etc., I think it will be absolutely necessary to reexamine the methodology behind it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator might agree with me on that? [[The president calls.]] Does the Minister need to take this bill back into his Ministry and remake it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u71	Wait a minute. Councilmen showing respect for the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u72	A respectable president. We fully support the objective of this bill, and it is to help stagers and musicians, to support them, and to place additional support there because of the effects that Covid had. I trust the General and Education Committee to take this discussion and see, in the processing of this case, whether those who certainly suffered a loss of income in their artistic work because of these limitations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u73	A respectable president. It's fine that the head of the General and Education Committee had requested to establish a rosary following this discussion, especially with the Honorable Artist's Prize, because that's exactly what I wanted to mention here. Although we're not talking about a gentleman's salary here, we're talking about artist's employment, it's still a little mixed up in the conversation. It is true that this is the case and it was a clear decision for Christmas, that we in the General and Education Committee intend to rethink a law on artist's awards. We are on our way to that work, and part of that work was just getting representatives from the Ministry who have been working on this field to come see us. So I've been so eager to get this excellent bill into the committee, both so that we can have a conversation with the Ministry about what is available here, but also about the art industry and the Ministry's vision on the whole, as I believe it will help us in the work ahead of us on the review of the Honor Arts Act. I just want to say that, so it must have been said here and over again, that this review does not involve laying down a law on honor artists. It's not part of that review. But, hey. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was only honest about his stand, which he has so often repeated here on a talk, that he wants to lay them down. On the other hand, there have been speculations in the Committee on the Prize of Honor and the purpose of their service, including those of the Governing Body. when making a decision to put a party on the honor list, whether it is reasonable for the person to be on that date until his/her death, as the law is actually assuming today. Should it be possible to take someone from the list if the council agreed on that, if that were the case, or should this be a payment for a year or two at the same time? Is it reasonable to assume that the payment will be limited to a certain age, as the law indicates today, and especially to the prospective aspect of how honor-employing is paid? This is all we need. Let's take a look at the future. But that bill we have here. I want to say that I think it is absolutely important that we take good care of art and culture. I don't think art and culture are just - and now I'm using the word ◯bara, it may not be appropriate to use it - it's improving the quality of life of the people and the people, our culture is important to us. But it's just as much that we're watching more of Icelandic employment here. We see that the software industry has established itself as a fourth support in the export of the population. The export revenues have increased considerably, and it is not all art and culture, but it is part of it, indeed, and I think that the creative and creative sectors, such as culture, are based on the skills, knowledge, and ability of people to think outside the box and create new things. I have a lot of bullshit faith in creative articles, and I believe in Icelandic and Icelandic artists. So I think that we need to do a lot of work, and we all work hard to live up to these professional conditions. I think that the changes made in the Council now in the beginning of this election period were of great importance, even though they were criticized here. One of them is even to the maximum. Minister, now the minister of culture and commerce, was formerly the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, led by a huge Ministry of Education and Culture, with the basis of culture in the country at all levels of education. Then, in the art sector, it was often heard that they needed a special education for cultural matters. Artists felt lost inside this superabundant department of sports and the like. So I think to make up culture and trade is a big and important step in building even more fully under this creative site of work, where we are active humanizing artists here. And only because I see people turning up here, and they're definitely connected with some notices - I didn't give this bill that is here, but it's just so that there's a difference in artists' opinions in the House of Independence as much as in the community, and we need to find ways to shape an arrangement that most people can accept. This bill is a little suggested that we are watching the effects of the Korean virus epidemic, and we know, of course, that this virus epidemic had an impact on society. That, however, had a tremendous impact on stage audiences, especially. I think what we have to think about in this matter, and I've understood these speculations about a warning like this, is that it's anything so that the way was to reward someone who had already received strength from other sources, while others might fall between ships and docks. We're going to get this case covered at the time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and I look forward to dealing with it, and I look forward to getting a client to discuss this subject. I think that gives us a solid foundation to prepare for the next year, the next assembly, where I expect a creative article to be high on the list.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u74	Madam President. I thank the senator for his passage. I would like to ask on the very basis of what happened. A senator himself has said that he had not taken notice of the matter from the Party of Independence had some members of Congress done so. I think it's shocking that we are repeatedly getting some of the cases that are not fully supported by the government parties without our knowing exactly why. The premonition must always be a warning that something will happen during a concierge treatment, that people want to see a certain change. If I recall correctly, even a permanent minister is to be made aware that the Council of the Council is informed of the release of a council case. So I wondered if we should adopt the custom when it comes to the committee's committee's decision is given only to members of Congress in general or to parts that have made matters so that the rest of us really know how to deal with the situation, whether we are fighting some point on the matter that the members of Congress have made, whether or not, a great warning that we need not to deal with them. It may be such a general speculation, but I would still like to know who is the source of this particular case. Though it was not a whale. paritaprevir Butttodddóttir Haraldsdóttir, which guards come from the House of Independence? What is it that the senator's members want us to do in this matter in the treatment of the General and Education Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have noticed that members of the administrative body find it very interesting to ask in advance of individual council members. I can't answer exactly who the warnings are, but that's, like, what's wrong. A senator knows very well, not uncommon at all, and even relatively common, that individual senators have either general warnings or very specific advance notice on the bill. The matter was passed out of the government classes just to enter here into the council treatment. I'm saying for my part that I didn't take notice of the situation, and I do it as if nothing very often. Of course, whether we are in a government or a government position, we all get the issue discussed, we get a lot of comments and comments out of town, and that is what makes it often a big change in politics. I think it's a sign of the character and function of the democracy in conquistancy. In the past, the very idea that the council was a small percentage of time stamping on a case of some stewards has not been the case since I attended the council. It is very common for us to change matters considerably. But now I'm talking in general, huh? A senator, not about this bill that's here, but in general as a warning. Hv. paritaprevir Will, Árnason, earlier, expressed his warning, and there were no doubt others who agreed with it. If I understood the discussion correctly, there was some anxiety about whether this bill could mean that we were making up for some loss that had already been replaced by other means, but at the same time there might be some falling between ships and docks. The speakers are concerned about those who work behind the scenes. I'm not sure that we can, in a discussion on this matter, solve the whole thing, but it could certainly bring up a discussion about that lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u76	President. Thank you. A senator of this passage. Of course, it is interesting to know whether groups have acted in advance because such cases are sometimes killed. We remember, for example. Following the high national park, which was here for the last winter, and the convention advance made the milelong warning so that it became clear from the day on that the matter would not go any further. That is exactly what the convention advance did for me, and I think it's a good example. It's a term that always bothers me a little, general notice. I think people may just have to look inside and see if there's anything they can do. I think the better to handle matters must be specific in the sense that he is saying in principle what you are doing in advance, and even what effect you think that this is your opinion. A public agent doesn't say anything. It doesn't tell you whether you're gonna get in the way, if you want to see it change, or if you're just Hispanic to say that you're a little high school, but you're not gonna have any problems. It was an outcast, Madam President. I just wanted to mention what I had discussed in the discussion on the last subject, the budget bill that is being passed on to the budget committee, that the General and Education Committee will probably need to consider in this context in the context of the bill, as the impact assessment of the bill that we are currently discussing is expected to be a financial impact on a group of 1830 budgets in 2020, but the 100 million I haven't found in the budgetary bill we were paying for earlier today. This lack of communication between the advisers that has caused these two bills to appear to be not speaking properly is something I trust in a global and educational committee and a financial committee to fix up with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. As for the second part, the financial impact on this bill, I have to admit that I was first in the meaning that we had made significant changes in the budget of this team. I'm in trouble now. A legal committee also makes me recall that very much. At least we were talking about an increase in artists there. This bill may be more extensive than that and, as it says here, that something needs to be done on the budget as well. Of course, we will look to and apply it. Only when it comes to the other questions. The senator for general warning - and here we're not discussing this bill but the interesting subject which is warned of the Board of Directorates - I have seen it this way, and I think it's important, that the council is independent of its profession. When a senator approves a matter of Congress from his own party, it is quite the opposite. A senator admits that he will support the bill in a final photograph out of the Senate Hall. Of course, the ministers will not handle their affairs after the first. End. It leads to the highest. Minister of this matter into the conniving treatment. In recent years, I believe it has been this way that committees are changing matters. I think it is an example of a degree of strength in the council that the council does not work as if someone had a stamp. Rather, it is accepted as the reviews and work that are taking place inside the committee. I was particularly aware of this during the last term, where I sat to film my mouth. A financial and business committee, and we received quite a few cases related to the crown virus and they made significant changes inside the Committee. So I don't agree with it at all. A senator says that if a member of that body may have some sort of doubt, he would be absolutely unnecessary. Nevertheless, he will accept the case for his own part in therapy, but he is not necessarily promising to press the green button after that treatment is over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u78	Madam President. The bill we are discussing here includes the 200 - month wage that comes in addition to the field service that was assigned in January 2022. I asked the highest. Whether those who received a job's salary would be able to arrange more months now if they sought it. I might as well have been able to ask if, for example. would be looked to if these people had been supported in any other form, etc., but now they were basically answering that it was something that would be of no particular concern to a minister or to the council, that would be more of the intervention committee itself, and that it was acting by certain rules and procedures that determined this. But now it is true that members of the Independence Party here give talks where they are, in effect, calling for the council to be involved in some way or provided for it, to appoint the distribution committee or committees some restrictions on this precisely, to make sure that it is either those people who are the most paid or who are in financial poverty who are assigned to the artists, or that some who have received, were used for compensation, were excluded from the artists. There's a certain discrepancy I'd like to hear from. A senator's feelings for and her kind of visualization, the role we play at the council in these matters and the role of a minister. This may be a little clearer to this bill's report, how it's all thought, to be more guidance on this, really.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't exactly know if and how I really can answer that. As mentioned earlier, I did not give myself a warning and was trying to describe it in my speech. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason did well in advance. to answer the question, and to answer that question in reply too. Of course, there has been a little discussion about these paths. It is quite clear that the government has taken a very powerful measure of action in the wake of the crowning virus epidemic in order to maintain the level of employment and to support the country's homes. Of course, the contribution was one way. It was also to be used by monarchs and, hence, by independent artists. There was criticism of the project, and many thought it was too complicated, and I was in the sense that we had gone along to try to simplify it. At least one of our responsibilities was involved. The Economic and Business Committee during the last terms. Nevertheless, it is true that we receive a report from the European Union of Artists that describes the effect of the Korean epidemic on their profession and that the measures taken were not sufficient or not served properly by that group. I believe there is one of the reasons why we have this matter under which we live. Otherwise, I'll just say what I said earlier, I think we need to see if we're not sure that we're looking overall on the stage all the time. I can't quickly see it. A senator here mentioned, there needs to be some increased clarity in the report. But there's certainly something we can consider in a pan-European and educational committee at a committee meeting if it's needed by members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u80	Madam President. I may be primarily trying to figure out what the Independence Party is doing. It is spoken as if it were possible to rule out the artists who have been given extra benefits, that is, the word that was used. It is likely to refer to some of the strengthening or general support measures under attack. I don't know. If there's something like that on the part of the management board, stirring up this bill and setting up the conditions or setting up the distribution committees so under conditions, that there should be some research to see if candidates have been given any support in the early phase of the pandemic, I don't think it's too good. What this discussion may reflect, however, is that people seem to have very different ideas about really what the purpose of this conversation is. It's a bill that actually means increasing the number of artists and, yes, there are certain types. That's what's supposed to be the biggest part of all goes to young people. If the meaning was true, and if a number of people in the management team are willing to support the art sector in any other way, especially those who have suffered a major loss of income or financial resources, then it would have to be replaced completely differently. Then it must be necessary that the case be taken back into the Ministry, and it will be done in any other way. The difference is that the number of artists and the number of people in the number of financial situation are increasing. [[The president calls.]] I'm just trying to figure out what it is really that members of the Independence Party are calling after being done with this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u81	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. But I say again: I may not be the right person to answer that question exactly, because the senator here did not take notice of the bill. As we have seen, though, there are certainly some members of the council who have made comments, and there are such general speculations. One of the views that have been heard is that this is, of course, a temporary increase, I repeat a temporary increase, a job's salary and support, and that this article truly became a stumbling block in Covid. At the same time, of course, there is very high expectations that all of us are so thirsty in culture and being together to enjoy music, drama, and culture that there may be a lot to do, and hopefully there will be quite a lot to be done with artists in the next few hours. I'm sure there's some kind of depression, too. But I can't answer why. More like a senator. I don't think there's any reason to make some major changes in this. As I told you before, we'll just take this into the committee and review the reviews we get and perform our roles. Then it will just have to be revealed who is behind the case and if the committee agrees on any change if it is deemed necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u82	Madam President. We're here to discuss this bill at the highest level. The minister of culture to change the artist's wage law in terms of a temporary increase in employment pay and for sponsoring artists. For this reason, I would like to discuss only the artist's environment and how it has changed over the past few years, for it is not just an epidemic of crown virus that has changed the artistic working environment but also the situation that they are given. In 2011, the artist's salary was about 275,000. on a monthly basis, 410,000 are now 490,000. Of course, the increase is considerable as we look at it, 49% over a ten - year period, but at the same time, the pay sheet has increased by 96%. If the artist's salary had increased in accordance with general pay during the past ten years, the prize would be only 537,000 dollars. In a month, and it makes a difference, because we must not forget that this is a contractor's payment. The government tax manager published statistics as dictators, unique artists, should register his income as minimum limits for the non-cational population and the figure as the head of the head of the tax is 582,000 per month. It's nearly 100,000 bucks. a higher number that the tax puts out is the least of all that an artist earns to survive and the money the government trusts to provide for us with temporary support for our best artists. Of course I'm glad there's going to be more months, but we have to look into all this. There has been a significant reduction in the number of artists in recent years, a significant one, and this shows us the analysis of BHM that came out late last year. It concluded that low pay may explain part of the contractions in certain articles, e.g. published in a publication, but for example, over three Icelandic books were published in the year 2019 to over five books per 1,000 people. This is for Covid. We need to decide whether we're going to let the artists survive famine or whether we're really going to support the artists who carry our propaganda around the world, which greatly increases the number of tourists who come here, which come on the other side to beat the eyes of Icelandic nature and, on the other hand, the spread of Icelandic lists on foreign soil. I did not tire of referring to it, as I was traveling with a band whom I served as an agent for the fact that one summer 25 people in Mexico City were learning Icelandic - 25. This was almost because they had come to know the country through artists who used their music, very much Björk and Sigrros, but also Icelandic movies. It's a priceless treasure we have here. We must not speak as if we were extending some kind of charity to our artists. We can't have it in that form. When we decide that the artist's salary is 490,000, we need to remember that the contractor's salary equals 775 percent of the salary, even less than 70%, I think it's 67% that is the subject of pay. Artists have to pay for a pension fund. Artists have to pay all their taxes and duties, and artistry has been highly intertwined in comparison with others. That's what matters. In recent years, there has been a major recession in total pay paid in the cultural sectors, and the artist's job pays has the lowest market wage. It was incredibly interesting in the Covid epidemic when we were in the middle of nowhere. A welfare committee has brought in artists. I took the initiative to end up rooted in this sector, I know it, I know it being in this business, that the system works so badly for this group. When they brought their papers into the Work Office to tell us that they had lost their job, the question always comes to mind: Where do you work? Then the artists had to say, "Yes, I'm here teaching two hours a week here, and then I'm playing my musical instrument there. " And I'm also taking care of this band, and so on. And the computer at the Work Office just didn't understand. She couldn't figure it out. That is why this group was affected when it came to picking up those who lost their savings, lost their progress in these times, because it is a non-conventional work ratio in the others and these. However, this is not the only cause of the crown virus. It is also a political decision. There is something in our environment that makes it a 25% reduction in the number of active people in employment cultures. There is a quarter who has decided to do other jobs because they are so insecure and so little to understand. He's very small, I found, for example. In a welfare committee, and that's often what you find in the conversation here too. There is little understanding of these developments. In 2008, nearly 7,000 people worked in professional cultures. Today, more than 5,000 work in these sectors. It's very important. Just before the present government began, a number of artists were active, almost 6,800 people serving in art and culture. In 2020, for Covid, these were over 5,000. This has happened in the time of this government. I think it would be good to think a little bit of that. Could it be that even though the work salary has increased, the entire environment is not ideal for them? You have to apply for these extremely irresponsible incomes. You go to Lotto every year. Four hundred and ninety thousand are brought to contractors, which, of course, are much less in provision, and the months are, of course, very few. Writers'pay fund contained 555 months of distribution, which was applied for 2,700 months last year. The budget of the strategists was 190 months for distribution and 2,100 months for application. This shows something in which location this is. Increased support for art and culture needs to be established, and this needs to be made so that there is some forethought. I hear from those who run the houses now, and I also hear from those who are waiting for the support here, that time is also very important. It was announced that these measures would be taken at the end of the year, and we heard about it. But now, as it is the end of March, this bill will come and those who apply, such as Full - time lists, they are at risk of not being able to use the means of supporting them because all houses have been booked. Why? Because the number of houses has decreased substantially in the history of this government, the houses where the field lists can be included, where groups of stage groups may have a chance to bring their own shows. Many of them, so to speak, have become tourist attractions, hotels everywhere. But this is also because governments do not provide any support, such as is known in many North countries, such as the United States. and in many parts of Europe, provide no support for the homes themselves who need to provide these arts. There was a theater out here in Nesi. There was a theater at The House, the Castle, which hosted quite an amazingly pleasant display. There was a theater in NASA. Of course, Chernobyl is a great house. They were all small theaters. But somehow the foundation for business has been extremely difficult for them. I'd like the last two minutes to let me have a word on this judgmentless idea at any time. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year to put down the artist's honors. The awards of artists can be won only by those who have spent their careers or by a substantial proportion of its arts or by the amendment of their arts or by the success of their professions in Iceland or internationally. The trade of artists' awards by gender and art should be considered in the category of gender and should be given to an artist full until 72 years of age and should be the same as the artist's salary at any given time, but after 70 years they will be 80% of the staff. Now, Madam President, if we're going to do to individuals what we've decided to sit in the honors of artists, to go to these boolus, many hundred artists a year where artists have to provide an accurate description of what they're going to do for their support, we'll throw these valuables entirely upon our resources and potentials to thank these artists for the incredibly unselfish work of all careers. Then we'll just throw it away. And for what? I'll be a dog if I'm not gonna stand here for days and nights and reason this out with members of the Independence Party, which seems to be incredibly low in understanding of art and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u83	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for her speech. My heart beats in a similar way, as she spoke about, and with great respect for this group that has colored our lives just since the person came into existence. We read in books about poor artists who have not had knives and spoons but who were always called in when something fun was to happen, and so are we. If we're going to have fun, it's the art that makes things fun, so the world without culture would be a insignificant world. Hv. A senator mentions a number of contracts and numbers of those who are not available. Where are they standing? I mentioned it here in counter today that there are a group of people who work behind the scenes and do creative events without necessarily being in the front. Where does that group stand? Do we see that this group is being joined? The crew, the crew at the pubs, have been playing at annual festivals, people who are not necessarily appreciated as great artists to sell plates or to publish something, but these are people who are still giving us satisfaction that we really need. Do we see that the interests of this group are being cared for?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. No, of course not. The musicians I thought were a bit of a skunk. A senator is most concerned with looking at those who have been part of the popular music, but there are exceptions. We're seeing some strings get in. But just to inform those who might be watching them, it's not that you just put your name in a pot and it's pulled out. When applying for a job salary, you will only give a dodrian what you intend to do. Of course, all the people I know and are in this, they hope to be assigned as many months as they know the task will take, but it's not usually that way. Then they try to make their income, allowing the amount of money to cover more months in order to complete the task. But those assigned to the staff also need to see that there is some produce, so I don't know if the ones in these gigs are applying for, at least You don't see much of them in the distribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u85	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I'm worried about this group that doesn't exist -- I don't want to mention the word "Elite," but it comes up to my mind because there's just a lot of people, artists and others, we can call it street artists, the people who are with us and who treat us when we're enjoying a list, but they're not necessarily high on the top, in the symphony field or anywhere. We also know about the theaters, not the National Theater or City Theatre, but of its own small theaters, people who have not obtained contracts at the great theaters, and who have been alone, struggling to set up a show when this has been said, but in Covid nothing. But one has felt like these measures should be some kind of Covid operation. The host was strengthened, and there have been grants of all kinds. I experience it so that there is a large group of artists and people who are connected with art in some way and who are working to promote art that is just completely forgotten. I told you earlier, I have friends who have only lived at poverty, and I didn't have food because they were single, maybe there were musicians, and they were working at a music store as a soloist, and then they're just at home. They're not getting anything. I'm worried about this forgotten group that's so important to us, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u86	Madam President. When all the basis for artism disappears, not just at the Covid time, but because there's not enough support available, people slip out of the class. That's what I was pointing out that had happened in the time of that government. The number of persons who work in this sector, registered to the government tax manager, has decreased by 25% since the reign of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It's just that way. That's a fact. To me, this is an incredible waste because most of these people have educated themselves in their arts or at least That's a lot of people. Of course, whether you are in stage art, music, art, or other forms of music, art, or other activities, you are amazingly happy to have a steady career. But I don't think that there are nearly anybody who has a steady job as authors or a steady job unless they make a premium of paying and receiving fixed pay for it. The stage art is more common, and of course we have an instrument player, e.g. Sinfo's, but others don't really. It's just a violation of educated cast-off artists, and they get to sign, and others are in the playoffs. Remuneration for tickets, but that's not enough. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is so important that governments understand and understand the scope of the environment and support so that we do not kill cultures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u87	Madam President. Finally, at last, said the highest. Minister in his career speech. I thought the same thing too, but I think that maybe we had been dealing with the different parts of the ◯ end when we thought about it. V.E.G. A minister told me that he was referring to the need to wait for a week before setting the matter up for a discussion after the program was started here at the council. I thought, at last, the bill is about people's jobs in the fields in 2022, when the first quarter of that year is about to pass, even a little earlier, so people in the business might have had a little insight of their own survival. In this case, it is possible to start spoiling some of the projects that are applied, as is the case. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, covered by experience as an agent of orchestras in the past, so correctly pointed out, it's just not easy to book out the year, when it is a long time ago, a position to show art, whether it's music or stage art. Let's say I'm part of a team of five people, and I'd like to get on decks sometime next fall. If so, I might have had to get a word of pay that started in January so that I could do something about it and do some work and write and provide for everything that needs to be done to get it started. Now all these people have to run faster in order to achieve less than that amount of money, have not been rewarded, and are earnings of 490,000 a month per person. But at last, I'd like to express my joy that here is an attempt to make an earmark part of a month's pay for people in a certain age group. Young stage artists and young musicians receive an earmarked 50 months' wages in each category. I think it's a bit smart to make sure that recruits in the business, which I could also imagine, maybe having more trouble with their feet than the older ones, may not also be in such a secure facility, they're people who have everything else and even more financial concerns than the older people in the business -- just good that we'll take special care of the group and something that we could look at then at at the overall reexamination that will be on this system in the next few years. There I feel that we too were allowed to look for increased flexibility. Now it is so that the law as they are supposed to do 50 months ago to designers, 435 to artists, 555 to writers, which I actually think is so beautiful that I don't want to let it go by any artifacts, 190 months go to stage artists, 180 to musicians, and 190 to composers. These are the proportions and numbers found in some conversation with the Union of Artists, with the grass roots, the people who know what the business looks like and what it might be most natural to split the cake. In that respect, it is a good idea to start with that point. This gives the system 1,600 months to enter the artistry industry, but wouldn't it be a good idea to say that it was such a minimum number of months in each sector, and it might be another 800 or 1,600 months that were not earmarked but would be a little floating? So if one year were a really bad time for stagers, it would be creative, it would have good applications that would come into mass spectrometers into the assessment committee, that group would grow, that sector would grow, not on the basis of lyrics in law texts from 2009, but on the basis of the ideas that springing in the community today. It's just something I wanted to put in with those who are going on these issues on the General and Education Committee in the next few weeks. Then, as I talked to you about what. paritaprevir The secret of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who is so lucky to be in both the General and Education Committee, which is being given this matter for discussion, and a financial committee, must make sure that the budget is not missing in this operation, because it is presented in a paper with the cultural and business secretary's bill that is expected for the 100 million who are added to the system on budget 2022. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, thought that this came into the budget of this year, but apparently the Ministry of Culture saw it differently. The problem, however, is that these 100 million do not appear in the budgets we discussed earlier today. All we need to do is wear belts and bracelets in that we do not suddenly find ourselves in need of some money when people come and collect the additional commission from an artist. I was not going to extend this discussion, which has been well over the stage, and perhaps very little that needs to be added, but then I just wanted a little while, like the other. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, to state a serious question about the entirely canceling of the award system. It can be changed, indeed, like all the systems we've built, but I'd like to change it in a way that's taking care of it. This is an idea that came up in a review of Icelandic artists' Union that reminds me of seven, eight, even ten years, in which they suggested that instead of having this small group on the low pay, low honors, we would have a larger group, which, in turn, gave us a measure of width. They would be people who had done quite a good life's work at the time of their age that they might be putting less emphasis on the arts, was about to retire, but would get a few progressives, but they would also have some role. You see, the Alliance suggested that the honor-paying system be tolerated into someone, I think they called it the Academy, the Academy of Arts and Culture. There it would be, we could call it a body of elders, I don't think we would be insulting anyone if we told anyone, who could be counseling the government on a number of things, could keep a public discussion about cultural matters, could be just a little fun, such a school for old artists. That's a direction I'd much rather go in than the direction I had. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned, just letting all the air grow out of this balloon. But it's a late discussion and something I'm not gonna say, I just wanted to mention it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u88	A respectable president. I thought it was interesting to listen to what happened. A senator mentions an increase in flexibility that I find exciting to look at. He mentioned a double number, that there are some other 1,600 who could be assigned in some way. That's what I think of it. I think this is where we'd be creating a chance for those who drop between ships and docks. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said they were applying for these strengths, but there were only over 400 people who would get them. It's just a small fraction of those who need it. I'd be excited that this kind of idea would be developed in any way, if it were. A senator has thought more of this. There are many imaginative people out there who do not necessarily have access to money but would certainly influence us and their society and environment by having access to funding, which is, in fact, to strengthen in some way, although people are not necessarily paid but that they can support some social event. I think it's interesting and I'd like to hear it. A senator's comment is a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u89	Madam President. No, I haven't really thought about it. I don't have a fully formed idea here. This is something that started in a group of Pirata's coffee rooms where we were discussing collaborating ideas about artistic employment and ideas that Piratars have long promoted in terms of civil pay, unprovable layoffs in which the flexibility is complete. Then people will just get a basic change in their hands, and they can do so with their lives as they please. It may be a very comfortable safety net for e.g. People who want to get caught up in the creative articles not to worry about basic progress. What we began to think about is this: There may be positive results in such a development system, such as artists'employment fees, are having some conditions, or sorting them according to art because we want to protect certain diversity, we don't want everything to just get dried up in musicians because it happens to be so insanely good writers one year with applications. By maintaining one of the barriers, polymorphisms will be assured, and then peaked by free months that can float between them, the magic can begin to appear. There is the flexibility into the system so that it can adapt to the ideas as they are in the community at that point. If there are a lot of writers this year, then all the articles are given the foundation, but the column of authors is just gonna be a little big. Then the same with the other articles. But I agree with what. Senator, I think this is an exciting idea, and it gave me a little lift when we talked about it in a room earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. There are words first. That's the way it is. The ideas are part of the conversation. When we discuss a conversation, things arise that we can work with in the future. That's why I think this discussion is good and can be used in further discussions about the environment we've been living in are artists and our artists all that's been through sweet and sour making this community more diverse and enjoyable. I just thought, when I heard what I was saying. A senator speaks of this, that we have an arrangement called national conventions, and in these parish programmes have been given funds to support national activities in various ways, pioneers working on special projects and interested people who want to set up art events that have then been installed in their home country. For example, I heard at a convention of the Federal Union members in the South where there is a cool and progressive understanding of the Southern Symphony band, which, of course, needs money to drive him. There were lofty ideas about her, and there was a manager and a manager. All that costs money. It would be nice to hear an attitude about how we could cultivate the grafts that are in the country to work on the rest of the culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u91	Madam President. The bill we're discussing today is about the salary of artists, but the ideas are what they are. A senator might mention more than that, what we could just call sceptre creative articles. That's why I always find it a little strange when a certain community group talks down an investment in a more creative society, more creative society, because it's quite an expensive investment compared to what we get back, not only in the form of happy moments, but also, if we want to be boring, in currency revenues of exports and all that. But that's not the main thing. The important thing is art because of it. Today, we have various assignments that we should strengthen and that we should increase them. We should work hard to emphasize that they will be able to complete the country because artistic creations can be practiced anywhere. It is manipulative, and it enriches the community. It is all recommended to put money on such projects in order to strengthen the inhabited earth around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u92	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. The minister of culture and commerce for this bill is Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. Once, culture is the basis for a good community, and art is something we really need to invest in as a community. Yes, if I had known how to sing and dance, I would probably have ended up as a stage artist, for some 33 years ago, I applied for the Drama School, was going to follow in my mother's footsteps, who was a learned actor but, in fact, ended up as a math teacher. But even if we were here talking about an increase in sponsorship or support for artists, I would have wanted to see much more. But I know it's a fight that's at the highest. Minister has to fight inside the government, I'm sure she would have wanted to put a little more into this. But we need to reason as a community on how we can support art, and I especially want to look to new artists, young artists. I remember that before the election, I met some young designers who said that they didn't really want to apply for artists, that they were so few months away that they felt they were taking something from the older people. That's why I like to see that in this bill, earmarks are being made strong for people under 35 years of age. We need to find out together as a community how we can support innovation and artists, especially the young. I think there's been some good ideas here, like expanding the pot, but maybe it doesn't have an earmark all over it and so on. I like it. But there's one thing that I crossed my mind about hearing, and it's that these are contractors. I always thought it was payment that went all the way. It's kind of stupid that we're taking out one pocket and then this goes back in part into the state. We needed to find a way to be free of taxes for art support. I hope we can somehow pass it through at the highest. Secretary of finance, maybe when we've given him too much chocolate or cookies or something out here in the cafeteria. But it's good, we have more to do, and I know that that that's what it is. All we need to do is figure out how we get the whole body to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u93	President. Thank you. A senator for his fine passage and for others who have expressed themselves here today about this good bill. Secretary of culture and commerce. We'll go over it as we're supposed to. I'm so happy that the bill has come out, and I hope we can do it fast and well through the council. Like what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson pointed out that after two years of ban, there are a lot of people, and it is also necessary to consider the foundations mentioned here today. I just think of it in the end that if we're special and successful in anything, from land mine to our day, from Snorri to Laxness's time, and from all those that have followed, we've written books, music, video games, and things, that's exactly what they're doing in the software business. From these works we are recognized around the globe, and there are 3 billion in innovations here that benefit from the sector closely related to this one. You could call this the innovation fund of the list or whatever else we choose. I think we're supposed to be quick to settle this case and we've been able to find a great many things to do. I'm not gonna say anything more because I know it's the best. A minister is on his way to a symphony concert in the name of Ukraine. I wish to the highest. Ministers, congratulations on this good bill and of you who have come up with good tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u94	President. I'm just saying: Every investment in art is going to come back a lot. We've seen it with our musicians. We've seen it with our actors. We've seen it with our artists. It creates currency, it creates tourism, and we just need to figure out how we get everyone to understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u95	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Congress members for a very good discussion. There's a lot of things I just want to come in before the bill goes to the left. General and Education Committee. All I want to say is what ideas are. paritaprevir Will, Árnason, of course, says that we're going to shut down the artists'wages, that's not so, of course, my opinion. The idea is that we're going to reexamine the system, increase the transparency and precognition. All I can say right here is that one of the points that in this bill is that we have a group 35 years old and younger. Then we'll have the artist's job and the so-called honor department. We've been critical of the artist's salary since the last distribution, where many of us have, let me tell you, even the best writers were killed by the artists, even people who've written dozens of books. And this, of course, is something that we need to think more carefully, and the review will work out. Vala case Helgadóttir that there had been a decrease in certain arts. I would like to point out that in other arts, such as in stage art, there is considerable increase, and the same is true of movies. But it is true what passes by. Of course, a senator says that we should take a look at ourselves and consider why this decrease is taking place, and I agree. Senator, we can do better with artistic work environment. That is why we greatly increased the artistry today. I just say it to the House of Congress: I wish we had done it sooner. Now we're building a little bit of a foundation to promote this environment, and we're also thinking about it - and not just thinking about it, I think it's very normal that this group is worth the price, like other media, and we're working on it. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason had questions about why this distribution would take place now that we'd taken care of everything. Then I just want to point them out. A senator, if we are going to make artists, compare with company in travel service, that what has happened to them, is that their own money has been raised and that there are a lot of short-term debts. For the jobs that have been badly affected by Covid, we have a social and moral obligation to back up the individual. I was very much in favour of the fact that we were going to use the so - called ketnesian economics at the beginning of the Covid epidemic, and it was very successful for the government. The economy was successful. We're seeing a slow economic recovery, the unemployment rate is 4.9%. What now threatens the situation is an international and unfortunately, and we must, of course, stand up for the watch. A lot of good ideas came up here, and I think we're going to have a very good partnership with the council and the Ministry, and I'm also counting on it. The General and Education Committee will review the matter and take into account the discussion that has taken place here today. Finally, I want to agree with the members of Congress who have spoken in such a way that it is really the culture that is our strongest support, whether in our country or in our export. There are musicians, such as Björk, the young Laufey Lín, the Masters of Men, artists like Ragnar Kjartansson. I can, like, stand here all night listing all of our great artists. Of course, we should not forget that there are many who have begun their career in receiving the award of artists. I will take great pride in fostering and strengthening this work environment. Just in the end, here was just a mention of design, and we'll put a special emphasis on it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u96	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage here at the end. I'd like to direct her to a question, I'd like to hear from her just how she feels about the criticisms that have been presented here today and may have been the greatest of all since the members of the Independence Party and especially since then. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. He has wondered whether this bill is meant to improve the damage caused by the limits, whether the way in which it is provided really gives to those who need help, and he is concerned that it may be possible for someone who has already received other official provisions. It's the same language that happened in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir But the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir did not take the same strong stand that he did not take in advance. She wondered, though, if this way was being done, so I quote her correct, rewarding someone who had already received strength from another source. Then, in the second speech, she said that there was anxiety that this bill might mean that we were making up for someone who had already received an compensation through other means. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how she feels about this presentation and the ideas presented here show that in the early stages of the pandemic, they are actually awarding awards to artists. What's the bottom line? Minister on this prosecuting process of independence?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u97	A respectable president. As I came in, I don't think this lawsuit is relevant. If we look at what's been happening, and that's where we have numbers in front of us, i.e. that some have experienced an 87% loss of income, we have a moral obligation to control the groups that suffered severe damage to Covid. It's part of it. I want to tell you what. A senator said that we had a great deal of agreement with the Union of Icelandic artists, with UNON, with everyone involved in this matter. This is a specific procedure for artists who were particularly poorly treated by Covid. We ourselves see that writers are in a different position, but we decided to focus on the groups that could not produce their event. We saw that with sonar, Christmas prices fell out too. I have no doubt in my mind that this is a good thing, and I encourage the Senate and all the senators to agree and support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u98	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I want to ask the highest. A minister whether it expects wide support for this issue from the administrative sector. Despite the fact that individual senators have spoken here today, there have been some delay in the matter because of an inconsistencies in the administration team. It may be interesting to hear that too, since it did not appear until March 1. Yes, it might be informative to hear this matter specifically whether it was a matter of inconsistencies within the government or among the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u99	A respectable president. There was no inconsistencies in the government. I was just hearing about that opinion now. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. I think he's now more informed about the situation, why we're going into these operations. I'd like to reiterate that they're specific and that's how we're supposed to do it. Of course, ultrasound has been developing, and we've seen what it's like. I have no doubt that this bill is going to be approved here and I hope the General and Education Committee will also replace it and improve it. The very comments and discussions that take place here at the Senate Hall and especially in the committee work are just what is good during the church treatment. It's my experience, after being a minister of education and culture and before secretary of state, that it's very good to bring bills into the council and have these discussions and most of the committees do these things very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to start by asking about the 89th floor. The bill that is materially and basically consistent with 42rd. the current law, which contains the European Commission's data storage directive, which has been called since 2004 or 2005, I do not remember if it was. The problem is that this directive was condemned by the European Court in 2014. Is it not time to remove that decree - it is no longer legalistic in the countries that originally set it - rather than to preserve this overwhelming source? A multiorganized European Court concluded that it went far too far to restrict people's privacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u101	A respectable president. Hv. A candidate refers to an article that is physically unchanged and deals with these data on communication, or so - called communications information, which is unchanged under current law. This indication would need to be reviewed, and it is important that we do not work hard on privacy, but it is necessary that the structure harmonizes with the valid requirements we have been taking up in the EEA Convention, which happened after the bill was submitted last. So it has been updated to rhythm with the indications shown in the meantime. If it's like a whale. Of course, I will take this into account and expect the committee to consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u102	Mr. President. Because I expect the Minister to have someone on duty watching us, we might be able to do the job on the committee and now just ask for a memo on the effect of this court. For the audience, this is the judgment of C-293/12. It would be good to have a legal opinion as to whether this judgment does not refer to page 89. simply can't stand as it is on the bill. We discussed earlier in the winter so - called Milan, where communications laws were added to the possession of foreign people on socially important infrastructure. There were two sides of the same coin when we were discussing it here before Christmas. But now, for the sake of public security, as I had always seen, the prime minister has left behind his plans to bring a bill to the legalize of foreign investments in important public areas and linked our activities for national security, as I had always seen, and we spoke here in connection with the Migratory that we would have to hold our hand in hand with the introduction of the code so that we would not get along with all of us, as when Míla was suddenly sold out of the country. How does the minister feel that this prime minister should not see the day before this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u103	A respectable president. About the first thing you had. A senator named them, of course, we'll check it out in the Ministry. This could be related to a new EEA personality protection program on communications that will replace the current personal protection directive for communication. Initially it was with the code, but because of various problems with the code command, it was difficult to complete. Hence, it will likely come later and may answer this judgment, but we will consider it further. With regard to my foreign investments bill, I can't see that nothing stands in the way of completing this bill even if it is necessary. V.E.G. The prime minister has not abandoned that bill. He intends to do well, so it is a big matter that needs careful work, and I expect it to be done at the next assembly. But the bill we are discussing here is important for the advancement of communications in the country, the opportunities involved, and the national security article that I believe is very important that this council ends, as it also has a major conference discussion at the last assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u104	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is a very important issue, especially in the light of changing world images after the invasion of Ukraine. One of the requirements in the bill is the increased surveillance property of the post and communications agency regarding the so-called 5-G communication chains. I wanted to hear from the highest. Minister whether the costs for this monitoring have been evaluated and whether the Agency will be able to provide enough funding for this monitoring. I refer to the reviews of the Post and Communications Agency, which are called after an updated cost assessment and that at least To do just that, one of the job values of an expert.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u105	A respectable president. Yes, I covered a number of extra expenses due to a telecommunications agency and it's been evaluated as well as the Ministry and must be financed when the bill is passed, it's still here to 1st. at the council. In 78. .................... and we feel that it is unwise to rely on one telecommunications device, which is a risk. But with a different world picture, we need to keep in mind all the Agency's online security and to strengthen it so that we are in the best position to deal with the threats of online security and are also working out a special network plan according to the online security policy published last year. So it's a big project, and it's like a rough one. A senator comes in, it is important that a remote room has what it needs to do with it, as well as with the CERT-IS that unders it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u106	A respectable president. Thank you for your clear answers. Now it's quite clear that this is a bill that should lead to a financial loss for a cell phone company that already owns non-EU equipment, so I'd like to know if it's the highest level. A minister sees that there will be some action taken to meet the consumers on the market using enterprises that are outside the market and that will be used especially in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u107	A respectable president. Here we go. A senator talking about this 87th par. and the potential application of its information and there is no need for the application of this article or the need for it, as it is today, in an Icelandic telecommunications market; rather, it is important for a minister in the rhythm of national security to have this authority if there are any such circumstances. It requires significant delinquency and very clear logic to which parts of communication networks, possibly in whole or in a given proportion, are considered vulnerable in terms of public interest and national security if anything comes up that needs to be examined. So this is merely a warrant that will not change itself unless something comes up, but it is considered extremely important to have the discussion of 5G, not just communication, but trust and defence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u108	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the history of this important matter. I have three questions. Actually, I have a lot more questions than I think there are three questions I can ask. First of all, a criminal investigation. It says that a telecommunications agency should help the police with criminal investigation. Is it not necessary to increase the knowledge of this class and the police in particular, who, of course, have custody of criminal investigation in this regard? There's another question I'd like to ask about government finesse. It's shown in the bill that they can be 4% of the quality of the companies. It was a bill that day in the so - called Milu language of a change in telecommunications Act. There the law was taken out and set aside a day's fine. In view of the importance of the market, can we not be sure that this law of choice will be included? It is a law that comes from competitive rights, which is very important to be inside. Another factor about the distribution of the times mentioned by the minister: Won't this event be auctioned this year when it will be renewed? [[The president calls.]] And I call attention to the provisional plan, what its purpose is. [[The president calls.]] Does this indicate that there will be no auction?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. First of all, the police's knowledge of Internet crime and that a telecommunications agency has to help the police with criminal investigation. The police have been building up on so many other fields than just the P.A., where it has been often complained that it is not visible, because there are so many in law enforcement jobs in front of computers today that just specialise themselves on this. We have been strengthening this department, and of course we need to carry on with a new threat. With regard to the government's fines, they come here with a general warrant for the pressures of government guilty but under the current law, they are only committed to day-care. The bait layer must be available. It is very likely that the data monitoring agencies will increase the number of guilty sources provided by the code that the management board can then lay these tickets. The result of the comparative thought, due to the cognition. This 4% was referred to by a senator as being out of control in Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In terms of the frequency it is important and the remotest room is only waiting for this bill to go to a drop-rate auction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u110	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. I just stress that I was very special when the jugular or the pact on the total well - being was taken out, 4%. My point is, I'm not on a transport committee. This is a matter taken from competitive rights, based on the fact that if you're cheating on a telecommunication, you're actually doing some kind of competitive business, where the profits can be enormously successful. It's good to hear that there will be an auction this year on the export date and that this fine will be held, as well as a criminal investigation, that police are being promoted when it comes to Internet crime. That's in harmony with the time and the information revolution we're in. We will see even more crimes in this regard. I'd like to ask the minister if she could do a little more details on how the auction is going to be done, if there's been some lines about the auction of the gathering of the times that will be expected to be the highest candidate, and if there'll be some prelude to those who offer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u111	A respectable president. Only on the guilt issue first. It was originally at the former transport and local minister's office for consultation with a target of about 10%. So after inspection and comments, they changed to 4%, which is in harmony with other factors, and we have considered more closely how this is in the countries around us. In terms of the auction of frequency clearances at the Communications Office it's a completely legal process, she's taking this warrant by telecommunications law. I don't have it in front of me exactly how it is, but it totally depends on the legal process. They are eager to see that this new bill can run out quickly and safely during the council, where it was given a big conference discussion during the last council and is only slightly changed, just so that we can go to that distribution, and there are some sources falling down immediately this year as well as the next one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the history of bill for new communications laws, yeh. 666. When the bill was last proposed by the then minister, there was a review from the Neighbour Organization. I just want to talk about the consumer patron king because there was a comment at 72 Gr. The bill on the fact that there are about to be a double-max limit period in the EU telecommunication agreements allowed, but, in the opinion of the consumer community, it is in line with the evil purpose of the law, which is to increase consumer protection and choice and to promote active competition. Shortest service time keeps communications companies in their toes and gives consumers greater freedom. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if these provisions have been modified, in line with the consumers' comments, and at the highest level. A minister agrees that these provisions need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. That's right, that cheek came, and we examined it. The code's permissions to 24 months is available and we are now extending from 6 to 12 to this 72th gr. .............. A senator points to, and it is binding to a maximum. This is not a legal binding, it is a maximal binding and is considered to be the right step towards this 24-month target of the European Directive to increase all the consumer protection prescribed elsewhere in the bill, which is an enormously important step for consumers. We see a revolution in the telecommunication market, the competition, in the instruments, but also in the online security and the threat there is. So I think it's a clear line to take this step from 6 to 12, but we don't walk all the way up to 24.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u114	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. It's good to be considered for consumer protection. I still believe that the lower the maximum tie time, the better it is for the consumer, the fixed situation between an consumer and a company that makes a deal with him. consumers need this protection in their contracts with larger and more powerful partners. I would also like to draw attention to the rest of the report from the Nite Owl, which was concerned with the 69th gr. The bill on information. There, the Neytors Association proposed telecommunications to send written messages to consumers following a telephone contract. I just wanted to see if there had been a response to that comment, and how a minister's attitude would be involved in knowing the consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, for the timeout, I might want to add that competitive conditions are also changed, as is the case today in an Icelandic telecommunications market, from what used to be. We also hope that there will be a measure of increased space in form of only a longer maximum binding, which may be in favour of consumers for supply, service, goods, and prices. There are opportunities there, and we see far more competitive conditions on the Icelandic market today than it was just a few years ago. We live in a competitive environment of communication, and it is natural for communication companies to be free to tie up time for up to 12 months. Regarding the Netothal Association's comment, I'd have to have a closer look at it. I don't think there was a direct response, but there's something there. The Environment and Transport Committee will no doubt look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u116	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss in this context the law that's in the bill we're discussing here, but it's also in the current law. They have been criticized before, but they are still inside this bill to total communication laws. The bill we're discussing here today is 89 st. which is a trial of 42. valid communication legislation. It's mostly 3 mg. 89st. The bill that I think should cancel. In this article, so that I just review it, there are laws about what is called data storage. In 1st. 89st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Communicators on the use of user communications stored and communications companies are to be removed or anonymous when they are no longer needed to provide a means of communication. 3 mg. The law, the article I don't think is necessary and not entitled to, says the president's permission: ▪ Despite regulations 1 and 2 mg. telecommunications companies, in the interest of criminal research and public safety, will maintain minimum registration of data on user communications for six months. The minimum registration should ensure that a communications company can inform each of its clients that specific number, IP number or user's name, as well as informing on all contacts made by the user, dates of which, dates of which were connected, and the amount of data transferred to the user, as well as the number of contacts given to the appropriate customer over a specified period of time. Transmission companies should ensure that they possess the above data and are not allowed to use or deliver the relevant information other than the police or the prosecution in accordance with the 92ndre. This law is based on a discussion that took place around 2005 that resulted in a so-called data storage directive, an Directive of 2006/24/EC. In 2014 this directive was dismissed or invalidated by the European Court in which it was opposed to the basic rights of the citizens. Then you might say: " Who would have thought that spying on everybody in order to inform a possible or possibly a future crime could go against people's rights? ' In any case, most European countries have then removed this law. It may be natural for people to have such laws in their own hands, and especially so, that these information could be used to inform us about crime and other matters. But I'm going to speak against this law and mention some of the reasons why data cover a head like this, in English ◯data Reenition, is the methodology we're supposed to reject today. There are a few reasons. First of all, data covers a danger to personal protection. There, a telecommunication company is gathering substantial and very accurate data on the behavior and behavior of network users and has to be stored for a relatively long time. These data are similar to medical records, but safety standards for storage have not been met. Second, data storage greatly violates average rule. This is a rough intervention, it is a major procedure, has a significant effect on people's rights without actually getting convincing or sufficient evidence that this is necessary. Also, the severity of the fractions exposed by stored communication data has not been shown to be consistent with the effects of personal protection. Third, a national security threat to data. Data sources monitor all communications, including police communications, landkeeping, councilmen, members of Parliaments, presidents of state services, representatives of public security and others who have national security arrangements. Possible attackers, criminal organizations, and others, could access the data via computer or data sources and use them against national security in a number of ways. Fourth, data storage prevents anonymousness and the protection of sources. The media often communicates anonymously with sources. Today, awareness of the importance of the media guarantees the secrecy of its sources. However, this anonymous communication is often carried out through the telecommunications system of various types, and data sources are at risk that sources who have access to these surveillance data might reveal the source. This makes the law of protection to authorities in an upset state, to say no more. Fifth, data storage has an effect on expression and expression freedom. It may be such a cooling effect, which in many areas is a major threat to freedom of expression today and to information freedom and security, where members who might fear persecution for their own ideas and expression might be much less inclined to express themselves through communication systems and on world networks when the source of the messengers can be traced. Now, the media is moving ever faster to the world's web. Then it'll be a serious problem. That's where data warrants a fine. It gives the impression that before any offense has been actually exposed, anyone could possibly be guilty of crime. Of course, this does not harmonize with our basic thinking that we are usually innocent until we prove ourselves guilty or, in general, something indicates that we are guilty. In particular, data storage is technically useless and is technically useless because for those who intend to hide their tracks, it is very easy to avoid registration, e.g. by using so - called, Icelandic server servers, in English called Δproxy servers, a encrypted private net, or a so - called onions net, Šon reducing-156 by permission of the president. Although relatively few citizens are able in all of these ways, these tools are available that may be readily available to terrorists or gangs, pedophiles, or others who intend to use communication systems for criminal purposes, have easy access, and will not be long to learn. The statistics show that data storage is virtually useless in criminal research, which is what people at first can think of as being trying to secure this law. In most of the cases where data has been of some help to inform matters, other data have been sufficient to inform the case, accounting data. There is no need to store all this really sensitive person information on the whole of activity and on all people's clicks and names on the Internet. There has also been an increase in the amount of data that has not solved matters. Once this method has been developed, there are no more subjects that have been informed. In the end, data saves a great deal of money. It is costly, the benefits are low, and it violates unnecessary human rights. It's an expense carried by the telecommunication industry, but it normally lands on consumers. It's a little surprised to see these principles in the bill, since this is in a hurry to the discussion and perhaps the developments in the world today. We become ever more aware of the importance of protecting people's personal life. Then I'll allow myself to suggest and encourage the highest. A minister to drop out of this article. So I've come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is important that the bill be discussed at the council, as it was during its last session. I just want to reiterate what was stated in my opponent earlier that a new kind of EEA character protection in communication is coming. During its predictable induction, this law will be considered. In view of the possible extension of the preservation period, it is appropriate to wait on that work in view of the imminent approval of this Regulation. It was to be provided with the code, but because of the many questions that were raised, it calls for personal protection in communication. A panel report by the Ministry of Presidency on the data storage network could be considered as a shortcut which would impair the ability to investigate. It is important to note that the data can only be delivered by the police and the prosecution and that a court order is required to obtain these data, that is very clear. The preservation also depends on very rich demands. They must not be used or given to anyone other than the police and the prosecution. Without it, the possibility of a police officer, if not present, will be impaired, including the use of Internet attacks against important social infrastructures, which are best referred to in this context. The data are not personalized unless specific measures are made and strict requirements for communications companies who provide these data, including background check, etc. It's clear, this thing that I had established with the court order if others need access to these data. I just wanted to come here to inform us about this arrangement or the personal protection directive and then these aspects of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u118	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. When a policy is en route, there are no questions and there are questions about the right decision, such as this, and direct judgments against the rights of the city, I wonder twice. First, when there is a question about whether there is a war against the civil rights or not, is it not true to keep it, wait until another becomes evident rather than to go on the other side of stress? Is it not more consistent with our basic values and basic laws, giving the city's human rights and their freedom to enjoy the doubt? That may be my question to the highest. Minister. Second: Foreign statistics show very clearly - since the highest level. A minister here notes that important evidence is being discussed in criminal matters - that these data, as mentioned in my speech, are not really useful. They do not need and lead them to rather enlightened matters, and they do not necessarily involve matters that are as important as protecting people's personal life. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, since I haven't found it, whether there are any information, any evidence or statistics on the use of these data in Iceland, and the benefits of those who justify our keeping such regulations in our laws before it has been clearly determined how to behave.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, we will not stand here with a bill that contains a law against the human rights of the city. This is not the information we have on this article. If this is true in the case of the council, then I'm not gonna take it seriously unless the committee responds. This will be discussed in a report, about 3 mg. 89. Article 3 of which it is required to preserve a set minimum registry of data, which remains unchanged from the current law, that this originally came to the request of a state police officer with a change of law No. 78/2005, but not in the induction of a quoted directive from March 15, 2006, which was invalid by the European Court by the issue mentioned here. A senator as well as of good reason. A senator in answer to me earlier. We do not know that such statistics exist, but the government needs to answer that question. It's not according to the information I have that these data are not useful in criminal investigation or when there are Internet crimes against national institutions. This is part of its origin, but not directly in this directive. In contrast, it is important to consider the judgment given here. This is made clear in an article on 3 mg. 89st. I'm sure there's something that's wrong. The Environment and Transport Committee will then consider, and I reiterate the words I said here at the outset.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u120	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is indeed a national law at the same time as this discussion in Europe, which led to the introduction of this directive. I meant, not that this law came about because of the directive, but because of the views that prevailed back then and that have been challenged. I can't see that the provision is covered, but it refers to a paper with a previous law that I don't have in front of me. For this law to be asked, or that this law is proposed by the state police officer, it is certainly not surprising. It's not really weird. Although this is questionable, in itself it is not unusual for the police authorities to ask for further authority. We have, for example, seen in Iceland as elsewhere that they seldom hesitate to ask for more authority, even though they may be allowed to share their benefits of authority and rights. Especially will it be with us, who are democratic elected representatives here at the Generals to ensure that such sources are not granted to the police unless they are absolutely certain that they do not violate the rights of the citizens. Such evidence violates the rights of the city if there is no right and no fair between its goals and the rights that are impaired. There are many basic rights behind it, and I hope that this will be examined carefully during conquistancy. I trust that once these judgments are examined, there will be proposals to remove them from the law. I don't think this law is entitled to what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's the data cache and 88rd. and 89th pars. I've only been working with OSH law abroad, GDPR. I can't see this any different than that -- this case is actually a communication issue and is not exactly the same, I'm saying - this data can be stored anywhere in the European Economic Area. There's nothing against it, and at least there's a personal protection law like that. In fact, this is incorrectly translated in Icelandic, it is said of the sharing of information, but it is the distribution of information, as it were, a mass of genetic data, but not the dissatisfaction. This can be anywhere in the European economy. I can only see that both of these regulations need to be subject to the European rules. I believe the European Court has well protected personal protection in terms of telecommunications, personal data, and evidence there on the ◯Safe Harbor, and the ◯Privacy Shield- deal with the United States. But does the senator believe that the Icelanders can set specifics in this regard that might conflict with Europe's rights and how? I can't see it at least. If I recall correctly, there is a special order on the personal information of the police, but they are not entirely subject to this. But at least 89. deals with criminal investigation and that data is stored for six months. I don't quite see the European Court of Human Rights since we're going to try to have stricter legislation than is in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson economist for the counter-sponsion. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, this law is not consistent with the development of other countries. I understand the senator's question so whether we can have something contrary to all of it. I can only see that we are doing so here, giving legislation that conflicts with what is going on. I would like to reiterate the extent to which a personal intervention in people's private life is involved. That's a lot of information. This is an overwhelming detail in the relations of people authorized to record and must be kept. There are, for example. that statistics from Denmark show that each individual is registered on account of some form of communication, on average 225 times a day or every six minutes. This is quite a bit much and accurate information about our actions. More and less of all our communications and more and less everything we do is going through telecommunications these days. This is an enormously extensive and precise registration of everything we do, and it has not been demonstrated that the severity of the fractures that can be investigated through this information or that has been successfully informed is in any way consistent with the effects of these data sources. And this is certainly something that attracts human rights, first of all. A senator has a problem with seeing the human rights officer there. To me, it's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u123	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. Yeah. A senator hasn't misunderstood me. What I had a hard time seeing is whether there were human rights broken out here by the European rules. Hv. A senator uses the term data storage. I immediately went to see if the term is in the bill, but I didn't see it. I know these are the laws of communication, but in the protection laws and the information revolution - immediately. A senator and a chief. A minister's on his phone, and on the Internet, he's not usually the client. He is very often protected from the programs he is using. Windows 10 was released free to individuals and this was because the individual was product. The same thing when you go to Facebook, the client at Facebook is the manager, not the individuals, where they get the money, where they get the income flows. The product is the individual and all European legislation, GDPR, the Personal Protection Act, aimed at protecting human rights, privacy. I see that there's a set of data storage regulations here, which I take into account is a very good concept and it would be very good to keep in the law, but what I'm struggling to see is whether 89. g., on telecommunication data, breaks the individual's human rights based on the personal protection law, which is very powerful. It's an international standard in the world. Usually when you use specific programs in Iceland, Google Analytics, Windows, the data are usually stored in the United States, very often, not in Ireland, in the warehouses or in the clouds. The European Court has said that Americans are violating Europe's human rights because of the Snowden case, because of the NSA, and because they were going through this personal information. But Europe has stood firm in this respect and again made a deal with the United States in what is called the Privacy Shield. But when I see European legislation in this area, I assume it's seen by the individual's protection, the privacy of privacy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's how I look at it. And I believe human rights are protected. It would be very interesting to see - I may not have got everything. A senator said - where are individuals in those regulations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his return. I just don't know exactly how to go about explaining how this law is truly a gross intervention in human rights. However, it is interesting to do so. A senator named the European Union's personal protection Act, a revolution in the world's personal protection, and has proved himself to be an immense force for personal protection, even in the United States. In a sense, the stroke was won in many respects, but it was indeed to be fought by communications companies in the United States. What I wanted to point out is that this sentence that fell here in 2014, which made up the same amount of data and believed it to be contrary to the human rights of the citizens, all happening before this personal protection law has gone into effect and became what it is today. If this was thought to violate the city's personal protection at that time, there is no doubt in my mind that it was thought to do so to this day. But whether it will test this law or it needs to be tested specifically - we can certainly recommend all sorts of laws and what we think of in our own minds on this council, and it becomes evident in court and in whether it meets the strict requirements we make for our law to be in accordance with the constitution and rights of the law. I think it is clear that this law is not here to be and that we should just accept it immediately.
