ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u1	The president wants to announce that he intends to interrupt a meeting for 30 minutes after an unprepared question period for a meeting of the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Senate recommends. Do they want a vote for that President's proposal? - It's not, and then it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u3	To answer, Minister of Economics and Economics, Ministers of wood, Environment, Energy and Climate, Minister of Foreign Affairs, university, industrial and innovation, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u4	President. TV reported last night that the Parliament's employment committee had received talks from the Ministry of finance that make considerable comments on the CDC, the government's bill on reimbursement for film production. According to the Ministry Department's talk, this matter is a treasure -- it is, in fact, funded neither during the current year nor in a four - year financial program. The Ministry makes comments about having only three days to review the bill, and as if a working group who was to win this bill didn't get to win it, but had only been finished in the Ministry of Culture and Business. At the same time, it is claimed that this case has been settled from the government. That's why I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether they have not made comments to that in their time in the government, and whether this might be the case in addition to the events that have been identified by the Central Party Parliament, such as by the CDC, which is naturally unfashionable by the overall impact. But it's quite unusual that this is the case so late, that the Ministry thinks they have to intervene for a bill of directors, because there was no understanding that this was a government bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u5	A respectable president. Some may have been missing, but in recent years we have been changing the process to the cost of a bills assessment. Now it is that it is the Ministry of Education that itself is responsible for the promotion of costs. However, the rule is that the Ministry of Economics usually has two weeks to review medical practice. Although the two weeks have not been provided in this case, financial recommendations were still made that the payer, which in this case is saved in this department, did not allow for expenses that would be tested if the bill was approved. This was not taken into account in a paper with the bill as it went through the government. In fact, it was there that I called attention to it. Then the case goes to the council and asks a member of the Ministry about how this is done. It is natural for humans to react. In fact, this discussion is all about this: Is it on the budget team, saved to the Ministry of Culture and Business, sufficient time to satisfy the need that the bill will become approved as a law? That's the only question that matters here, and the Ministry of finance is to draw attention to it, without any material comments on the subject, that emissions to reimburse filmmakers will be stopped without financial resources on the budget. This may seem unnatural to humans, but it may occur that there are differences in view of whether the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Economics is right. In fact, I have no doubt that the budget is inadequate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u6	Mr. President. It's at the top. Minister to hear that this bill is clearly defective, but the Ministry also makes very significant comments on how it was worked. But I'm going to use the second question to ask the highest question. Minister to everything else. There is no need to follow up here the discussion that has recently taken place on the highest rates of real estate. There's no doubt a minister knows. Tells you the highest. In view of the evolution of this currency, a financial minister was designed to reevaluate in terms of the costs and not to be an additional resource that is now increasingly dependent on almost random things?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u7	A respectable president. This particular currency is being discussed because the country's real estate ratings are increasing very much, and then it becomes so crystal clear, so clear that we're talking about a tax base where the real estate owner has to take on all the increases in real estate evaluations that have nothing to do with making the person more money to cover the tax. Of course, it's the best taxes we have to take into account, is one proportion of our income. The other is, in fact, some kind of possession when the percentage has become too high. And, yes, I think it's a faulty system, and it's best described by some companies that, in some companies, there may be no income growth, but the tax pay is to rise by 20% if you're not going to move the percentages. This is unfair and will certainly go very close to many companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u8	Mr. President. It is not without reason that discussions about foreign affairs are far more than we have become used to. The safety of our continent is threatened by the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, and we hear almost daily reports of European countries who want to strengthen themselves with closer cooperation. Yesterday we discussed Swía's application and found the Atlantic Alliance, and large reports were received from Denmark, where a vast majority of the Danish people chose by dropping off warnings and entering the European Union's defensive activities. Danes have no doubt about the benefits of EU Member States for their safety and sovereignty. Europe's debate and perhaps especially North countries have developed in the direction that Europe itself has to be prepared for a threat. We must stand together as continents to defend our world. A warning work with the United States as important as it is is is is not effective on its own. In Norway the conversation about involvement in the European Union is beginning again. Of course, the North would change Iceland's situation in the European Economic Area. Because cooperation would be almost automatic and we would obviously be, in view of that world, one northern country outside the European Union. So I ask the highest. Minister on situation. How is it that we are being prepared for possible changes? Is there a variety of field-of-view analyses? What does it mean for Iceland and Norway in this context to stand outside the European Union now that Sweden and Finns are on their way into NATO and exist in the European Union? What does that mean, e.g. When it comes to the Norwegian defense community? And what would it mean for Iceland to be alone outside the European Union if Norway went in? How will we react to different developments? Is there a review of interest assessments in Iceland's security concerns based on changes in Europe and changes not only possible but indeed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, and certainly it will change the cooperation of nations as Finns and Sweden join the Atlantic Alliance, hopefully as soon as possible. We feel that some of the debate about the European Union has changed. Without the fact that I'm going to be specifically measuring out or giving advice to those who speak for involvement in the European Union, I think it would be more beneficial to stick to other factors than to be important in security and prevention activities, in the context of being partners in the European Union. I'm just saying, may the European Union be most successful in its review of defense and security. The fact is, the European Union is designed to form less than 20% of the funding of the European Union in terms of defence-related projects, but countries outside the European Union have 80%. We are now monitoring the EU plans and plans to strengthen ourselves in this area. However, this is not the first time that it is tried. Maybe it'll make some changes now. We're founded on the world's longest security and defence team, and that's where we're doing well. We then have a defense agreement with the world's most powerful government, the United States. Out of the security and defense interest, therefore. A senator asks about a review of this, so we are in good hands, and in effect, we are looking for ways to participate further. Our interests are well protected within the cooperation we now have in and out of Europe we have the EEA Convention, where our interests are better protected than our participation in the European Union and all that follows. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u10	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's reply and advice, unfortunately, must say that the minutes I have here are not sufficient to provide the highest. Minister and government advice on how to change their course and approach to the European Union. But we'll take that conversation later. It is important that we stop focusing on business in all European discussions, on markets. The European Union was formed to ensure peace in the continent. It is a project that calls for cooperation in many areas, not only in business but also in democracy, human rights, evolution work, and, especially, defenses against outside threats. One of the things Danir will now make up for by participating in the European Union's defense activities is online security. We know that the war of the future will be fought with other factors than we previously knew. We have already gone there, and we also know that one of our early burning projects is to secure our defenses on Internet security. This is an assignment that we will not be able to handle alone, and as the situation today, we will be quite vulnerable if we suffer from such attacks. So I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he believe that increased cooperation with the European Union could improve our defenses there, although it does not feel very strongly about the European Union as a secondary defense alliance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u11	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator for Internet security is a growing project for all countries, and that is why we are in great cooperation both in Tallinn and in Helsinki, which is of great importance to us and that we get far more out of such cooperation than we do in our own. You're right next door. A senator that we cannot as an island build up all the knowledge we need, and we are to do so in cooperation with other nations. Thus, the European Union has nothing to do with it. We are fully capable of promoting such cooperation and participating in it, either at co-ordinated or otherwise, without European Member States. For Dana's decision, we don't really have anything like it here, so we don't need a national law on such changes because it's not a problem here. However, Dana's decision does not change any normic defense or cooperation within NATO, so to speak. [[The president calls.]] So, yes, it's a project for us to improve in the protection, but it can certainly be done without European Member States.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u12	Mr. President. The exchange of energy between alpha and Omega has been advising environmental, energy, and climate minister since he took office at the end of the year. The reduction in transport emissions is one of the more important solutions in the climate. More than anything else, it is important to secure homes and companies of electricity security. This will not be done within the current legal framework and it is clear that the official organisation is responsible for the delivery of electricity in this country. President. Nothing in the present legal environment of electrical efficiency allows governments to regulate electricity production in the country, using it directly for energy exchange. Thus, governments have nothing in their hands, no necessary tools to enforce their greenhouse gas reduction programmes, and thus meet our goals in climate change. Six scenarios have been set up in a status report made by the minister to set up the state of climate and Iceland's climate targets. These staged images account for a 9% increase in electricity production to double it, or a 124% increase, to the year 2040. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity here, Mr. President, to ask the highest question. The climate minister, whether or not he has evaluated these scenarios as shown in the status report and if any of them will be the basis for electricity production here in the future. Second, I'd like to ask the Minister what is the introduction of the third energy package in Icelandic legislation. How will the government fulfill its obligation to ensure the electrical security of homes and businesses in this country other than major users? It is a very important project, as proved by recent examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As has been observed many times, but probably repeated, it was one of my first jobs to set up an electrical security team that is going over exactly these factors. A senator referred to him. It may be easy to talk, but this is only a matter of personal choice and careful review. We know that when we changed the law for over - well, it's been quite a while since, well, a decade ago, it was urgent to look especially at these factors. That's what I started right away. However, I stress in the effort to make the time needed to reach a conclusion that we can be happy with, for it is of course the goal of providing special security for homes when these matters are due. And since the evaluation of these scenarios, it lies quite ahead of time that there is a great demand for green energy, especially for energy exchange, and it is important that the supply is available. I don't know about any person who is counting on us to tell us what things will be like at this time we're talking and you see every day, I can pretty much say every week, at least every week, using technology, and new exports that have changed in varying degrees. The point is, we're going into the energy exchange and we've worked in an orderly way, and we'll continue to do so, and it's very important that when we take out gasoline and diesel, we have green energy instead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u14	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers as far as they could. Yes, I'm aware of the electrical security group, and I may have thought it was time to get his suggestions for considering here at the High Council or at least reveal them so that they could be discussed. Time certainly does not work with us in this important and, as it were, the highest. A minister points out the demand is high. Of course, it's almost infinite. That's why it's so important that we decide within the framework, e.g. energy policy by ensuring electrical security, how we are going to protect the energy produced on the land. It is probably the most valuable thing we are currently producing, and we must have the tools and tools within the laws, regulations, and plans that make it possible for us to direct it to the right places, which are said in the energy exchange. I'm gonna take this opportunity and go to the top. A minister by whether he shares my concerns because one of the pieces in this very important image that is now missing is the third leg of a series. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Don't we have to take care of her in spring?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u15	President. Thank you. A senator again for the inquiry. First of all, I can assure you that when the results of the electrical protection threat come, it won't be a secret. Of course, it comes to the council in some way. The more discussions we discuss these matters, the better. I'm encouraging it. A member of Parliament and all other members of the Parliament will use every opportunity to have a special discussion with me or to discuss these important matters with me. I welcome inquiries. Hv. A senator asks if it is important to complete the box. Yeah, it's also important to finish the basic process of enlargement. It is also important to complete the energy saving bill, what has been called the heat pump bill. This is very important if we are to reach the target we have made. One thing is certain, and it's absolutely certain, that if we take out gasoline and diesel, and we're going to do it, we need green energy instead. The priority lies for us. It's the energy exchange. Given that we have green energy, there is no basis for that goal to be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u16	Mr. President. It may be evident that new sources of income are under the Iceland State Fund so that they will be able to support the growing number of expensive projects that we see and, especially, cut off from the bondage of misery and poverty the worst in the community. I want you to introduce a realistic idea to a new level of income. It is suggested that the minister has the possibility of a larceny park developing near the proposed lower part of Achieving with the objective that the report may have large energy prices without distribution costs. In view of the low cost of electrical electricity, all graffiti would be available to transport their activity there. My question to the highest. A minister is as follows: Would a minister support such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There may be a bit of a rush to give an accurate answer to an idea that I have not heard tore up before. On the other hand, the situation is quite immediate. A senator is here to refer to and is one of the many ideas that are already in use for green energy. I think we're in that position. I've only been involved in politics, not only as an elected agent, but also as an independent team, and I think that they are a major turning point now because until now and long before I've been involved in politics, we've been moving to a lot of foreign investments. Now there are a lot of people who look to us because before us there were people who walked forward and began producing green energy when others weren't doing it, and we still have a chance for it. How exciting it is to be able to make a difference in the years! The person standing here does not control the energy industry, but he has the nature of a matter to say, as we all do in this room. I think the ideas are what they are. But I also draw attention to the fact that there are many other ideas going on that all of them, which are coming to the same, which are developing here in green activity, including food production. It makes one look optimistic, but we need to keep our arms tight to the end so that some of these opportunities will be realized, for they never all do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u18	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for his answers. It is relatively quick and simple to examine this matter, and it is, of course, stronger if it can come from a government and secretary's study. For a nation living in this precious green energy and what opportunities do we have in growing production and exporting goods associated with climatic goods, I feel that this is an idea I challenge a minister to make an assessment. Together, we must be able to obtain increased income by such efforts and by such activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'd like to state that I like the way I do things. A senator's view of the future is positive. I just think it's good to be brought to the attention of such developments. These are truly opportunities that we should look especially at. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of ideas in the process of making food, biotechnology, and manufacturing that will be used in the fight against the climate, to name some examples, and we should seriously examine them, including what is going to happen. A senator referred to him. Hv. A senator is here calling attention to very exciting options for an Icelandic country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u20	President. In Belarus, for example, President Lúkasjenkó Koko has been in charge for over 26 years in spite of election fraud. The campaign fraud led people to protest in many places. The government's response was to arrest people in mass language, but there is evidence that as many as 35,000 people have been arrested and suffered further violence by the police. Lúkasjenkó has persecuted the media and is often called the last dictator in Europe. Lúkasjenkó yenko, an ally of President Pútín of Russia, says all that needs to be said under the present circumstances. Many countries have imposed business pressure on Belarús or on influential members of the country because of government action. In 2005, Alexander Mosjenskí was appointed the district manager of Iceland in Belarus. In 2010, he said to one of the three main sources of Lúkasjenkór's proposals and in 2011 and 2012, the European Union considered putting him on a list of sources of economic pressure but escaped that time, possibly because of Hungary's interference, but one of the major associates of Mosjenskí is the elected representative of Hungary. More recently, Mosjenskí was tried to put on a ban list, but this time we hear reports that Iceland interfered with repeated inquiries about why, but no independent observation as to whether there was evidence for such action. Then when senators try to ask, they simply point out that Mosjenskí did not eventually end up with any list of rules, as if there was some answer to questions about interference, e.g. Iceland, which could lead to Mosjenskí's failure to be on the listed list. Recently, I received an answer from the highest. Ministers where I asked when and how much communication was due to plans to put Mosjenskí on no list and instead of giving a clear and clear answer because it's not a question of confidentiality, it's just a question of number and when, you know, the answers were just that they were referred to in confidentiality. The questions were more than just the answers. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to ask a minister: Is the matter so serious to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u21	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry on this matter. In short, he reviewed the spirit and the time of Lúkasjenkór's reign, and she is not particularly beautiful. There have been various violations of human rights. We have taken a very firm stand with the people who are there expressing themselves and saying things as they are, and we have taken full part in business and penalties against Belarus and will continue to do so. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator noted, that the interference and indirect involvement of Belarus in the actions of Pútín is very serious and has induced further reactions. Here is a special question for my answer to ask why. A senator and if it's acceptable to me. The simple answer to that question is: Yes, I find it acceptable because otherwise I would never have sent it away. I wouldn't have sent an unfortunate answer. However, this is a matter that has been given a considerable deal of discussions, both on committees and on the councils, and there are certainly evidence that remains confidential and that remains, that of various peoples, is the nature of the situation, and it must be up to the limit of what seems to be normal. I reiterate that I will not protect anyone who owns a criminal list and has not used me in a single word for any such.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u22	President. I realize that international communication is confidential, but it has to do with the content. It cannot be about how many times or how much communication is being made, when it took place, to figure out how it works in terms of Iceland's being with Aleksander Mosjenskí as a prime attorney. That's what it's all about. I asked myself, " Have there ever been any comments on Mosjenskí's political connection with Lúkasjenkór and the Icelandic government just answered: No, we haven't got anything, just seen in the media? ' Still, there is no study of this about our district attorney, and this situation certainly provides a measure of protection for individuals in that country because of the fact that such international relations depend on a particular religion. Hence, it is far more important for us to make sure that our deputy is not exploiting such a position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is there any intention of making an independent opinion as to whether there is any basis for what the European Union is trying to do vegna of Mosjenski? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u23	Madam President. I don't know that the European Union is trying to do anything special in setting up a U.S. district attorney in Belarus on a list of those who are due to be forced or punished. As to this, it has been informed that they were primarily informal telephone contacts and, in some cases, personal e - mail communications or meetings. It has also been informed that this communication was over a hundred times. It has been observed before, and I reiterate it here, that the interaction went on in a matter of searching and gathering information, which only went difficult, did not bring much information back, about whether our counsellor would be on such a list and then why. In the end, he wasn't on that list. We did not create the list, did not get access to how it was found. [[The president calls.]] As I've mentioned before, it would have been an effect if he had ended up on the list and we had to make arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u24	A respectable president. I'm here to present a verbal report on the transport of Lake Bay Park from Gardavour to Hafnar in the Hornfjord. In 2007, a waterland park began to operate. The park covers Lake Bay and large areas of the area near it, including the parks that existed in Skaft falls and glaciers. The nature of the nature and cultural history of Lake Earth is globally unique and is shaped by natural activity in the Central Atlantic spine and climate on the limits of warm and cold currents in the oceans and the air. Iceland was born as a fire metaboliser, and on it was a site of Lakeline, the largest of Europe's glaciers. The park is the largest in Western Europe and saves less than 15,000 miles2 or about 15% of the country. It covers seven rural communities with a total of 12,800 inhabitants, and visitors in 2019 were about 2 million. The park's governance is scattered. National park is divided into four operating areas, each of which has six regional bodies. Regional Council is organized by three members of the local community and three representatives of a community organization. The heads of each regional council are in the administration of the National Park, as well as the heads of director and vice president appointed by a minister and one representative of a nature protection organization. Each time, an outdoor and travel agency appoints an audience member of the National Park. The head of the National Park is responsible for the daily management of the government, including the personnel case, implementing a government decision and also responsible for the budgetary and operation, in accordance with the duties of the head of the state of the Agency. National park's main operating centres are defined in the national park laws. They're in an Avenger, a Moy, Scorcher's, Hornfjordur, Skull Fall, and a church club. In addition, the National Park has work posts in Garða, Fellatown, and Akureyri. However, the formal residence of the Agency has since been set up in the national park in the capital area, first in Reykjavík and later in Garden Town, where the manager has a work station. Overall, 37 staff members of the Agency operate at 32 of them at national work centres. During summertime, there are about 80 employees who care for the land guard, service, and education to the guests of the park, all of which are employed in the country. In 2021, about 50 years of work was done in a lakeland park, with 90% of them in the region. It should be clear to all that Lake earth is largely a national institution. Therefore, it has always been incomprehensible to me why his home is not within the park or in the immediate surroundings. I have never really understood why the park's home has been in the southwest corner since its establishment, considering that it is not the national park. The park's name is Lake Bay National Park by Lake Bay, and it's bound to be, more honored President, that Lake Bay is not in the capital area. The official policy of the government is to increase the number of public jobs in the country. Therefore, in my opinion, there is a suitable opportunity to move home and thus the management of the park's management centre to one of its main work stations, i.e. to Hafnar, Hornfjordur. This source is found in 3 mg. 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It says, by permission of the president: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. When preparing this decision, I consulted with the government of the Earth's nation, and they welcomed my decision, as shown in its book making from a meeting on April 25 of the past. Based on the location and work station of the Commission moving to Refect from September 1 onward. A respectable president. What a joy it was to have the conversation and to agree with the administration of a Waterland National Park because it gave you genuine support to this idea and also a deep understanding of what has often been a problem and becomes a problem, that when such a decision is made, one must be chosen! Of course, there are many who can be considered. All I could feel was the full support of Lakejörg's administration in the setting of the manager's residence in the country and that everyone was aware that they would have to choose one site. To clarify this, a respectable president, in this discussion, it is not just a matter of being involved in this move, but I have introduced it and initiated the work of reevaluating the establishments of the Environment Ministry, with first aim of improving efficiency and economy, secondly, to look out specifically for how we can work better together with research and university institutions. Then I'm referring to my view that since we're one nation in one country, not particularly many, it's extremely important that we work on as important matters as we hear under the Department of Energy and Climate... that we use all the knowledge we have, even though it's not within the institutions of the Ministry. Hence, especially research and university look-ins are emphasised. Third, and especially, how we can strengthen our work in the country is being looked at. Why that, Mr. Honorable President? Because in our large country most of the projects involved in the environment, energy and climate of the country. It is my sincere belief that we should never underestimate local knowledge. The above is also to consider 85% of Iceland's population within the White River, or the White River, so to speak, and it's the advantage of all of us that we will strengthen the rest of the country as well. A respectable president. It is my pleasure to present this verbal report. I hope there's a good discussion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this verbal report and this interesting and excellent idea. He makes a considerable contribution to national talk, and this in itself is good, but also essential goals. Let's keep in mind in the beginning that while Iceland is often spoken of as a rural country, it just depends on how things are viewed. The fact that every nation in the country lives in a very limited area that we call the capital area puts us in the same category as maybe four, five other countries in the world; Panama, Kuwait, Djibouti, Africa, and Mongolia; and that is not practical. It's also not wise. There's really no justice in it because once we have such a situation, it can easily get into that gravity will just become too strong and absorb, so I don't talk about how special it is on a land that is burning. It can only involve a major system hazard. Therefore, it is wise to think about this in a larger context, and it is a good policy to transfer institutions, especially those where institutions are assigned and assigned and served and that decisions are next made to the environment in which the decisions are made. Of course, it does not matter how it is done, as it were. Similarly, it is not a good way to do so by hand, by snatching people up with shame, and by moving them to a new place immediately. They will lose the expected job that may be a life - style. We have seen far too many decisions, sometimes based on even the special interests of an individual minister or their residence, idealism, and so forth. We need to make this a natural factor in our policy so that it becomes as normal and painful as possible. New technology helps us to do much of this and enables us to do some work in telecommunications, whether we are talking about people who live near the administrative center in the capital area and who have to be assigned to the country or to people in other parts of the country, in scattered areas, but who work for an institution located in Reykjavík. You see, technology works both ways. But much should be considered, especially, that building is the most beneficial factor in the overall interest of the nation. If we allow ourselves to cross into regional policy, I think Iceland and I need somehow to take some steps and not put a quarter of our jobs here and a third there and two and a half there, all after home. We need to put down some weight points, e.g. The capital area, which is obvious. Our capital is very important. Then I can imagine that the next point of weight that would be in sight was Akureyri and the island area and then perhaps another in the east and south in time so that it is not just an option to build the whole country but that we will make sure it's all built and that we can also prevent a number of risk factors. This new technology, which I mentioned earlier, may reduce the automatic trend that all management jobs and institutions eventually find themselves in Reykjavík and look there. You don't even have to look to public institutions. As we live in the country, we see that many of the large and heavy enterprises in which there are more and less control since the capital and then the low - paying job remains the unchanged occupation. If people call for the growth of the settlements and their strengths, we, outside the capital area, must also be able to offer a wide range of jobs so that we do not see our children in college or abroad and no chance for them, even if they wanted to, to return. Of course, I would have liked to talk much more about the very nature of Lake Earth and a highland park that is a very important phenomenon. This is not to say that it is designed to limit people's movements around the country. On the contrary, it is designed to attract people and give them the opportunity to enjoy all the good things the country has to offer. But because of that minister's focus on his role in moving a work station to the country, I'm just celebrating. But I urge him and other ministers and governments to do all this humbly to the people who do the work in such a way that it is as painful for those who have to look to land as well as for those who accept such facilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u26	A respectable president. We're here to address the secretary's report on the transport of Lake Bayside Park. The site has so far been in Garða, but it is now scheduled to move to Cape of the Hornfjord. That's where it belongs. Of course, it belongs near the glacier, the territory involved. I want to agree with them. A senator who spoke before me that there are people behind this moving that we must take into account, and hopefully this will be done in harmony with anyone who wishes to do so. I rejoice in these plans, since the Cape of Hornfjordur is chosen instead of the site of Lakejörjörður Park. Besides, as we all know who have come there, a magnificent view is there. From the Horni, it is possible to observe the glacier and see many majestic reptiles, such as Hoffell's seventh, Helinberg's cold, Fleajöl cold, and Swamp of Pigs. It's a great area. In addition, popular tourist attractions within the park are not long under way, in fact, Jack's and Skaftuns. I remember a time when I could hardly go east much more than across the river of Mark. Yes, a man reached the Forests and the Churchlands, and in the Thorsmarks. But you never went east. This area opened when you went round. You remember the experience of taking the ring road the first time. Then you were seeing part of Iceland that you didn't even know existed. The same thing happened when a man took the other road, the explosion route, came from the north. I used to go to Fish Lakes and to the region of a magnificent pearl There is something else that we need to pay attention to as well. It's the changes that are taking place on the glaciers. As these changes take place, the number of tourists is increasing, and we know that within this park is a vastly dangerous area to be cared for. Similarly, I have observed that in the case of Thomson, conditions are exemplary and the way it has been done to make everything accessible so that, as a minimum, there are risks both for international and international tourists. We know that there are many of the world's world's most beautiful spheres and that we have a responsibility to preserve them. Sadly, the climate has already had a major impact on the population. There is no exception to the quality of water. It is of utmost importance that parallel projects should be carried out on the impacts of warming on the park. We've got to keep an eye on this. We must be careful to keep a close eye on what is going on. We know that the top of Jack's bellows was the morning lagoon. Now it's another lagoon, and the third one is developing. That's where tourists will be streaming. It is often forgotten in the discussion of the great nature of the country that it is not available for everyone to examine it. Bioavailability issues have to be added in many places, and there is a Lakejörður park, although certain steps have been taken in recent years. I sincerely hope that the commanders of Lakejörgjörg and the highest. A minister will make it his goal to improve the ability of the highest access to the major natural bulbs in parks in the coming years so that everyone can take a look at this national treasure. That's exactly where I'm talking about those who have the least chance of getting to that place. This is where we talk about people who are on crutches, walkers, wheelchairs, people who do not have the position to reach these places easily. Sadly, this is often what we want to forget. Often it is forgotten that these individuals have the same need to enter the parks and enjoy them as others who have a much easier chance of getting to places. This view often arises that they need to build a proper road, and there would be more traffic and more damage to nature. But we cannot see this in that context. We cannot discriminate against people by whether they have a huge jeep on giant couches and can get everything, even out of the way and cause harm, or whether anyone wants to get to a certain place, a place of view, or enjoying the wonderful nature. This must be guaranteed, and we must make sure that, in such cases, there is no discount on the facilities and access being built up. We must and must ensure that, regardless of their potential, all of us have increased access to the natural world. That's what I think it's all about. I think it's absolutely right to get this place as close to this environment as possible. That's it. The Hornfjord Sea is an ideal place to initiate this structure. I hope so much and fervently that a minister will see to it that nature will be carefully followed and that he will also be seen to keep the priority of all the access being built up and designed for everyone, not just for those who are healthy and can easily travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u27	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers for their reporting, but more than just for the official work of the reporting process and I think it's a big improvement. I rejoice in the speed and success of this work. It is important to send a clear message about how governments want to see this build up and that there is something to be followed by the law. It is proper to keep it in mind immediately what our core goals are with the law on Lakewater earth. They are primarily protecting nature, environment, and life and such. They are making it possible for the public to see and enjoy our country and the natural marvels that we have and to contribute to our research and monitoring and knowledge of nature and life and society and all that is connected to the park and to strengthen our settlements, to strengthen the inhabited earth around the national park. I believe that these goals will be achieved by the success of those who manage daily business and operate in the park as close as possible to all these factors and live and move in the same environment and habitats and activities and challenges, for certainly there are many challenges. Then I just want to review the development of the last few years. I'd like to commend the administration of a Lake Kingdom park, and especially the staff who has done an incredibly powerful and excellent job in building up the national park's internal functions in order to cope with all these challenges. They have been challenging because the park is large and covers much land. It is a very complex and different business environment. At the same time, however, the number of tourists has increased. There have been climate changes, and this has been a number of challenges. It has been expanding, and many projects are being developed, and this has been linked to building central support within the national park. There's an office manager, a financier, a lawyer, a high-manager, a human resources manager, an instructor, and you could count on it. This is very important to help deal with all the diversity of tasks that are there, and it helps the nuclear activity in all the areas. The park is divided into areas, and in each area there are one or more national parks and auxiliary park guards with so land prices and other employees responsible for each area and cooperate with their local council. All of this needs to be played together. As we understand, the park will cover a large landscape and belong to a considerable number of rural areas, so its base will always be scattered. Well, let's be clear, then, that there are some legal work posts in the National Park. They are: kennels, waters of the lakes, Skulls, Hornfjords, Skaftfells, and cemeteryscords. It is agreed in the administration of Lake Bay National Park that the experts are to be advertised in this supportive service at one of these legal centres. That's extremely important. This is where the government made the decision to initiate this trend that I find a minister to be in position by making that decision to move the headquarters to the Hornland. The decision is linked directly to the president's office. However, other parkal and central positions can be in all these legal facilities, and they are very relevant, and I think that this is of utmost importance. At the end of the line, I'd like to say that in this connection, our communities are very important, in planning and other equipment, they make sure that there is a job position, and that there is an apartment housing and conditions so that people can and would like to move to these stations so that when the park advertises after work and a qualified person wants to apply for them, he can move to the appropriate facility and be able to choose a home. There's a basis for this to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u28	Madam President. I'm not going to have this far. Most of all that is said has already been said. Reports at the top. Minister is interesting, and I thank you for her. The United States will likely agree that it is a waterland park for the benefit that the Agency's legal home will be transferred to Refar and that the national park's executive is doing a job there closer to the National Park itself. However, there are some questions about the planned implementation of the move. In announcements and in the secretary's report, the Commission, financial manager, and three other employees are now having a location in the capital area and a position to work in Gardenville, but, following the change, the Commission will have the main work station on the Cape of the Hornfjord. The other staff are not mentioned, so the announcement can be understood so that they will remain in Garville while the manager goes east. If this is the case, the question of whether it is simply best for the entire staff to have a situation in the Ocean, in the same way as the manager. It works as if the side effect is just on a punt if the legal agency only follows one employee while the rest is sitting in the capital area. I wondered, too, how it works to have the Agency's executive staff several hundred miles away from the financial manager and other employees. Even though we're all moving towards a job without a location, you wonder who the vision is, if it's, as I said, on the punt. According to this, I feel that the change is basically for the better. The U.S. Senate must hope that this program will serve its declared purpose and expand the work of the National Park. In a larger context, then, ask yourself, " Is there no greater need for any other national park, such as to form an institution of a highland park that is still under control? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank like others. Minister for your report. The natural nature of Lake Bay National Park is unique, and history has no global history. The 2008 national park was recently approved on UNESCO's world calendar, or 2019, a recent visit to some 2 million tourists in the national park. The main active base of Lake Bay National Park is located on the Cape of Hornfjord, on the cemetery, on the Offshore, in the Áskól, in the Mohawk, and in the Isthmus. The national park's legal home, however, has been in the capital area, Garden Town. The park, of course, is a national institution, and it is certainly appropriate for its activities to be fully accomplished in the most relevant areas of the country. The decision has now been made to move the formal home and legal home of Lakejork National Park to Hafnar in the Hornfjordur in the fall. This decision was made in agreement with the park's administration, which represents representatives from all the territories of the park. The decision to move the park's residence into the country has long been under discussion, and it has generally been considered beneficial. There are many factors that recommend this move. Although Lake Bay is not in the capital area, the park's legal home has been there. It is new, however, that decisions relating to areas outside the capital area are taken there, i.e. in the capital area. This has been the case by the continuous transfer of public activity from the country to the capital area, with the expected loss of employment in these settlements. The transport of Lake Bay National Park to Hafnar in the Hornfjord is advancing the area through the development of public activity. This decision is in accordance with the new strategy we have for the treatment of the council these days and the current government's emphasis on increasing the percentage of public work in the region that can be found in the Treaty of Pronunciation, Independence Class, and Left Forces of Green. The transport is the sponsorship of the institutions of the Environment, Energy and Climate Ministry. With these transports it is expected that the head of Hornfjord will be strengthened by the manager who will have the main work center, but there is a possibility that more status values located in Garðatown will be moved there, which would be obvious and important and good next step. So I welcome this move, and I say, at last! However, it is appropriate that Lake Bay National Park's legal home be placed on the Cape of the Hornfjord. They're people who know the territory best. Most of the territory is affected, and they know best what needs to be done in the area. This certainly involves jobs that have the nature of the situation in common with the country they are considering. You see, it is the locals who often play a key role in getting progress through and through. Interestingly, plans for the main office have not been started immediately in 2008 in the park's territory. All jobs in the national park should be placed in the territory of the individual. It is imperative that the world headquarters be located in the park's territory. In this context, I would like to point out the need for the staff of the North and Eastern base to be promoted. It is long time for us to look at their territory and increase our employment opportunities there. The dream outcome would be that operations in the North and East will be strengthened so that at each work station, there will be several employees who will be doing both local tasks and tasks in behalf of the entire national park, which cover about 15% of the country. This is a big area, and we need to keep it tight. These are nature-sponsored views. At the same time, however, we tend to support the local tourism sector. There are many opportunities, and I think we can take them seriously by having those who make decisions about the area there. Alternatively, the function cannot be properly balanced. In a lakeland nation park, 37 work as regular workers. These are highly knowledgeable and experienced employees, 32 of whom work at national work stations, but over the summertime, fleets are greatly added. Thus, there are up to 80 employees who care for the land guard, service, and education to the guests of the park, all of which are employed in the country. In 2021, about 50 years of work was done in a lakeland park, with about 90% of them in the country. Thus, there is a wide range of employment opportunities associated with the park. They should all be in suitable areas. . i.e. around the park itself, not hundreds of miles away. In addition, I'd like to mention the opening of a new formal work station of Lake Seven National Park in cooperation with Giggi at Skútús in a Moy Lake Company. Last year, the government established its sale of Hotel Giggi's property in Skulls in a Myy Lake Company, which was originally the role of the country's child school. That's where the station's been placed. Göggis is also to host the common guest room of Lake Sevenlands and nature protection sites in a Myy Lake Company where the information and demonstrations of the National Park and the Moy Lake and Laxár's reservations will be found. This is a positive development that is worthy of commendation. It also contains EEA Directorates, Landing and Nature Research Centres on Lake Mey. At that time, Giggis will have a research site in the common community of Skulls and the Þingal Islands, thus strengthening the community's support for much more important things, which today operates there, for example. National Parker, assistant parkkeeper and lawyer of the National Park. The construction of a guest room in a CEE country is thus building a vital service network of Lakejork national parks, even more so, as the law on Lakes has to say. The building is added to the park's visiting room, which is also the Snæfells Room and the Glossy Room. Attendance, employment opportunities, and the activities of the guest room can be added by making them open for the whole year. It has many opportunities to travel, both for Icelanders and for foreign tourists. Likewise, I would like to mention the importance of promoting the work station at the Shire in the Snæfells Office in a joint relationship with the Flaastown office. A respectable president. While the plans we discuss here are happy, today they are just plans. The transfers have not been successful, so I want to sharpen the order of Congress and the government to carry out the planned actions. Now's the time. This has to happen because it's not enough here. The reason I mention this is that a comparable announcement was made in 2017 when the park's nation's headquarters was moved east of the Shire. So it is my hope that it will not go as it did in the year. I'd like to encourage the highest. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister to follow through on this, leading to a successful outcome. ≥ 1/1,000 to -... andairslrh. : Haven't I?) The transport would be the function of the park and the inhabitants of the region - yes, you were opening it up in fact the other day - for the benefit of it, and I'm convinced that after the transfer, we'll scratch our heads and think why we didn't do this before. Then I would also like to encourage the United States and the government to identify the possibility of comparable transport within other institutions, especially when the population activities are primarily in the country and within the country. The opportunity is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u30	A respectable president. I thought it was wonderful when I drove East to the Cape of the Second Assembly election to experience the glacier almost just out of the window and the magnificent thing the glacier created in the environment of Hafnar. That is why I am excited to see that an organization is being moved as this one from the capital area and in the country where it truly belongs. As a member of this district, I must celebrate more jobs in my district. However, it caught my attention when I read a report about this on May 4 of that last year's publication, with the permission of a president: In the fall of the Shire, the Shire's inhabitants will be amazed at this news report from the capital area to Hafnar in the Hornfjordur. They meant that the park's headquarters had been transferred there five years ago. Only lower is: Then, in 2017 and March 21, it turned out to be a skunk in Fellatown, near Eglish position. There was a report on the transport of headquarters to the country and opening of a new main office in the province. I must wonder, in the spirit that we are working for the whole country: what happened there? Why are the Shire dwellers surprised at what is happening now? Why could it not be said that this main office would be moved east? Now another decision has been made regarding her move. I'd appreciate some information about this. V.E.G. A minister I would like to first thank for bringing his report here at the beginning of the discussion mentioned that, indeed, there is a Lake Bay National Park not in Garða. For this reason, I would like to mention that the Cheflavor airport is not in Hafnarfjördur. I wondered for this reason, because the minister also mentioned that in the law there was permission for a minister to move to institutions under him, whether it was not only a course of wisdom to remove the Istavia headquarters from the Habitats. ≥ 1/1,000 to -... andairslrh. : You're talking to the wrong minister.) I'm just name the administration in general and usually because I've heard the highest. An inside minister says that there is nothing for Istavia to do in this regard. Isn't this just the same thing? Are we setting up bases away from work in certain places? I think I'll go on and push this case forward. I think it would be reasonable for us to consider that if the source of the work is somewhere, then the headquarters is there too. I just wanted to mention it for this reason because Lake Earth is certainly not in Garða. Because we're talking about national parks, I'd like to mention something else. A report published by The Watchtower of 2018, which had much to say about the park's affairs. There were things that were lacking. I don't know if it's been fixed, but one of the points was that part of the operation was in Garville and another in Fellatown. Is it not true, then, that the entire operation is in one place, either Cape or Fellaville or Garden Town, so that entry of accounting is not in one place and some control in another? Is this problem being solved by moving the headquarters to the Cape if a certain part of the operation is in Fellatown? Is this meeting the Kingdom Accounting Guide being met? The report says that if financial and business management is divided between work stations, there is a risk that procedures will become inefficient and perspective reduced, as we have seen. I wondered if this problem is solved because part of the work at Fellatown and the other part of the Cape.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u31	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his report and information to us on these plans, while at the same time saying that I celebrate these plans immensely, and perhaps most important, because when the law on Lakewater earth was adopted in this hall in 2007, it was a landmark law in Icelandic history. I'll let me go so far as to say it. It was decided by a code of law that cleared the area, a large area of about 13% in, I think, just about 15% today with enlargement in the twelve years or what it is. Except that the park's administration arrangement was a turning point in relations between state and rural society, with a large number of rural communities that benefited greatly. Hence, the administrative arrangement, as the minister discussed in his talk, was established by this landmark method, and the arrangement has proved to be a great deal of reconciliation. And in the foregrounds of the ultimate. A minister in the field for the discussion of high national parks, as it was merely present in previous talks, laid the groundwork for comparable lines in a highland park reflecting this over a larger area, i.e. Which lead to all the highlands. This arrangement is truly worthy of imitation when it comes to finding a common conclusion and a suggestion, I will allow myself to say, the arrangement of a country, which in this case bowed to a peace-lighting area. This was a model and a far - reaching view on the part of the Generals for having reached that conclusion at the time. This year's Regulation draws the boundaries of the park and, as any of the known ones, it is never in any void, but always in this rich partnership and in the conversation of rural society and the public, which will take formal oversight and control of the areas. Because of what? paritaprevir Guðbrandur Einarsson published a report published in 2017 on a serious position established by this government agency, I would like to say that since that report was published, a major reversal of the Agency's activities has taken place, a major increase in activities. Nearly all of them, if not all, are outside the capital area, because there are now discussions, and billions of them have been put in the construction of the infrastructure in a perfect rhythm - and I'm not saying that we can't always do better - with the development we've seen since 2011 and 2012 in the growing tourist population. Thus, in both the administrative structure and the indications that the National Reconnaissance reported in a report, it can be said that governments have failed quickly and definitely with a powerful group of personnel at this institution to control the challenges we face, as there are many of our major natural bulbs within the park. We're talking about a glacier that comes in on top of 2016, if I remember correctly, rather than 2017. We're talking about Skaftfells, where we've got over 50 years of peace descriptions, Jack Gorges like this, just for example, except for very valuable highlands under there. Complete, therefore, I allow myself to assert, I go so far as a respectable president, that it has been very successful with the suggestions and ideologies behind the law on Lake earth. In fact, I remember, having observed in this sector for a very long time, that the nature of the situation has never been affected by anything other than the fact that the work was centered in the region or in the territory of the park and now felt that the first yards of this agency had a rapid change to the job position of the executives in front of it, and I think that there was one office manager involved in that was in the capital area. All right. This does not alter the fact that the minister went over in the talk, that 90% of the activity, through and over with the temporary increase over the summer period, is the function of that, all outside the capital area. I'm glad that these plans have now been attached to moving the home of the law. But in view of what I've been listening to, I want to think about one of these ideas. Councilmen. Because now all of us have experienced this in the context of technology development, and perhaps the evolution of mentality with a view to future activities, I have always had a very difficult time understanding why a home or residence, especially a manager or director, would have to be attached to a certain chair in a particular place. But okay. If this is the case with the law, we won't change it in this case. But being present, as the situation exists today, there are nine employment posts under which there are a great example in the Marine Department, the Environment Agency, which has for decades, certainly high for 15 years, let's say, advertise almost all their jobs - it's a very large facility - without the fact that this is about a fixed location, but it has been possible for people to choose the different EEA services of the nature of the EEA according to a project throughout the country, both in peaceful but also in its state of pollution control and other aspects. Would it not have been possible to see that the work of the manager in this case, which I know to advertise, is only advertised at one of the national park's posts that will be, as I understand this, all outside the capital area? Hadin' said so, beident of Reykjavík, I don't see any resistance to having a peace-installed territory in Reykjavík, just nothing. Although they are more or less than all outside the capital area, I would like to mention in the context of the concept and a proposal that has long existed in the vehicle team and discussed the importance of setting up a special guest room for a peace-lit area in the capital area. We know that the trunk of our visitors who come to the country is coming here to visit and see Icelandic nature. The guestrooms are eyes into what we can possibly see and get to know. They're also a very important tool to manage round because if you come and do not know exactly where you are going, you may simply build your idea on a photograph or a Instangram-shot somewhere from, you can get a guide module and information about where you should go where the insides can receive you and your experience is not necessarily disturbed because it is overcompressed or not too strong to receive you. Well, then guest rooms are the first stop. I've heard a lot of crazy things but that of setting up particularly in Reykjavík some kind of eye for a peaceful territory. There's nothing unusual about them being assigned to the position in Reykjavík, so I'll give it my opinion. I also welcome the plans of the minister, whom he mentioned in a talk and, in fact, has said for another reason, to examine the composition and possibilities of the various public institutions, many of which are truly related. It shows that specific institutions, the Þingalva national park, part of the EEA, and the Water Diving Nation, are working on exactly the same projects in different parts of the country. I know a lot about these sectors, and I know that they are very interested in the fact that these institutions can share their powers with one social security number. I'd like to allow myself to put it that way without going to a special location there. If such an institution was ever to be realized, it would be the nature of the case, as it were, with scattered work posts all over the country. Then I'd like to come to something else I'd like to celebrate too. I see that a minister, I suppose it was last week, participated in an opening of a guest room that has been held here in the mouth, a guest room in a lake squad that is then completing what is required in the law of Lake Bay National Park, that operates only six main clinics or guest rooms within his circle. It's a good thing that all these years later it's run out, and it's happened in a way that gave us a place that was originally built as a school, and later became a hotel, in a great place in the middle of a Moy Lake band, which is still a natural bulb and is a member of another institution. Under this same roof, it is not only a combined visitor's room of Lake Sevenlands and a peace-infested region in the Moy Lake United States but we are looking at this as the position of the four public institutions that work and work in a Moy Lake country and, third, the facilities for other public jobs if they were willing to do so. That's where I feel we're moving closer to the understanding and standards we've come across in the past few years, especially with Covid, i.e. that it is not necessarily important to know where we are located, given that we can only do our job. That is why I do not see a conflict between a book sitting in Fellatown and the financial manager of Reykjavík and the manager with a position to work at the Cape of the Hornfjord. There's just no point, so I'll give it my opinion. But I would have liked to hear the explanation for why it is absolutely necessary, if it is necessary to advertise the job of the manager and lawhouse to a particular station, to advertise the work regularly at this station. In the end, I'd like to say something. I know that this is a rich and good deal for this rural society to take care of matters so that things like housing can be met, I understand. That is, in effect, a position for these individuals. If we're talking about strengthening individual services, such as in this case at the Ocean, it's just the setting, the job itself, which is truly the structure and growth of non-local activities for cleaning - I take a good recent example from a Myy Lake Company - but also housing or housing for the employees who wish to do so. Take, for example, a qualified person who is hired for a job. He lives somewhere else but wants to move. But he may simply not be able to move because, as we know, he has a home environment problem throughout the country. I see that during the council arrangement for a community plan that is being discussed at the council and that is now in the wake. The Environment and Transport Committee is a very interesting operation, the team B7 on local jobs, where it is wondered that there will be a possibility that the Substitution Fund can somehow contribute to attracting people to rural society, just to create this field-based position, which is interested in living in that rural society. I think there would be a comparable choice when it comes to an apartment building because there is truly an unreceptive work for cleaning in many parts of the country. To that end, I reiterate my opinion as a member of the city of Reykjavík, and I encourage you. Councilmen and the highest. To consider, consider the possibility and importance of a country's service to set up a guest room in the area of the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u32	Madam President. There is reason to welcome in particular the discussion under the oral report at the top. Environment Minister on Lake Earth Park. When a Lakejörk national park was attacked, it was the largest nature protection project we've ever done since the beginning, very ambitious, very important. It was a false alarm, and I'm going to be allowing myself to mention it only, in the motion given by Hjörleifur the son of Guttormsson, who spent a long time in the council for the People Coalition and made a suggestion for the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country. It was then the Environment Minister, Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind, who moved on to the Parliament's resolution to work on such a national park and then was adopted by 2007 by legislation and formally set up on 7 June 2008 to have his 14th birthday next week. It was not least for the zealous progress of the first administration, both preparatory and national administration, under the leadership of Kristín Ólafsdóttir, who became a rule that has worked so well for 14 years. This is where localisation is the key and that new development is the IUCN ideologies of national parks to the limit, how you divide them, what kind of activity is permitted within national parks and how we operate them. How fortunate it was that the park's activities were taken, not by bans, but by the definition of how we were going to use it! I think it has given this park its place, not just here, in this country as the largest national park in Europe, but its role in our contribution to international nature protection because, as it has been pointed out, that it has entered the UNESCO World Memorial and is an immense contribution to international protection. That's what I'm going to say. Where would we have been at this time as a revolution in tourism, and here, not just 500,000 tourists a year, but up to 2 million in a few years, as we know, would we have had the national park not even? to receive all these tourists who have come here to examine extraordinary Icelandic nature. In 2007 and 2008, there were not many people who had strong faith in the establishment of this park. I remember this discussion. There may have been other things to think about in those years. But I always argued that this was a huge research operation. It is, and the numbers show it and it's like the highest. One minister said: " Fifty years' work, 90% of them in the country. That is what counts in the construction of this park. It was the day that he was formed, first of course for the protection of nature, but of course for the development of jobs and infrastructure throughout the country almost because of the national park's size. These regional and national park prices and the work done in the districts have made it possible for us to build up wood in the vast area covered by Lakewater land. I'd also like to agree with what's been said about access, because it's also part of national ideologies that all people can have access to nature. I think it's very important that the discussion is maintained, and it has to be such that access is good in all national parks. Of course, it is not everywhere. However, there must be areas where everyone can enjoy them. I want to reiterate it here. Because of the material discussed here on the location of the manager and why it wasn't that way from the start, I just want to remember that there was one employee involved in this project. As it turned out, he lived in the capital city. But, of course, the policy was always that, and fortunately, it is working now, that the National Park headquarters is out in the country. It should be, and it is also of great importance that we look to more standards but as much as we can apply the benefits of this important national park to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u33	A respectable president. Milk is a very good sign. The content of this ancient saying is appropriate for the program. The term "virtue " means something that grows, grows, grows, and grows bigger in time. Moving the home and legal home of Lake Bay Nation is a step, certainly not a huge step for mankind, as the American astronaut once expressed it about the first step he took on the moon, but the necessary and praiseworthy step that I will take in and celebrate and, sooner, would have been. With all due respect for other areas far away and closer to Lake Bay, the Cape of the Horn is a self-required ideal place for the establishment and legal home of Lakejörður and his managers. In jobs it is thought that change is not weighty, hopefully finding that more is involved and should be aware of more. Here and now it is primarily a symbolic statement that the cardiac administration of the Lakehjörg peoples should strike in its habitat, not in the capital area, and then the Dolphin must be at the top of it. It is also a symbolic declaration of public support and encouragement to promote initiatives, efficiency, and ideas of the locals themselves in small and large. Good things happen in the home too. This should not be so that there are always rules or bans in the South. Therefore, I rest primarily on the spirit and content of this matter. It involves a message in a statement and a decision of the highest degree. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister of the Goddess of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son to move the home and legal home of Lakejörgjörður from Gardavor to Hafnar and the message spoken from my heart. Right in this spirit is also a message from Áslaugar Sigurbjörnsdóttir Bearsdóttir, the highest. Secretary of the university, industry, and innovation, from earlier this year on, to reach all the jobs that its Ministry will be free of location. The Ministry is the first agency to issue such a statement, and for that I would like to thank you. I now bear in mind the basic energy and power of the local people. So I don't refuse to finish my case by referring to the newest airline in the country, Niceair, with bases in Akureyri. This morning's year from Akureyri and the Northland brand for this company is almost tangible. Figuratively, the first plane is Sulu, named after the town mountain of Akureyri. However, it is also symbolic that the airline is entitled to the full name Niceair, North Island. There is a clear message to the national part of the country as well as a clear message to people and companies about this possibility of transporting people and products between Akureyri and abroad. Niceair is an initiative in the home, a praiseworthy growth wand with reason to congratulate all of us. A new location in the Ocean's Lakes National Park will also be in its own way a rod of growth for which to congratulate all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u34	Madam President. We'll discuss the transfer of the formal home and home of Lakejörður Garden to Hafnar in Hornfjordur the next fall, and we'll do so because the Guðvar Þór Þórðarson, Environment, Energy and Climate Minister, introduced this plan to the government meeting not long ago. It is good to remember, as many have noted, that in 2007 a lakeland was established by law. These are about 15% of the surface of the country that is below, reaching Lake glacier and large areas in its vicinity, including the parks that were once in Skatta falls and the Jack Gorges. The park's land covers eight rural communities with about 13,000 inhabitants, and the park is, just to be said, a priceless pearl on a global scale, and we must associate with it in that context. It is a sign that we all agree on this now, but perhaps some decades ago we would not have been. When the plans were introduced, a minister said: " Water lagoon isn't in the capital area, and I've never understood why the park's legal home is in the capital area. Now that I'm in a position to change this, I'll do it and move with it an important job in the country. This is a good and valid viewpoint so widely seen, and I support the basic thinking of it and the practicality of this particular case, both since it can be more suitable and more favorable, that institutions are directly linked to people, places and the activities under the institution, which are also easier to do today by changing technology and by increasing technology. In many cases, jobs do not have to be confined to a specific location. But in a very number of cases, this can be better. And so it is that in this arrangement, there is often a better use of tax money. But it doesn't matter how this is done. Sadly, we have suffered because such changes have been badly carried out and as a result of a specialised staff, specialists, managers, and others who did not want to join the agency when it is found a new residence. It is not good when that happens, so it is of vital importance that the function is not weakened by some sort of leak of wisdom. I can't see, though, that this is the case when we're talking about the transfer of a Lake Bay National Park to Hafnar in the Hornfjord, and that's fine. However, there has been a lack of consultation and information in this matter, which transpired in the response of others since the time of the shooting. We're also familiar with a recent news broadcast. Sadly, it seems that a traditional tughead between areas and rural communities in this matter and has to be resolved so that everyone understands. A call in such a subject is of no benefit to anyone, and it may well be understood by people's viewpoints on the Shire that long thought the work would improve there, but not elsewhere. Of course, disappointment can result when such a situation occurs and must be avoided by governments, as it is sensitive in places where every work is important. I hope this new order will be to promote the work, to the park itself and to build and to work and to live in the area. We have much to do in these areas. I'm also going to agree with what Guðbrandur. Einarsson It is important that the comments made by the Kingdom Accounting Board for a few patients on the business and activities of the Lakewater nation give back the desired and the long term. Of course, we are thinking years ahead, even decades. Finally, I would like to remind you that when we discuss the national park in a larger context, my class will speak clearly, as we want to be developed to strengthen the local parks and create jobs and circumstances in close cooperation with rural society for diverse research and the need to implement nature protection, national parks, services under one agency to integrate decision making, increase efficiency and improve capital efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for good discussions and only want to handle a few things. First of all, it's not a question, is it? The decision has been made. No one needs to wonder. It's been reported. Second, regarding the comments given by the State Accounting of the Times. Happily, they have been met and most unlikely by the recent business that such comments would come back. That's what I'm talking about. Councilmen refer to the interests of Reykjavík. I'm a senator for Smoking. I'm 1st. Reykjavík, north, has been blessed for some terms. I've been scolded for the many times I've been ashamed to come down here and pick up Reykjavík's business and take care of their interests. But it's just that it's in our interests that there's a certain safety in the country if, for example, something wrong with us. But then I give all emphasis to the fact that status knowledge is new. I don't think anyone would think that's a good idea, not even Iceland, if we were to be in the Faeroe Islands from Iceland. We just don't know well enough till then. Regarding these areas, this scope of what we are discussing here, it is so important that knowledge is in the field. Just so you can say: This bulletin of the U.S. Radio News that is here being referred to my wonder. I'm not familiar with such talk in the management of Lake Bay-Scool Park or with the rural authorities I've been talking to. It was a certain thing that happened back there. It wasn't the director. It was the financier who was supposed to move. It didn't really work out. But just to be perfectly clear, there are five people in Garden Town. There's one in Akureyri. There are five in Fellaville, three in the Lake country, five in the Jack Gorges, 17 in the Skulls of Skattur, or in the glacier, eight on the Hornfjordur, and four in the local community. These are the employees. What has happened now is that the home has been moved, and a new manager takes over in the fall of Cape. There's also news, based on the information I have, that there's one of these, another employee in the Gardenville who's buying housing at the Cape, and probably he's going there too. Then the head of finance is ending because of a fall in age, and a new manager will announce that position. Here's what we're thinking: We've got a work post around Lake Earth park. It is legally bound, and the work is advertised at these stations. I think it's good, and technology has really helped us in this regard. I like the comment here on the bioavailability issues. I'll look into it quite specifically. But then, too, when it comes to national parks and peaceful areas - because it's with 15%, we're at least 30% of the country when all the forms of peace are taken - I've set up a group that's supposed to do a certain status report, a green book, if they want to call it that way, under the direction of Finnsson's Árni. There are also the Santa Sveinbörn of Halldórsson and Guðrún Svanhvít Magnúsdóttir. It's no secret that the information is just like in the green book on energy and climate. We need to discuss these matters, and we need to make sure that the arrangements for national parks and peaceful areas are as good as possible. The point is this in my mind: It is quite clear, and it was rightly shown that a good job has been done. You don't want to get caught in what has been called a leak of wisdom, so this is not a failure. There is no quick move. They're just making a decision that the projects they're advertising will be in the country around Lake Bay Park, i.e. The base in Lakejörk National Park and the residence in Cape Town. I think it's a strange story that when I inquired about how many senators have visited the station today or the headquarters, no senator has visited them. I am quite convinced that, a respectable president, there will be a big change, and I don't think any senator will be going to the Cape in the future without stopping into Lakehjörn's residence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u36	Now taking the matter into consideration is a vote on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u37	Madam President. I have decided to bring this matter to a considerable degree, even though I feel that in itself there is much unclear about what this government is going to do, something that isn't done now, and what problem it is to solve. The reason I'm coming up here is because I want to make the words of the relatively newly appointed director of the Land Hospital mine, where he says that there was a medical planning operation, especially in the capital area, for years, and that it has been for many years that the hospital's work would increase and that the problem is gravely serious and vast. Health care problems. This is the task that faces and needs to be resolved. This is not what the Land Hospital government will do. But there is health control. It's the government of Iceland and I'm going to use this opportunity to promote it in these matters, but don't push them over to the health care board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u38	A respectable president. I'm here on a change proposal where we want a user council agent to get an agent on board, an officer from the audience. It's not going to be approved. I just have to say this as it is. It has been suggested by the Generous Community and others: none of us without us. It is always meant on days and in some special cases that it should be taken into account. But when they're under pressure, they don't get in. Having some kind of user advice that might be taken into account, but there's no way to monitor whether their suggestions are respected or done with them, is mere showyness. That's why I'll be in yellow. Of course, I'm on the motion of changing. I really hope that we will act on what we say and allow everyone to join us so that it will not be a mere virtual agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u39	Madam President. I come up to call attention to a new arrangement that is involved in this matter from a minority of welfare committees. We have recently heard a number of reports of health - care users, from patients, even well - chosen representatives who have not reached the health - care provider's ears in times of trial, very real stories. I think it would be very important for the Government to have one user of the service inside, a user of the service that doesn't have the right to vote. That is why it is important that we join forces and ensure that one such voice is in the administration of a Hospital. This is health care. This is our national hospital, and it is important that those who run it hear the voice of those who use the ministry. Therefore, I encourage Congress to support the adjustment of my things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u40	President. This is quite interesting because the information we have received, e.g. The budget of the hospital has been the same years from year to year. But for some reason, it seems that governments just don't believe them. Putting some government control over the Land Hospital, where the information is repeatedly submitted to governments that have only a better approach to that group, may at last lead governments to believe what is said about how well - fired the Landsaholic is than how badly the medical system is. That's what this is all about. They've been trying to tell us over and over what is the problem, and it's never fixed. The management board of the Hospital is not losing its ability to fix it. But now it may be a credible way to tell the government where the problem lies, and that is exactly what the government has to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u41	Madam President. I recommend a synopsis of the conclusions of the Western Council in 2021 proposed by the Western National Council. This is how the lyrics sound, with President's permission: The Council concludes to challenge the government to work on the implementation of two of the Western Council adopted at the Council's annual meeting on September 1, 2021, for an increase in Western cooperation in environmental and climate fields (nr). 1/2021) and the cooperation of Western university on telecommunications (nr. (For fully formatted text, see publication). It's as simple as this as the suggestion. But I just want to explain the contents of these conclusions briefly. At the 2021 annual meeting of the Western Council, held on August 31 to September 1, two conclusions were agreed. The first deals with increased cooperation between Greenland, the Faeroe Islands and Iceland, on environmental and climate levels. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. Science studies show that global warming is twice as high as any northern region on earth and that the impacts of continued warming will be widespread for the population of the region. People in the region are all experiencing the consequences of climate change, and it is important that countries continue to play a key role in the efforts to support the sustainable use of natural resources and environment environment. Increased Western cooperation in common climate interests can increase the impact of the three countries on a global scale. In conclusion of the Western Council No. 2/2021 encourages education ministers of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands to increase the cooperation of the three countries on education through telecommunications. Technology development, improved telecommunication, and increased experience with telecommunications have completely altered the potential for urban population developing areas to pursue a wide range of university education. Distances may be high in Western countries, especially Greenland and Iceland. Faraway studies allow people who live far away from their capitals or urban settlements to pursue a wide range of educational backgrounds. With this in mind including it encourages education ministers of the three countries to consider the possibility of developing telecommunications in the cooperation of a university in three countries. By linking them with even greater bonds of knowledge and experience between countries, the university offers a growing range of telecommunications and telecommunications. So these are two suggestions adopted last year at the Summit of the Western Council, and it is being followed up here by directing it to the government in Iceland to work on the implementation of these two conclusions. You can look into the matter more closely in a report that follows the bill than I have here. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Commission for further discussion and hopes that this will be one of the cases that will be approved at the end of the council, which is about working on what has already been approved at the scene of the Western Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of history. I don't have a physical question about this conclusion. I just decided to use the opportunity because I like it, but I also feel a little bit special about the Western Council that I think, unlike all the other international committees involved in it. Now I have not been in the Western Council or in the Northern Council. I don't know if it's the same with the Northern Council. I don't think so. But I think I'm right about the suggestions that are approved there, coming in here in the form of a synonym, followed up. But I like this arrangement. I would, for example. very much would like to see it in my own international work, which is the Council of Europe, which is very often presented by excellent reports with detailed and well - developed references to its Member States on what they can do to strengthen democracy, justice, and human rights but to receive little attention here that is usually not carried out, just in view of the fact that it is hardly something that we can notice from the Council of Europe, which we like to cooperate with. I just want to ask you which one. A senator may not find it a basis for her to investigate the expansion of this project, whether there is anything special about the contract, the stock agreement, or our contract to the Western Council, which makes this arrangement so or whether it knows why the Western Council is alone on this project, and whether it is possible for her to expand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I have to admit as new in the Western Council that I don't know the history of why this operation is being carried out. But I'll get some information on it and find the point to share it with them. This has been a significant discussion in the Northern Council where I have been seated, just as it were, of how to follow things better and how to communicate more effectively at the councils. I think in some cases there have been some suggestions. Actually, I don't quite know how to do that. But this is exactly one of the things that have been said to refer to governments. Of course, when it comes to the Council of the Northern Union, however, there is also cooperation in the field of the Ministers, which has a formal conversation, and where it is fixed that the Council members of the Northern Council are meeting together with the council. In the same way, when it comes to the Western Council, it is not the Minister's Committee. Without the nerve to claim it, because as I said before, I don't know how this story works so well, I suspect there may be something to do with this arrangement. I'll get more information on this, because of course it's important that what we are participating in and making international decisions is taking place here within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u44	A respectable president... Thank you. A senator for the answers. It's a pleasure to know that she will help me get information on this subject. It is also interesting to hear of this difference between the Western Council and the Northern Council. I admit I don't know him well. With the Council of Europe where I sit, there is a natural minister council. However, this does not change the fact that the Council makes reference to the national conventions of the Member States. It's not to direct them to the governments. Then there's the Minister's Council of Ministers that makes special decisions, completely on other aspects of cooperation, etc. and questions are addressed to the National Parliament on the collection of information for this report. I've been very sorry that the work being done here at the Council of Europe is not better considered because there often there is a very progressive work on human rights and also on these new mails, these new ones, these new ones, what to say, futures for human rights, such as Human rights and their relationship to the right to wholesome environment, or artificial intelligence and human rights, a subject under the legal and human rights committee that I was taking over as head of. The work that comes from there can also help us prepare the work we are working here, especially because they are often so visible that they are doing things that they see in advance to become very important to have lived below themselves, such as this with artificial intelligence and human rights and how to protect them. And there are other things underneath that I don't have time to list here. So I reiterate the question, Is it not a reason to find a better setting than just one report talk a year about the international work of the Generals to present these fine indications to members of Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u45	Madam President. I have often expressed my opinion that I consider reasons for further and deeper discussions about foreign affairs at the General Assembly. During the counter-regulated period, I received a message concerning the Western North American Council that it is part of the arrangement in all the national sectors of that country, i.e. Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, providing the Parliamentary decrees in this way. But as far as I know, this is unique in the worldwide work. But let me get more information on this and if this could be a role model we can use elsewhere. That may well be so. At any rate, I agree that it is important for me to increase the matter of foreign affairs in order to get a better discussion of what those members of the Parliament who are involved in the work of the World Congress are doing and that this conversation is more effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u46	A respectable president. Thank you for the president of the Western Council. paritaprevir For good report, the Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadóttir. I also thank you for your cooperation so far in the council. We've worked well together so far. There's even a few ahead. a trip to Greenland, where we will review the state of the Western countries when it comes to climate as it is considered to this proposal. I briefly wanted to review my opportunities in this cooperation, because the idea behind the board and its organization was primarily based on this common background of the countries in various areas. We've got tremendous opportunities, including... in this complex climate class, which is the first part of this proposal. There is a tremendous opportunity in the close relationship between these countries, a respected president. We are in an area of global confusion that will feel enormously affected by climate change, and all these countries have a common way of potentially leading a climate change transformation and showing that to deal with threats that result from climate change all employment policies and the government need to take into account the changing world. The role of the government is to soften the impact of the changes to take place in climate change on vulnerable groups to ensure improvements in climate change are not exposed to public resistance. This is of utmost importance and needs to be discussed in this context. A respectable president. We Icelanders and I have a lot of knowledge and a lot of areas that need to be increasingly taken into account in terms of climate change and show that life - styles can be changed. You can't give all the responsibility to the public. The job life and the companies of the country and in these areas must be offered on climate-based products and services, and we need to change the scales we use in everyday life to evaluate the success of our community and the economy. In this context, it is clear that GDP and growth are not involved in the negative effects of certain productions in climate and health of people and of life. Here the government is responsible for designing a rule that changes the motivation of companies toward their cost actually reflecting the cost of production in society. I believe, more dignified President, that discussion about this is of utmost importance in the cooperation of the Western Council. In Iceland, channels are short, while others are smaller, but they have so much in common. Our communities have been affected by the Western Council's vast resources, human resources, but also by natural resources. We have enough energy to control, although it differs in intensity, water resources, sea resources. There are also new opportunities for tourism. All of this will come into the climate. So there is tremendous opportunity to take major steps in climate in these sectors and, of course, to form in the realms of renewable energy when it comes to wind, water, and currents, and, of course, here on land when it comes to the earth's heat. Here, however, the future and sustainableity of this resource must be looked forward to, and this gives the Western countries a chance to be at a guide for pure energy exchange. Thus, it is important that the nations cooperate with one another even more when it comes to sharing knowledge and technology in this area, and we Icelanders can provide a measure of leadership, but much is learned from the other nations in the council. I would like to mention, in this context, the transformation that must take place in the sector, e.g. in the use of oil. We have quite an experience in Iceland to be in the lead globally when it comes to increasing sustainable use of marine products, the least discarded and exemplary, and the use of oil is now being taken into consideration as well as to their leadership. No doubt they will be discussed at the scene of the Western Council. These nations will have much in common when it comes to the fishing route and its strengths, and I look forward to that discussion. Then energy issues are many of the interests of many people now, including On account of the situation that has come up because of the war in Ukraine. We see black in white how sensitive the transformation can be on the position of vulnerable groups and many homes in the presence of a lack of energy. On the other hand, the situation in Europe may lead to increased pressure on growth in green energy sources. This will take time. At the same time, it has to be ensured that people in a more sensitive position will not be affected by changes in energy. This is essential for these changes not to be opposed. Energy security, a respected president, is a big case in many parts of the world but, quite well, to be photographed in Greenland. We Icelanders have come to realize that when it comes to the activation and knowledge of this area, it is useful in the relations of the countries. But we also have experience in how sensitive that group can be when it comes to finding a balance between energy sources and nature protection, and that is where we are concerned. The Greenlanders have also made the remarkable decision to ban oil search in Greenland despite the financial opportunities it could follow. But there they draw a line that explains that this is how they do not want to build up their economy and society but take the lead in green transformation. This, a dignified president, is an example, and we Icelanders can learn much from this Greenland attitude of looking after nature, looking wide, wide, and down into time for what kind of years we want to be in our society. It is an enormous opportunity to build climate - living things in Western countries, and this can create a unique situation in this area. In travel services, we also need to consider the climate and the kind of nation we are going to be in this area. The effects of large groups of tourists involved in nature - related tourism may be seen in the number of visitors who face similar challenges as we and Greenlanders. We need to discuss how we can defend our unique position in this regard. A link in this field needs to strengthen and get tourists to the table. Today, two Icelandic and one Greenlandic airlines have flown some 30,000 passengers from three destinations in Iceland to six in Greenland, and these are opportunities to promote the Faeroe Islands, Iceland, and Greenland as their destination in the north. This work is to be done in this discussion. In any case, there is tremendous opportunities for discussion in this area. Then there are tremendous opportunities to conform to national suggestions for making even changes. In the United States, for example, there was a synonym proposal made by my associate in the United States. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, has arranged for a green transition. It discusses the importance of budgeting and financial programmes reflecting the will of Iceland to keep commitment. That's where we're supposed to put the tone. Here we need to remember to set a good example in such a program, and our will must be made manifest in our schedule. Hv. Harðardóttir The fact that the market is not going to solve the climate problem on its own is also being addressed to the role of the government in this context. I'd like to say at the end that it is quite clear that there is an enormous opportunity for the increased cooperation of these nations, in both the development of employment, and also how we here are in charge when it comes to the nation and shape the framework of the public, sustainable society in these regions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u47	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion. She's very good. I can't wait to cooperate with it. With Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter in the Western Council and the replacements there I think it's very important for us to act there as a little brother in this cooperation, and that's how I've experienced it. They look up to us very much, and they really look to us in the opportunities we have in green solutions, especially the Faeroes and Greenlands, and we experience something as big as a brother in this matter. I also find it very interesting when I listened to this - and, of course, we agree on these matters, completely -- how we're going to explain to our cousins and friends in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands that we're actually stopping all of the energy exchange we're going to go to because a frame plan has such a thing. Couldn't they be approved here since 2013? It's all frozen in here for energy exchange. If we're gonna start building on green solutions, we're gonna need a different energy than we're using today. We're talking about a sustainable community, and that's where we agree completely. We agree that too many people are opposed to changing energy and using the resources we have to replace fossil fuels, the most important thing we can do in the climate. I call for a partnership with us at the council so that we can go to our best neighbors and tell them that we are going to make a lot of energy change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u48	A respectable president. That was a very clear question. Thank you. Ásmundur Ásmurmur Friðriksson for that entry. It hasn't stood, and it's not in the United States right now to support the box. I think it's really important that this situation be made up, and it hasn't been held in the United States Congress, just to make it clear. We support our mind with the necessary changes to take place when it comes to energy exchange. Of course, opinions about the demand for energy in the country have changed, as there is also a need to set energy priorities in some places. We've felt that way, and my coworker, please. Senator Sveinbjarnardóttir, Jr. Beard's daughter, has stressed that our priorities are at least to equal access to electricity, that the government has a role when it comes to the possibilities of individuals in the country to participate in the energy exchange. I realized on my trip to the country that people did not necessarily get involved in that energy exchange, they wouldn't have access to electricity if they were going to buy electricity and the like, and they got a little out of the way. In this case, I think we need to draw a certain line into the sand and say that we have a priority for the households, smaller companies. There's a lot of energy going to big companies here. It's good and good, as it is today. However, there are also future mice that need to be looked at, how to set our priorities for that energy if there are any changes. But the frame, a respectable president, doesn't rest on the Union's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u49	A respectable president. I wasn't accusing anyone of that, especially that of Kristrún Frostadóttir's fine senator. I blame all of us for not finishing these matters, and I agree with her that we need to establish priorities, and the people of the country want to share in the energy exchange, truly. I have a bill in this council to release a contract for Southnes Line 2, which is extremely important for Southnes. That's where we want our citizens and our professional life changing energy. Almost all of the U.S. rental cars are stored at the airport, but the electricity may not be loaded, even though the requirement for a certain percentage of rental cars is electric cars. There's one general loading station, one. If there's a senator with a power truck on the Southnes then there's one station to load. I went round the other day, and it was all the time with the person who was driving a electric car with us to find where the next loading station was. It was kind of a full - time job to figure out where the car could be loaded in the evening, and it had to be turned off at the center so that it would move to where the station was located. Still, we are saying that we are going to take the lead in these matters. I think we should all go to the Faeroe Islands and go to Greenland and to all other countries and tell them we're gonna take the lead, that we're going to make energy change, not talk about it, but do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u50	A respectable president. Yeah, I appreciate that comment. That's a good discussion. It's a really good discussion. I'd like to draw attention in this context to my coworker, okay? paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, has participated in this discussion on the Southnes line and has supported this plan. But we also need to keep in mind the situation when it comes to the planning of individual rural society. This does not change, however, because, of course, energy equals amazingly important. I don't know. I don't think there's any points. The candidate's interesting about access to electricity cars because it's also about opportunities for these different land areas, although the Southnes may be near the capital area, to participate in the revolution that can take place in tourism because one way we can advertise ourselves as a green area and an interesting area, in order to attract more people, is that they can travel here in electric cars. Many areas outside the capital area are not really able to offer this possibility because they do not have enough electricity or their infrastructure. This also matters to me, and to us equal; that I suppose most of the people in the assembly. We think of how we can make the electric parking system, the energy exchange, more accessible to others because most new cars in the country go through the tourism and the rental. Not everyone can buy a new car by 7, 8, perhaps high to 10 million. K. Access to participate in the energy exchange is based on the ability of the tourism to participate in energy exchange and is then loading posts and access to electricity. This is an enormous interest issue for the settlements as well as for the equal transition. So I just look forward to sharing in this discussion. The senator and the people who will cooperate with us in the Western Council now in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u51	Madam President. I come up here like someone else. Councilmen to thank for the discussion here concerning our great cooperation organization with the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlands, the Western Council. I don't think I'm exaggerating if I say this cooperation is next to our heart when we look at the cooperation we have on a global scale because the Greenlands and the Faeroes are not only close to us in geographic terms, but we have many other things in common. We have enjoyed both their fables and their friendliness in times of trial and experience over the years and decades. It is also very important that the Western - American Council be used by these three nations for cooperation and building. I am happy that this proposal is here and that it is under consideration at the General Assembly because I have often been involved in international activities as important and important as it is, as it has been, from the beginning of my life. Senator Thorhldildi Sunna Ævarsdóttir at the moment. The concierge of Árnadóttir, Þóra, that there is so much that members of the Parliament can learn in international cooperation. There are so many other things going on that we can use in our jobs and that we will also take advantage of taking in knowledge, scientific knowledge, and ideologies, and conversation that may not always take place in Iceland for such relatively obvious reasons. Not merely expanding the horizon but making a lot of money for members of the general body. Here are two suggestions. It has to do with telecommunications and climates, as we have seen. I'd suggest it for what? Senators from the Western Institute of Iceland, of course, that it's about to go -- yes, it's going to the end. State Department - but that it would also be discussed in the General Information and Education Committee and on the Environment and Transport Committee because of what is said here at least ... about telecommunications and college-level partnerships, as well as with the Education Committee. I'd like to point out that all other colleges were born in Iceland, that the University of Akureyri is very prominent in cooperation with North East University in telecommunications. He is, in effect, the principal figure among the peers, and he is making use of the knowledge available there in this cooperation. As a matter of fact, I just assume that it is. People are aware of this and that it is part of the mind behind it because it is very important. Then, as we have seen, it is suggested by the climate issues, of course, the most urgent solution for mankind. It is very important how this is done and how we use our knowledge as well as how we can share the common interests of Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands in that subject. I think I'm going to make a statement to some people in this hall when I say that we must stand with the Greenlandians in our command of natural resources and what Greenland wants and can do on their own land. We know that the government in Copenhagen and the government in Nuuk has often been torn between them. These are both governments that we also have in close contact with. But how important it is that we live with small nations even smaller than we are in their quest for resources, economic independence, and all that goes with it! In fact, the Greenlanders may have more land than our Faeroe Islands, but I think it's important to discuss climate matters in this context too. I'd also like to recall that it was before, probably, less than 20 years ago that climate change was first discussed in the Arctic scene, as well as in the Northern Council. This debate was held at a very remarkable conference held in Nuuk, and for the first time there was an official scientific study of how the Arctic and North Pole were really like the coal mine bird when it came to climate change, that there were the most important signs, they would be the first to come up there, the worst would be there. I'm sorry, chief. Mr. President, everything said in that outstanding report has been going ahead. Then we were discussing that if the permafrost were to yield, we would be in deep trouble. But it didn't suspect anyone, or rather say it, just nobody thought it would happen, 20 years ago. The permafrost has now begun to yield in the north. We don't have to talk about the melting of Greenland. We know what's been going on there. In the past five years, the Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow's Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow's Mellow Mellow Mellow Mellow Melt has been a dominant figure. So no cooperation is more important between these three countries than in climate. We also need to cooperate with these countries on specific projects, on scientific research and the building up of knowledge, to share in the work of these nations. We need to share with those of the great knowledge that exists in Iceland, including the U.S.A. Among the experts here, whether there are experts in natural science, weather patterns, water measurements, geology, where we have experts on a global scale. We need to take advantage of this opportunity to exchange information and make sure that it will benefit our good friends as they benefit us. Outwardly, these three countries, Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands can also be a voice in international fields, especially in the case of native rights, and when it comes to the state of the north, and how to provide human life and nature, and to make sure that disaster does not eventually lead to an uninhabitable northern direction at the end of this century. Sadly, if we do not begin to take on and reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases in our country and elsewhere, we will be much more effective than we have been doing. I'm glad that there's a special coverage in the Western Council, and I wanted to use this opportunity for a discussion about this Senate resolution to remind us that this discussion is not new, of course not, but it is just as important as it was 20 years ago and even more important. With Icelanders, governments, and the Allied Assembly of Iceland, there are many opportunities to use us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for his speech, which was of great interest in many aspects. When she spoke of cooperation with smaller countries, I found it very interesting at first. I felt that -- she said it not quite so - that maybe Icelanders are not cooperating with smaller countries - there is more to try to get something out of cooperation with the big nations and countries. I think this cooperation is very important. We are there in cooperation with two non-independent nations, but with home governments. I personally feel that Iceland has not cooperated with smaller countries. Yes, we have a university institution here called Laundromat in a small state. In fact, I think this cooperation with Greenland and the Faeroe Islands is very important, and we should have cooperation with islands in the Caribbean and in the Pacific, where there are little nations. It would be nice to hear from her experience about whether we don't have much to give. In fact, at the end of her talk, we would have a lot to give these little nations to support these communities, which are very special in many ways, especially Greenland, which is such a vast country, which would then strengthen the Western cooperation and cooperation with the entire North countries. I also found it very interesting at what was happening. A member of the Parliament that these suggestions should enter the General Information and Education Committee, where these are designed to teach and also on the Environment and Transport Committee. I think it's part of Iceland's own telecommunications that it should always be taken into account that telecommunications might be new to Greenland and the Faeroe Islands as well. There are tremendous opportunities there for telecommunications as well as, as indicated in the proposal, to increase the level of study initiatives in these countries regarding telecommunications. Then Iceland could do a lot of work. I wholeheartedly support the proposal that this will be discussed in the General and Education Committee and that it will be beneficial. Hv. A senator mentioned a conflict with Copenhagen. In fact, I don't think this cooperation should lead to any conflict with the Copenhagen government. Rather, they should probably be glad that this growth in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, as well as the rest of the Icelandic community, and thus normatic cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u53	8th yrs We're out of here. "Transun Sveinbjarnardóttir Þórunn. Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson economist for the counter-sponsion. Yes, cooperation with smaller countries is normal, and it's also wise, and although perhaps Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands may in some way be classed to a few countries, if you just look at the population and, at least, we know that many others think of us as doing so, this is our cooperation in the Northern Council, e.g. When you look at it on the foundation of the universe, it's the cooperation of small nations. But we don't look at ourselves that way, and it may say more about the image of the northern population than it has anything to do with my experience that in international cooperation, it's something like that, and it's my experience with cooperation in the climate agreement. There a small nation gathers because they have so many things in common. They have so much in common for economic reasons in relation to dealings with the giant nations and for example. Examples of very powerful cooperation in the climate treaties are islands in the South Pacific, which make up a very strong alliance, leading to the battle against disaster, warming. But because they know that if it happens and goes on the worst, their home will be gone. There their voices have been heard very loud and clear, and I have always viewed both of us as having a moral obligation to stand with other small peoples, especially when it comes to the reality of their very existence, as in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u54	Senators of the Northwestern District, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, would like to thank you very much. A senator for the answer. Yes, it is true that this is a very interesting subject and I find particularly interesting about the Greenlandic climate climate. What to say is a narrow syrup or central climate change regarding its demonstration of the fall in Greenland and all, on the other hand, in the Pacific. They're accepting the consequences so that the cooperation of all the little nations there and we would be very interesting and it could be a powerful alliance, not to speak at the scene of the UN General Assembly, you look to the votes. I think Iceland should put far more emphasis on cooperation with smaller countries than it has so far, and it would simply be a great deal of effort to make when we're an enormously successful society with our size. We're only 370,000 people, and I think six definitions. We're also a so-called micro State nation and that we don't view ourselves as a small nation. Then I know that I have felt that I lived in Norway that they actually talked more about themselves as a small nation than they did in Iceland. That's the way it is, and they're very good at what they do. They know of their smallness and have been caught in the hands of larger states through history, so I think we might have helped insulation. But I believe both of this goes into its amen, both of these proposals for telecommunications, as well as for the environment and transport committee on climate change. Work together. I think it would be good to work both the climate and the Peace Guard into our policy on these committees but we are now, I know foreign matters, but I just remind me to fly to Greenland from our national airport, Reykjavík, so we can take it a little bit on the inside too, so it's our closest state, and we're going to talk about the countries around us. Then these kingdoms are never spoken of. Finland has even farther away. It's not around us. These are the countries that are just around us, and I think we should actually continue here in this regard. But how nice it would be to hear a more thorough discussion about entering the Synod Committees! Then he'll answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u55	Senator of the Southwestern District, Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddóttir. Madam President. I'm interested in the fact that this discussion will go into the regular committees other than the Honourable Foreign Affairs Committee so that we can connect these subjects that are on the table of these committees. Of course, it is in the hands of the Committee how they do it and what they want to do with it. But I think it's so important that we understand the value of our connections and how, in fact, what we do at home matters for our international cooperation and vice versa, because this clear understanding may not necessarily be involved. But as for the Western Council, I think it means a lot to us, that good cooperation, and, of course, it's just like that. A senator points to, I'm an arrow we may be in. We are not very interested in discussing it all the time, but that is still how we define our position in the international community. However, it is not the size that really matters here but what people have to do with position. We have and for what issues we fight and in climate and education. As is the case, Iceland has a lot to offer, and we are to share it with our friends in this cooperation as well as with other things, which, of course, also put our responsibilities on being a model when it comes to the fact that, as in these two cases, climate issues, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and the building of university telecommunications. Very intimate and something that should be just a reasonable, reasonable moment, the wise conversation of these committees here at our fine place of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u56	A respectable president. I have a place in the Western Council, and I believe this is a very important case in the field and for the council to discuss and to enforce the decree to challenge the government to work on the implementation of these two Western conclusions of the Western Council, which were adopted in September of last year by increasing cooperation in environmental and climate fields, and the cooperation of the Western university on the other hand, is probably a matter and a big deal of importance on this cooperation and on climate, around the environment and climate, but it is also important that it is in the Treaty that the Treaty puts on these matters, and I can't see better than spending billions of dollars in Iceland during the next few years, and it is also important to look to the closest countries around us, and to use the term that it is still bigger. That's exactly where we're supposed to grow our garden, but we're not going completely out into the open, so our voice may not be heard even if we speak. We're not being listened to by these countries we're working on down here. The Western partnership is two countries that are not independent Faeroe Islands and Greenland are home government limited to self-administration, and they are fewer than we are 370,000. Greenlanders are 56,000 people, and the Faeroe Islands live 54,000 inhabitants. The country's size is very interesting, and Greenland is 2,1 billion square miles. Iceland is 103,000 km2. The longest country, however, is 1,500 miles [2,400 km]. These Faeroeves, Faeroe Islands are less than 1.5% in Iceland. By 21 times, Greenland is bigger than we are, so there is an enormous difference in the size of these countries. But we are the most crowded, and we are the only independent state, and like what. paritaprevir In their presence, Ásmundur Friðriksson looks very up to us in cooperation, and they probably use this site to promote their communities, perhaps to their independence. I believe that in the case of the government in Denmark, we are not in any sort of conflict. Should there be no conflict in this cooperation, and it is important that we not interfere with the independence struggles of these nations in any way, although we do everything to promote Western cooperation and that this cooperation promotes communities in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. That's just a good, powerful, bad North countries. They lead to an even more powerful northern country, and it is very important that countries such as Greenland find themselves, find themselves part of the North countries, an impenetrable body, and can join them on their own terms. It's good for Greenland, good for the North and good for Iceland. For the environment and the climate issues, this is the issue today and it is very important that support the sustainable use of natural resources and that environmental protection is laid down in cooperation as an important factor. Green exchanges and green energy exchanges are of enormous importance. Of course, green energy is there very important, and it was very interesting to hear it. A senator. Ásmund Friðriksson talked about energy, loading stations in Iceland, and shows how much we've gotten into it. I count for decades behind countries such as Norway, which is the third largest market in the world for Tefloli automobiles by the United States and China, and we should really spit in it, so we can at least drive the ring and west. A fire in an electric car myself didn't trust me to buy an electric car yet because of the loading car. The count starts driving through my own district in an electric car. I think it's completely excluded, so it shows what the situation is. We have much to contribute to the Western cooperation of energy, our knowledge of activations, hydropower activations, and there is a great deal of cooperation in the tourism industry, and this cooperation is made for many years and very successful. I believe, however, that there is a big difference between tourism, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland in terms of size and even more in common with tourism. We can look at more in Greenland there, and even more potential for the Greenlands to cooperate with us, which is due to air transports from Reykjavík to Greenland, and I know myself so that my good friends, he is selling trips to Iceland and he is selling trips to Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, but also, in particular, Greenland. In the world, people watch a lot of Iceland, and then Greenland, too, on the same page. It's very important to look to green, tourism there, and I hope it's part of this partnership. Another factor that really matters is that we have much to offer knowledge of these matters. Although we do not have enough knowledge, we do not. Then I think we can move a lot of knowledge into these communities, both Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, where we are the most proud and we have the most independent state. We're the only independent state, so we're a little more central. We are both in the country, in the middle of the country, and also in the highest and largest urban areas in the entire region, and the only city in real life as far as our telecommunication is concerned is an enormous opportunity for cooperation there, and especially in Greenland, where there is an enormous distance between areas. There I can't help but see that there's actually teaching the telecommunications on a lot of people's food and how far between areas and then it's good to cooperate with their neighbors in the east of Iceland. I believe that there would be a higher education proposal, as indicated in the proposal for Congress, where there is an abundance of smaller communities, and it also calls attention to the fact that both the Icelandic language was the president of Iceland, U.S.A., and was referring to an electronic language or it is very important for Iceland to have access to the electronic world. If it is true that there is now a slow - eared arrow in our local language and that it has not been reached. The language is very different from that of us, but it is also a very real language. Actually, I think it's important when we're talking about Icelandic in the world and in the middle of the world, and then we're going up to these companies, we're going to mention the inexpensive route. There is a tremendous value in the ignorant tongue, and that is a sin for the Norwegian language that would become a decomposition or for the victims of the modern technology and we are fighting for the right to live in. So it is very good to also mention another nation that two nations, then those of us who also speak languages that are very small. I'm not going to do this any further, but I'm looking forward to participating in the Western Council's committees. I'm sorry, but I can't get to Greenland now in June, but I look forward to sharing in the future activities of the Committee, which will be especially met at the end of August or early September.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u57	Dís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I was going to take a hearing or a discussion with the Western or French Council because since I started my job at a council, I've been sitting in the Western council until the last election, and at all times speaking in these important matters, and when the discussion began here, whether it was possible to look after the exemplary ones who had been Westerners, I couldn't put on and decide to run to my office and come and participate in this discussion. But I'd like to start by congratulating the New Iceland Department of the Western Council to congratulate them and wish them a wish for success in their work. I can assure you what. A senator says that this is both fun and very helpful. I agree with what's been said here that there's a lot of opportunities in increasing cooperation with the Western countries and then I'd like to say that it's often been said that, yes, we're a big brother as mentioned and in the light of the fact that we're most large. But it's also very important to remember in all this cooperation that we're on the same page. Although the other nations are not completely independent, they have a large and important cause for independence, and I think that is why this cooperation has been so successful, that we are all learning from one another, and all of us have something important to cooperate with. That's what they said back in the last few years. There's a lot of work to be done with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, and I'd like to mention the report of the former Supreme Court. Secretary of State made it work. On the other hand, there was a large report with many suggestions on cooperation with Skarphéðinsson, which was formerly the highest level of Össur. There was a lot of interesting points there and opportunities that I really hope to continue working in the administrative capacity in many places, since these were comments or tips on so much that could be done even more fully in increasing cooperation. There has also been a report on the Faeroe Islands, and she may need a little less attention because she came, she came out just about the same time we were starting a campaign. But there are opportunities there, too, and I'm so happy about it, going by the ex-fiancence. Secretary of state, and I think it's important. I think it's a little important that our management government is a bit like this, if I put it that way, addressed to looking also to these neighboring countries. But in terms of these excellent proposals, I just want to support them, send a resolution to the Western Council, and agree to this proposal is held at the Western Council's annual meeting last time, and I think that I'm sure that the right to recommend that the cooperation of the Education Ministers has arrived if it was a proposal for the Iceland League and because of that. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddóttir mentioned earlier at the University of Akureyri that I can quite say that it was what we were thinking. That idea comes the most important after I had been visiting Greenland, and after some meeting, we visited companies and reminded me that it was an issue that even went out. In a school that was, in effect, a high school, a university bridge, and some form of fishing was being taught, and our audience was a Danish teacher from a Danish university. I'm thinking yes. Why isn't the University of Akureyri cooperating here and with its oceanography me. But, of course, it is very widespread in Greenland that their association with Denmark is very strong and very strong, and part of this conclusion is just to promote further cooperation, and I discussed it with the University of Akureyri, who was very interested in promoting cooperation. But what may, of course, interferes with this and is outside, is the independence of a university in Iceland, so that we, as senators, do not come in and say, "Hey, you're supposed to do this, and this is part of our system, and that's what we've got from the Minister, when we've already discussed conclusions like this. But, in reality, there is an effort being made to establish this program in cooperation with a contract that exists between the Education Minister of these countries, and thus it might be possible to encourage or encourage some cooperation. Of course, it can also be imagined that the Ministers would simply put some money on one of the assigned projects and possibly lead something to the future, and that then they come to the conclusion that concerns our biggest issues, of course the environment, and you can say: If you read through the previous conclusions of the Western Council, the environment is a very large group. We've been in the process of plastic pollution, climate, the big picture, the impacts of climate change on the ocean soil, and all the suggestions can be listed, and I'd like to just point out to the current Iceland Department that over the years it's the kind of thing. That is a well - agreed conclusion at the annual meeting of the Governing Body. All departments are required to present it as a resolution in their weight so that it will pass through this process that we are doing here and before the next annual meeting. This has been called in for reports from the Commission. It has been very interesting to read from the Ministry on specific suggestions that we have. I'll say interestingly in that it will appear, as at times would like to be made by Congress decisions, regardless of whether a link between the Western Council or something else, that they are just forgotten and ministers do not always claim to follow any of these things. However, these reports also provide a wealth of interesting information on what is being done in certain language groups. I especially want to remember how interesting it was to read the National Environment Ministry's report on plastic pollution at sea and what a lot of work there and also in Greenland. It was just that. It was very interesting, and I'm sure that these reports often present ideas and opportunities. Senators are so designed to continue to develop some further conversation and cooperation on these lawsuits. To this end, I heard that members of the Parliament were just pointing out that these conclusions could also be addressed in the topic committees, which I understand, and that they could make our worldwide work and the ideas that will result in more extensive and further discussion, and that is of good concern. I realize, though, that the head of Iceland's Department has certainly only been through it in view of the fact that I think she'd like to work out this council resolution for the summer annual meeting so that we'd be completely confused. But I have no doubt that perhaps it will be possible to introduce this in the committees and call it to the members of Congress. But to say this, I'm especially glad that there's a debate over these terms, unfortunately, it is often such that the topic of the Western Council and, in fact, often other international activities, is too small and too light to be discussed here at a council hall, and I think it might be much more. And because of what. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was just wondering if this was a role model. Then I find it a good idea to consider that here more Iceland, departments, or international work is setting a good example for me to present a Senate resolution with interesting issues being being done, since it is quite right that in our international work we are often working and working very hard in large, well - agreed conclusions and may not be able to get much publicity here. Of course, we do. In these parts of the country, it is a responsibility to make sure that the Icelandic government is working in the spirit of its approved conclusions. So I think that this arrangement could be an example in many ways but, of course, just encouraging all of us who are sharing in the worldwide work, to be diligent in discussing it here, because it is often needed. But now there is a real need to talk about cooperation between democratic and peaceful states.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u58	Madam President. As just a member of the Western Institute of Iceland, I'd like to come and blend in with this discussion and very interesting to listen to this fine discussion that has taken place here today. I'm not going to extend this very much, but there is one part of these nations that hasn't been called here that we share and certainly are us. These nations are designed to have built themselves on the use of natural resources, mainly fishing the resource and what comes from the sea. But it is the part that has to do with the food security of these nations that I think it is very important when we discuss in the Western Council, since these nations share in common that they are highly dependent on the import of items, whether in food or in other raw products, whether they are oil or otherwise. So I just wanted to get it over here and mention it to us and we're going to Greenland next June 14, that this is the part we need to take up a little more because in view of the war in Ukraine and what's going on in the world today, there's always going to be talk about food security. It will always be greater, and people will begin to look closer, and these nations are as we know. We are not nations that we produce our own harvest. It's something we're only doing in Iceland, but it's extremely limited both in the Faeroe Islands and I don't think there's anything in Ireland, a very limited agriculture, such as it's done in Greenland. It is primarily about sheep and reindeer and, on the other hand, in the Faeroe Islands, then, a considerable quantity of milk production, but it is also abundant, where both Faeroe and Greenland are extremely dependent on transporting all the rough and nuclear - headed animals. Although we can't see that what has to do with the food for the human family is even more dependent, it was just this point that I wanted to bring into this discussion. We're often just good. We've been focusing on a lot of environmental and climate issues, looking and green solutions, and the like, and a very good council proposal, a proposal that's being discussed here. But this is a thing we can't slip by in our discussion because it's always gonna be bigger and more important to talk about, and there's really a common setting. The Icelanders, the Faeroe Islands, and the Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u59	Madam President. It's been very interesting and fun to observe the discussions here on the Western states, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland issues that each member of the council here has brought in interesting suggestions for this cooperation, each with his nose as much as we like. But everything very good and important. And it's kind of interesting that there are many of us. So we have an opinion. I can honestly say that we've been off the clock a little bit in international cooperation to look far beyond our schedule, and so these neighbors and friends in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland have not always been on our radar, and then I've listened to speeches. People here who go and get up and express their approval and the belief that this is an important partnership, and as I say, each man comes to show his nose and everything is true and true. So maybe it's just some feeling that you've had since years ago, and this is just about to change that we've come to appreciate this better and that it's totally the good because I don't believe it all and we've been involved in the discussion here that we've become an independent nation in this context and in the extraordinary position in which we are concerned, to be the big nation, but of course we have much to give. The fact is, too, that we have truly much to learn from these nations. There, the existence of the work of the Western Council is of utmost importance. I worked for years as a journalist in the Morning newspaper, and then I enjoyed traveling to both countries with photographers and writing about everyday life and nature, and after stopping there I enjoyed the strength of the Western Council to go back on my own with photographers and travel through both countries, interviewing, meeting the standards, past and the expectations and dreams people had for the future, and this was invaluable and Vestrothic advice. The Iceland Department deserves to thank me for giving me this opportunity. I learned a lot from this. What surprised me then, or what I noticed was how both nations did better than we did, and it was keeping certain old traditions of various ways, in other words, not making so much use of the future that we wiped out the past. I feel like since Iceland's recovery has been made in that important approach, maybe. thanks to the tourism business, tourists are keen to look at old ways in the world. At any rate, there has been a big change, and somehow we have reached my range in the tail of these friends and cousins in this regard. It is possible to welcome the future in as much as possible, but keep certain items from old traditions close to them in the past in terms of the two points here on the subject and I know that there will be rapid progress and I trust that the council will also grant the members of the council to hold on to the actual fact that it has been shown here in the case of those members of Congress who have experience with this cooperation or have sometimes wanted to burn when ministers don't consider themselves other material that they are and I would really want to be bound by some conclusion that come from these international committees. In this case, it might be imagined that this particular international committee of the Western Council is not at the top of the list either. But it is very important for us to be members of the council, so to speak, keep our advisers in check. The first proposal to increase the cooperation of environment and climate in itself is not much to add. This is just an infinite deal of importance that we keep on the watch in these matters and secure the interests of the world in which we live. Let us all agree with these two nations, who are truly in the same situation of the road and then in the other: This is not a personal matter that has bound our part of the world, as we know. This is the cradle of these cases. Here we're gonna be able to fix things. Here, too, we'll feel it first if it goes bad, so it's extremely important that there's a community there and maybe. will be our largest proportion in cooperation to be the bridge from this, to be the largest nation there, to be the bridge from this cooperation, these little three nations who truly know what they are aware and are the experts who are at the level of counseling expert knowledge in this field in a society of countries where our next step is further determined so that our responsibility is considerably high in this cooperation, and I know that we will do everything to live up to it. Of course, as far as the college community is concerned, we now have two years of experience, acrostics of the season, leaping a giant leap into the future in these matters, and hopefully we will be able to make good use of it. I may well have wanted to mention the language in which these three nations possess it. One thing these three nations have in common. In a word, there is a knowledge of a specific language. It is the dance that is the nature of the case because of Greenland, and especially the Faeroes, such as speaking and learning, but I think it would be interesting to consider the possibility that somehow we made this fine language higher. In this matter, I with all due respect for the international language of English, I think we'd be stronger if we had this language, a common language, and it also helps our English that we don't jump into the language that most people speak so easily. Since it is also a language in a peripheral field, it was an idea that I just wanted to throw into the discussion here, trusting that the committee would look at it. At least I know that one or the other. A senator who is now chairman of the National Council of Iceland, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir who knows the work of the Western Council also well with some people about it before, and hopefully we'll find some solution. But I'm not going to have this any further, here it could hardly. I wanted to, because I'm running out of time, but I'm just going to wish the Commission a well-being and give them a chance to get to know them as new as members of the Committee, these two countries and nations, and few are the things that show us just as strongly that we are friends, and it's important to be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u60	Yes, Madam President, this is an interesting subject and I come here carrying paper to show that, despite all of it, we've been caring for these neighbors and friends and our cousins more and we've been dealing with them for quite a long time, and there's every reason to praise and thank and thank former minister of state, Guðlaugur has opened Þór Þórðarson and his good staff for two reports that have been won in the past few years, first Greenland, a report and notice these banks. This is an extract, an enormous amount of literature, 199 suggestions published at the beginning of 2021, followed by a report on the Faeroe Islands and Iceland, and their dealings with countries in 2021 on which we can build, and we are to build an enormously high level of work. But I feel that it is a bit similar in the relationship of this nation, that it can be useful, and that it can have economic benefits for people and communities. Above all, it is only important in itself. You see, this communication is a bit important in itself, just because we're who we are, where we are, how we are, and these amazing things that connect us. And when I think of these three nations, I think of the poet Jón and his song. The village that came out, I believe, in 1976, well described by these nations. I'm just going to let the president read a little poem from the trash: remember the long milked bets of famous pops, moons frozen, butt, heavy in a shelter and a well - watered house, and there the simple song of the boats, in trust, and changed the canvas sheep in the beach and cold feet and evenings, long as the eternity itself, and then was eagerly waiting for good and nine to eat. Do you remember one night under debate? You lived with your foster home. You look up with fins on the frozen hills to the sky, for there's a small boat before the tip of the Avengers, but it didn't come, and you remember the joy of the middle of the night being woken up that the sooner a job was laid and the hardness of the cheek was taken away from the soft and warm hand behind the fetus. When she came and kissed him, his hands were laid around his neck, and there was still pain in the sea at sea. The next morning there was a blue catfish in the provinces, building stone and sun Sindri in Silfrira, scales, and happiness of the poor man. This seems to me to say something about the history of these three nations, that we share it in common that through the centuries we have lived at least. As much as we can do for nature and country, but since with technology with cohesion, we have gradually been able to reverse these indiscriminate elements as we do now, perhaps in the last 100 years, all these nations have somehow benefited from and survive nature, and there can be said of fishing that is now safe but insecure. There are travel services. It was suddenly possible to sell it to the people to come and see nature, to explore the land, to get to know the people, so I don't talk about these amazing possibilities of geology in Greenland, especially, and learning, where I still hope they have the good fortune to play. But all of this is a testimony to how this can be turned on, and these nations have it primarily in common, and here are several times in the preceding talks what we can do and how we can teach these nations, and I am not going to belittle it. But let us remember, too, that we can learn so much from those nations. You see, they can teach us things because we may have, on a greater scale, than they somehow made progress toward the present and in some way may be so lost that you see and feel the sense that you see and are so rich in these nations, so I think the life of these three countries is too far too similar to that. It would be a natural tragedy if they did not take advantage of it together to highlight the issues that must be stressed today and then that I am primarily aware of the fact that these are small peace - loving democracies that all depend on the world's countries in a harsh way, successful in nature, and taking good care of this new resource, which all the world's superpowers now see as northern lands. There we can be that voice that at times is missing when economic interests and military interests become great. There we can be the voice of reason and the thought of it. So besides that, we can do amazing numbers of work, combined in areas where interests just literally go together, and closer to one another, we can name the fish. Of course, these nations are all great fishing nations in their own way. But this is how it's been over the years. Maybe there's usually a trail like this, and we have a good cooperation with the Faeroeses and the Greenlandians. There are companies in both of these countries. There's some high-end green-estate agents working here on the grounds of their own contracts. That's all we're supposed to do, strengthen and strengthen. Of course, traveling service can also become a task for which the nations can work together. I don't think it would be wrong for these three nations somehow to work. What do you call a date job to find out how you can build up money even more sustainable and rational tourism based not on mass-based tycoons, where you share as many people at some time while the countries are in fashion and then fall and think about longer futures and accept that it may be better than to swallow all bits at once? There are, of course, everyday matters that are of great importance, and I'm afraid to get away because of what's happened. Friðbertsson But we have only an amazing combination of tasks in the field of flight, oversight, and air traffic in this area, that all these countries are in the middle of the ocean, and those airlines are natural from Europe to America, this is hardly the case with looking down at one of the three countries. So I think we have a lot of opportunities, but I'm going to end what I started to do, whether it's in climate or education. As is said of a synonym, I encourage the committee to review thoroughly the careful reports published some years ago on Greenland and on the Faeroe Islands. There is an extraordinary guide for successful cooperation based on respect but also on the common interests of these countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u61	Mr. President. In 2021, I had the opportunity to sit in the Western Council for a brief term each of two, 16, 2017, and a very interesting job and fun. As shown in the case of what? Today's Congress is what's really related to us, but still we're not fulfilling this interaction, crazy in the way we should do in general and should be much more active, and maybe especially with Greenland and these conclusions presented here and we're going to try to agree here at the council for the summer that these are enormous issues that are very strong to us in many ways as well as these countries, and this is very important, that we go to this work to process these ideas of green change. This is what we are putting on a tremendous deal here in Iceland, and in fact, all are stressing these matters, and especially now after Ukraine, the war began. Now this is the big deal. It's a green transition. Is green energy providing energy security for the countries? Ask and renewable energy, and we may have learned something from the Faeroes. The force of wind has been very important to the conveyors. In recent years, wind mills were being set up and just doing well. I've told them, I can't quite remember. I couldn't get back up to the numbers, but I now recall that this may be even 30, 40% of the energy the movers are using, which is only a few years ago, only the oil was energy source, so it's probably the most effective and it's just exciting to watch it there in Greenland and in the Faeroe Islands, of course, is to watch only general employment and home in that way. But this is very exciting, and I think we could possibly learn something, give them what kind of men are doing in the Faeroe Islands. In Greenland, the water supply has been making use of the hydropower. Icelandic companies have come to that even. and that may have been considered a lecture here on the Arctic Circle. There have been considerable introductions to this in the last water - power conferences and options associated with Greenland because it would be most desirable to become such a general use of the green energy in Greenland, both for homes and employment, and even to discuss capitals between Iceland and Greenland in order to connect countries and to use energy from Greenland. Sustainable fishing is the natural work of these countries, the fishing industry, and it has taken an enormous step in all these countries regarding sustainable fishing. Of course, it can and will continue to develop, but we have been experiencing substantial results, such as fuel consumption, use of oil, and such factors in recent years. Green transport, one of these factors, is mentioned in the conclusion. In Iceland we have achieved considerable success and are on the move, but it is more difficult than natural transportation. There are cases in Greenland. It's almost all done by flying between villages and towns where there's no roads between the towns in Greenland, so there's helicopters and airplanes that keep it up and powerless to come, so hopefully we'll see as in Iceland development in it as well as in the Faeroe Islands, you see, by some new technology, there could be potential. There is also the fact that the islands and other such flight services have become our main industry, and it has been growing both in Greenland and in the Faeroe Islands, although not the giant leaps that have been on the land, but its nature may be quite different in Iceland if we take Iceland and Greenland. They might like it in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands where people fly to Iceland and the Faeroe Islands and take rental cars and drive around. But as I came in, there is no way to drive in Greenland, so it's such a different kind of touristism, but we know here at home that only a different nature but, of course, with such other activities in our tourism or very much, we can probably learn from each other that turns to it. There was nothing else, it should also be discussed with the other conclusion, which is actually about telecommunications and colleges. This would be followed a great deal like the University of Akureyri, in cooperation with the University of Nuuk, and in an excellent conversation, as well as when we were working, and in the north-generation policy that was adopted here during our last term. Then, in the introductions of this possibility, and in a report on the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland in new northern countries, this very important role is being introduced. Like what? paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardd came in earlier. At that time, the University of Akureyri has been specialized in this for decades and has emphasized this in its history, in school or in its late 35 years and in its last 25th, at least 35 years. On the other hand. At that time, there has been tremendous emphasis on telecommunications, and today 75% of the University of Akureyri are studying far away. Twenty-five percent of students, instead of 600 people, and then 1,800 people, 18900 people on their telecommunications, have been very interested in trying to link this with the University of Nuuk, and, of course, those who appear in the Western controversation of the three Western countries to increase cooperation of university education by means of assistance, telecommunications, and technology development, and hopefully technological development. We know it after the code. Perhaps there are changes in ideologies and thinking about these things, such as telecommunications and telecommunications, and they can work more closely, even though they are much more efficient in using the latest technology. I'm hoping we won't stop here in Iceland even though it's years and better when you're free of the code that we're going to continue using this technology and what it's creating. Improved telecommunication is a thing that I've been interested in, focused much on in the Arctic policy, and we know the tremendous importance here in Iceland with the improved telecommunication and development of cell phone systems and fiber optics and everything that's been happening, perhaps the key role in changing Iceland in the past ten years after he came along in the way that we know today and the possibilities he creates for the distance. Greenland is in such a way that you may not be able to connect and echo, but other technologies may have to be used there. This, however, is what perhaps my emphasis was about the guide - to - be - service history. Let's do this guide, which is extremely important to get here in the western part of Iceland, to strengthen the eastern parts, but to get us Greenland and, in fact, to change transport to Greenland, and to make much better. If the system should be solved, it would come to the Western Western Council during the last term, took on that job, and tried to keep it up. But it's just yes, and then it came out of nowhere. paritaprevir The Logi Einar Einarsson rights of the airport, that from Iceland is controlled a region that is 50 and twice the size of Iceland, a vast area that covers Greenland, developed 90. And hundreds of feet in, if I remember right, and over the Faeroe Islands, and almost there are intended to say in that area, and then in the North Pole, and there have been a lot of cooperation there, and Iceland has helped with the flying control of Sugn at the Greenland, their international airport, and hopefully develop it in a positive way and have been developed in a practical way to pursue that role. But at the end of the report, it was also published last year on the communications of Iceland and the Faeroe Islands and a proposal for the future. In recent years, this field has been filled with material. This last terms will be useful in continuing work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u62	A respectable president. I come up here mostly to make an answer to my comments before what I said. Árnadóttir This fine arrangement, which is in discussion of the conclusions of the Westnoric Council here at the General Council, provides conclusions of the Western American Council or of the Parliament taken here by the General Assembly, and that is best understood by me in general, perhaps because it is not replaced by a special discussion of the conclusions that are being carried out on other international council members, such as In my case the European Parliament comes with the Member States, sometimes even a tip or a recommendation directed to the European Parliament. We've been given some comments, such as. from a committee and a special representative of the European Council on freedom of the press, and it has not been able to access the indications in it, as well as to other matters, and I would like to quote what I understood from my words. paritaprevir In her speech, Bill's Haraldsdóttir is severely thanking her for taking this up in her speech, that we are often working on high - scale conclusions in this worldwide work, as if somehow there would be little or nothing wrong at the time of her return. And it may not be that much work has been done that way. I can, for example. Give a personal example of a report I recommended in the Council of Europe for the fight against sexual harassment in Congress. There is a wide range of recommendations to the Member States for the National Assembly of Member States, but let us bear in mind that this is not necessarily directed to the government but, rather, to the council itself. This is once a council, the Council of Europe, and we are being directed, for example. to set up specific processes in order to address sexual harassment within Congress, e.g. with the possibility of bringing anonymous complaint of harassment and, for example, an anonymous complaint of harassment. to recommend specific data collections not completely completed, e.g. In view of the great work the General has done, I would have found it very helpful to have recorded here and discussed it on the scene of the council. We're supposed to say in this field about this subject. But from then on, I feel that it should be a general rule, if not just to the committee I sit in but to all the international committees that they should take more space, be more important at the council than to have only one day with international committees reporting, and now it is divided into two or three days. Even which is fine for themselves, these are just annual reports that all of them equal to the Western island and that have been, or at least During the time that I have been here at a council and am involved in this work, it is confined to those members of the council that are in those committees, sometimes not even right. So the senator who gives the report, and then the discussion, it's just finished, so it doesn't need a little more than that. What does such a more effective setting say to discuss this area, which may encourage increased participation in the discussion and also the field that will lead to some formal procedure in the council, that it is, for example, the case. I'd like to have a foreign or administrative committee or a management committee take up recommendations that come from reports, the capitalization of the Council of Europe, or other international council members to which we are involved. Of course, it would also be wonderful to see how large and extensive programs that concern us directly, have recommendations, or conclusions from these councils too. Perhaps this is the form of a report. It's something I find to look at, and I'm glad to hear that there's some kind of harmony about this here because, just like a boy. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Árnadóttir'sdot then rightly entered upon them. There is a greater and deeper discussion on foreign affairs here at the council, and I believe that there is a deeper and more meaningful discussion of the global work taking place on the council. It would be a fall to deepen that discussion, but it would also bring more attention to the work the senators are doing outside the cliffs, which often have an outside influence on landstones and proselytizing. It may not be enough for a person to understand sufficiently how important this work can be. Many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u63	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in the merit tax law, No. 50/1988, and the number limit of an electric vehicle is in the case. The objective of the bill is a few, and the main element of it is found in chapter 3 of the report. First of all, there is a change to 8 mg. 42rd. The law specifically shows that it is permitted to reimburse valuable tax from work to make changes in vehicles used only in behalf of rescue teams and that it involves preparing them for lifesaving purposes. The change is intended to be the law for completing and to reflect the tax work that has been carried out for many years. So this is a sort of appeal. Then there are two adjustments to provisional XXIV regulations in the law. On one hand, it is suggested that the number of automobiles with power limits be increased from 15,000 cars to 20,000 automobiles. However, it is suggested that the source's new budget be set up from January 1, 2023. From that time on, the value tax for import or tax-related sales, including reselling, on electric vehicles and automobiles, will be permitted to drop at a maximum of 1,300,000 dollars. Instead of 1,560,000 k. which is in force today. This means that it must be counted among the reserves, the sum was worth a maximum of 5,500,000 dollars. Instead of 6,500,000. currently in effect. The provision for temporary XXIV warrants the stress of a cost tax to cancel a value tax or to include the exception of the sum of money at the desired peak of import or tax-related sales, including reselling, on new or used electrical, hydrogen, or related automobiles, according to the specific requirements. The source has a definite time, but it may fall earlier. However, the total of 15,000 automobiles that have been used by this type of music have been listed in a driver's file. In June 2012, the law was laid down, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of the motorized automobiles to traditional gas and diesel - powered vehicles, with the aim of promoting and speeding up transport energy exchanges. It is intended to be temporary support until the basis is established for the sustainable speed of energy exchange. The original purpose was to apply only in 2013, but it has been extended since then, for about one year at a time and later for more years, and with the number limit, as stated earlier, as well as the maximum amount of money in favour of each car has changed. The government has set an ambitious goal for Iceland to achieve a non-carbon share of carbon and total energy exchanges no later than 2040 and will then be independent of fossil fuels first. The energy exchange of the automobile fleet is successful, and Iceland is among the world's top countries in the electricalization of the fleet. Cleanup cars, i.e. Power and hydrogen cars, and the vehicle vehicle were near the end of March 11,9% of the total number of registered automobiles. The share of these cars in new registrations increased from 22% in 2019 to 58% in 2021. Looking back to the first three months of this year, it is now seen that the ratio is 68% with the share of a power vehicle of 42% and a linking vehicle 26%. It is likely that the number limit of a link vehicle will be reached in the following months. At this point in the energy exchange, it is important that we stop to subsidize the purchase price of a vehicle vehicle when mass limit is achieved but continue to support the level of taxation in the form of clean energy cars, including electric vehicles, and thus bring Iceland closer to its objectives in climate. Looking at cleaner automobiles makes it more likely that the individual ratio of electric and related automobiles will change in favour of electrical vehicles, while studies show that electrical vehicles are far more likely to be localised for a vehicle vehicle than for fossil fuels. At that time, during the past year, the number of loading stations for the public has increased significantly and are now approaching 400 all over the country. So the network of loading stations has become, let's say, pretty tightly and slowly at regular intervals to load. Still, work is still being done to seal up the network of loading stations. In addition, the development of the design and production of an electric vehicle is rapid and has become available to long-term vehicles and can therefore be the preferred option for the inhabitants of the country. Their consumption and choice have greatly increased, and prices, production costs, gone down. Thus, the competitiveness of electric cars on fossil fuels has been greatly increased, reflecting the greater public interest in them, as statistics for the number of electric vehicles carried by the proportion of newly registered automobiles. Given the current development of the newly registered electric vehicle, some 15,000 automobiles will soon be reached, as I once did. To support the government's target of energy exchange in the human cars and to maintain the success of the last loss in the proliferation of newly registered electric vehicles, it is important to keep supporting this for some time by increasing this mass limit of size by 5,000, from 15,000 cars to 20,000 cars. There is then another debate how long you should continue with these great coincidences, but as I've come in here, this will be the most desirable option. We've got a complete discount on these cars today. Since then, we have this considerable appeal to the cost tax and when we add that these vehicles are not offering anything to finance the road system by participating, for example. In charge of the price of fuel, this is not only an indiscriminate device but also a business. As foretold, this will need to be treated, and we can assume that we will see changes as soon as the next few years have come. In addition to this change from 15,000 cars to 20,000 i.e. the limit of mass, the number of automobiles that can enjoy this injury, is suggested for a new budget to go into effect from January 1, 2023. As mentioned earlier, on electricity and hydrogen vehicles, worth taxation due to transport or tax-related sales, including reselling, can be dropped at a maximum of 1,300,000 U.S. Instead of 1,560,000 k. currently in effect. That means, as I've told you before, that the other half will be 5.5 million. K. instead of 6.5 million. K. as it is today. The decision of a new sum of money is made that 74% of the cases in 2021 fully fell into the value tax for importing electrical vehicles less than 1,320,000 dollars. A large proportion of automobiles, therefore, are expected to continue to lose the valuable tax. It should be noted that new financial boundaries do not stipulate the warrant according to local requirements. Accordingly, the warrant is dated in the year 2022 or until 15,000 of the automobile target will be reached, likely in the latter part of this year. This bill holds the current budget until the end of the year, although plans are expected to reach 15,000 cars earlier. Finally, a change in regulations for temporary XXIV law will be proposed in terms of the current taxpayer's taxpayer to waive a certain amount from taxpayer to re-selling on eco-friendly cars. The change makes it clear that retailing does not require a vehicle to be three years old or younger on the day of import or on the day when it was first recorded. This means that this release will no longer be confined to the number of automobile restrictions recommended by the regulations but its value and by 31 December 2023. Marked change, including It's useful to rent cars for retailing on eco-friendly cars. The assessment of the impact of the bill is that change in legal requirements allowing reimbursement of the value tax of employment in preparing a rescue vehicle does not affect the government's income from a valuable tax in which the current implementation is expected to be unchanged. The increase from the value tax for 5,000 new electric vehicles, i.e. In addition to the 15,000 that is available in the current law, the estimated loss of income for the state's funds between 2022 and 2023. At the same peak per car, the cost of income is estimated to be 5.7 billion. If the maximum value of a dropped tax per car is dropped from 1,560K. of 1,300,000. You can expect the loss of income to be 200 million. K. What I'm saying is that it reduces the loss of income by 200 million. At a rate, it meets the loss of income from 15,000 to 20,000 automobiles. Thus, it can be expected, in general, that this will not be 5.7 but 5.5 billion in income loss because one suggestion will outweigh the other. It is estimated that the loss of income will be 2.4 billion this year and 3.1 billion next year. It depends only on how it plays out, but this is the plan. Executive access to valuable tax from re-selling eco-friendly automobiles valid from the start of 2021, which is made clearer in this bill, will lead to loss of income for the state that is expected to reach up to 100 million. K. This year and up to 150 million. K. in 223 C.E. However, no direct financial impact is to be expected for the local community on this matter. I just want to get back to the point that we've been doing this for a decade very much damage to the clean energy trucks. What a joy it is to be very effective! I'm going to argue that it's a success that would not have been achieved without the greatest will. There's a lot of appeal to cutting down the merchandise, it's just a huge indiscriminate. There is also a great appeal to these vast reimbursements, though they have a roof on the value tax for import. That's all there is to say. When the two are combined, this is very much and directly affects the price of these vehicles. Why is this important? Yes, it is because the cost of making these cars has been higher than in gasoline or diesel trucks, and to build this gap, we have just dropped off the public fees to make these cars more attractive. But this has resulted in a very high cost of sacrifice on the income side of the State, which I feel has been of little concern in general. However, the financial program is now under way and is for release at the council. It is reviewed in a very detailed box how the average income of the state for each imported car has been falling and how the costs for automobiles have been falling very quickly. That's a lot of money. We're talking about if there was to be no more than the duration of a financial strategy, then the loss of income could be up to 0.8% of gross domestic product. This is a very large amount of money, so we can say today that it is just up to 30 billion each year. That is why we have proclaimed that we must now begin to consider renewing these commercial institutions of the State. I'd like to mention this because in this bill, we're a little bit going the other way, so we're just trying to maintain an indiscretion. I think it's still right to do that. We're extending this coincidence. I notice that in today's media, advocates continue to extend the appeal to interviews. It's understandable that humans want to maintain the will, but there's some objections, which are just a total pursuit of the road system. I'm thinking that in the long run, we should look at the road system more closely and rely on farms that are rooted in the import of the car. If this were done, it might be possible to trace the long history of these cases, what the pay system has been for the import of cars. In the beginning, there is no doubt that the system was built on currency theft. They simply needed permission to spend money on automobiles. It was such a problem in currency exchange. It was understandable that the quality would have to be controlled, but then it ran to the end, and we took a different kind of reciprocation system that was designed for us, and after that system was decomposed, we were considering emissions, and that is, we have a place in the system we have today. The release of the car is seen to the extent of its release. It affects the cost of goods, but this also appears elsewhere in business teams. Of course, it is in fuel costs and in the carbon charge, and it is also part of the car's price. The release of the car is seen to the extent of its release. Now, my opinion is that there is too much difference between the cost of an electrical vehicle, which is very low, and other vehicles that have either fuel or diesel motor and patterns, so it is not just a down payment of the state's income but, in reality, a ongoing problem in finance, maintenance, and newinvestment of transport. That's why I say, even though you understand very well the indications of those who want to maintain this fine result in the induction of electric or hydrogen cars, cleaner cars, you have to answer the question about financing. We simply cannot allow 2,530 billion holes to be formed without an answer to what to take over. This is partly answered in a financial program in which we proclaim a change of currency system. And I can see that, as it has been announced, we will take certain steps next year. However, the extent to which we should walk in this regard remains unconcerned. There would be a few things that I think are important to keep at the same time because we're expanding this quota that goes up to 20,000 cars in the event of the electric cars. We've recently had the worthy tax aquifers run their course for the satellite vehicles, i.e. The reimbursement of the cost tax, so this is such a normal step in relation to the motor vehicle and the next steps, in effect, have to demand the normal expenditure of clean energy cars for the use of the road system. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee, followed by the 2nd Environment. at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u64	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. But I have a few questions about this bill and maybe also about the rest and the future of these topics that, first of all, I just wanted to ask an explanation from the highest level. Minister on why this case is so late, but it's a long time after May 15. But it seems to me that the record of the council here, in view of the fact that there might be a very high rate of years at least any of these changes. So if it's the highest. A minister could explain just a little bit more, then, by my own opinion, it's fine that this reimbursement on link trucks is about to run its course. They are often burned to the point that they pollute even as much as a small car because they are merely in their nature, not that good eco-friendly travel. On the other hand, I pondered this tremendous emphasis on new electric cars that are good in themselves but that are only suitable for a certain group of people who can afford to buy a new electric car, which is an expensive automobile, let's say. In spite of the fact that these remunerations, while as far as I'm next I'm concerned, measles do not enjoy a similar indiscriminate approach, which is considerably lower, income-tendents, let's say, more than upper and middle class, but more than electric cars. And I wonder if it's not to be considered that if the tvs, which is not that good for eco-friendly drivers, it's gone out if it wasn't right to come at least. Methane trucks in the back. And then.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u65	An answer to the highest. Financial and economic minister, Bjarni Benediktsson. A respectable president. Yes, the question is, Why is it late? I would've wanted to bring it back sooner. This may be the best explanation that there has been an enormous and rapid increase in the purchase of electric automobiles, as I traced it into history, and it has been in excess of what we expected, so it is. Maybe we got caught up in the idea that it was coming fast and faster than we had previously anticipated that 15,000 cars, the whole dinner would be fully new to us on record, the automobiles that they were going for a while, is not quite sure I understood the inquiry. However, it is being referred to here that there is no discount due to the import of a metal car or that is being referred to when yes, or I thought it was being referred to that there has been a considerable number of evidence that there has been a significant linking of metal fuel into already on the streets and whether it is to be beneficial in some way. But I need to look at it if it's so that other people besides hydrogen and electric cars, which, as it were, can be seen as real clean energy cars, do not have the discount. I don't know how to explain it, and I'm just saying it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u66	Wants to play. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir? A respectable president. The explanation may be that it's a little bit less than a clean energy truck. The definition of clean energy trucks is that they run only for this eco-friendly fuel. Most metal trucks are made to walk both in gasoline and on diesel. However, it is beyond that, e.g. Corporate trucks seem to have driven a lot longer distance on the methane than the complex car's links in general, the electricity drive, and so e.g. if you have one of these cars, you can drive the next all the way to Akureyri before I have to drive in gasoline because there is simply no stopping to fill the record along the way. However, these are automobiles produced, e.g. as in Germany, on a large scale, estimating and e.g. in reselling but also in the import of a considerably less cheap vehicle than the electric cars. That's why I mention it, but I don't want to finish all my answer to it. I guess I just press, too, when he spoke of an eco-friendly vehicle, not just a clean device in this bill, but I couldn't find a proper definition of it. I'd also like to talk about these numbers that may be heard in themselves, but I wondered if it was also possible to think of the number limits on the cars of these levels, that we don't necessarily need to be, and we shouldn't be increasing the number of cars in traffic, and we must go to see how many of the cars that are available, and considering if he has a right to reimburse the person if he is buying his third car, fourth cars, an electrical vehicle, a home on it will get a huge discount for that if he has three trucks in the jam. I'm just wondering because I don't necessarily think it's the most eco-friendly approach to this sort of thing. Don't need to go into some holistic policy-making policies, considering how we get all these gas cars off the country from use, or possibly about to go to where people want to change their fuel cars, at least. ... inMultimobiles? V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers, Bjarna ben.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u67	Then the answer to the second one will be the highest. Secretary of the economy, Bjarni Benediktsson. Yes, a respectable president, it may explain itself, look at this estimate of the automobiles that they are not pure energy cars, and that they are such more like a link of tvint nature, and now we have had the time run out for it than English and methane car that has this much greener, it would likely have had a very low output and are benefiting from the import of the product tax. But I've been thinking about whether we shouldn't record minimum product fees for every car, and in the future, I see this, as if I traced it a little earlier, so I'd be so much less inclined to try to buy cars and always get a merit tax on the price and some tax on the price. But obviously we need to change the system to the core because of today or entirely based on the emissions, as much as there is more emissions, the higher the cost. If we imagine a world where everything is pure energy cars, that system is ruined, and then we must move on to some kind of fixed tax, the worth tax, and then we'll rely more on, in effect, annual currency markets that will be like automobile costs and then use, and then, gradually, this will become less important. We would simply be taxing special emissions, but we would have moved to a new system. I've been surprised. I've been studying these matters, how few real examples are there from anywhere else, even though there are such clues as, or such extraordinary exports, in the same unique cities that you can look at. I was going to say the next time that we're gonna be able to make these ratios fast if we get the rentals with us, and then I think it's perfectly clear that we're going to be able to keep a lot of momentum in the introduction to eco-efficient cars or cleaner cars, and that's where this charge is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for his history. I'd like to mention that we're discussing the three kinds of activity in this bill, first of all, a deduction of the cost tax due to changes in cars, Björn rescue teams, cars, and then these two cases, one called cleaning cars, increase by 5,000 and then from reselling on the used pure energy cars. I'd like to support scene No. 1 that the P.R. gets a discount, but I'm not at this point ready to support the other thing. I've been wondering who I'm gonna be good at this, that I'm getting better at this. I think it's the best. A minister may well speak back and forth in the matter, either talking about doing this and spending on this 5.5 billion, but at the same time these cars are spoken of as not paying back, and others are paying back what is missing or a government fund that will be used for something else. So me. I find it unusual at this point to spend 5.5 billion on this fuel tax that is supposed to be on the road, there's nothing there, they're polluting as much as these cars running on nails out and south, so it's causing me. I'm kind of pissed off about this, that it's being mixed up. Why could it not be divided into a public - interest organization, then the other, and then question financial programs? It would have been a hurry to close this financial program on finals, not from the Ministry. Is this in, or can we expect billions of changes in the Ministry of Last Records?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u69	That's the answer to an enemy at the highest. Secretary of the economy, Bjarni Benediktsson. A respectable president. I don't think it would be a good thing not to raise to 20,000 cars right now for the electric cars. If only we listen to reports received, there were doubts as well as doubts that we should speed up this approach to the vehicle. But no one has claimed that it would be good to reduce the costs for the electric cars, and in this bill, we are discussing the merit tax. We're just lowering the amount of money, but we're increasing the number of power cars. I think it's the right course yet for a while, and as I traced it in the history of today's newspapers, you can see the view that you want to keep it as well for another three years to 2025, even then the cost of manufacturing will finally be very low that you don't need this much attraction. But I think it would be too much for me to say just as far as it is and we don't have to make sure this huge down payment is worth just as much of all the most expensive cars. We're about to get more involved in taking annual fees, such as automobile expenses. I can't rule out that we're stepping something harder on the ground than, for example. The basis for financial programmes assumes, and in the context of this plan, we can recall that the financial programme expected 8 billion revenues from next year's driving and fuel, while in the financial program I was talking about policy, the ticket, the financial policy allows for an 8 billion financial supplement, this 4 billion has already been dropped, including: Because we have been growing faster than expected, and we are thus evaluating how we should go down the pace of the next year's implementation in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u70	OhEinarsson no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister for this answer, he says it would be impossible to stop at 15,000 and the figure is 20,000. I can't figure out why that number could be more convenient than 15,000, she couldn't, she'd just be 25,000 or something else, so I don't see that that that figure is necessarily refreshing to truth, the number we're supposed to aim at. I spoke of, yes, that car costs need to be raised, but at what rate are car costs rising? There will be an increase in automobile costs for everyone, including those who could not afford to buy an electric car and if you look at where there is an assessment of equality. No detailed analysis has been performed, the equality effect of the bill. However, the possibility that this suggestion may have a different effect on men and women regarding changes in the number limit. Men buy expensive cars. Women wisely buy less cars than has been analysed as investors in such cars? Is it the least of those allowed to share in the community, or is it those who have a lot of money and money? So I'm not sure this will do any better if we're going to be looking at some point of equality in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u71	The answer to the second one is the highest. Financial and economic ministers. Bjarni Benediktsson. Yeah, just about that last point. I think it's always good to improve the share of the truck fleet, even though this may still be a pretty expensive vehicle, they go back to reselling. That is so. With the same reasoning, it would be most desirable to get the rentals into these truck fleets because they all go into reselling, and thus to reduce the price of reselling, and thus there are options, much more people than they would be. But when it comes to the automobile charge, it's a combination price for those who release. It is a minimum cost, and then for gasoline and diesel cars, there is an additional charge at the car tax, which takes into account the amount of emissions. This could be changed. We might object to the general increase in automobiles. Then we could reduce emissions to the index, which would mean that we were particularly reaching out to increase the taxation of an electric vehicle that is too little to contribute to today's roads, so that is one way in the next steps. Would we remember taking some sort of mileage? It may be a question of exactly how we would transfer the currency and whether it would be read on the basis of examination or if there could be a digital communication plan for the anticipated use of the year, etc. It's all just technical exports. But the main point is that by doing so, we really go to some kind of cost of fuel, which is reasonable and normal to be paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u72	Mr. President. I don't like this bill quickly. I think both of these are to give discounts for cars used in behalf of rescue teams. I think it's a very good thing, and I think that there's still a reason for us to carry on with such passive action as the other branches of the bill, and then it's the car fees and how we finance the maintenance and construction of the road system. That makes me feel like a second discussion. I think this is what we're talking about here, being a very important part of transport energy exchange. But, of course, what matters in general is that the green transition will be a righteous one, when it comes to the change of exchange, and there are other factors to be looked forward to because a righteous shift in the direction of a noncarbonization future is one of the most urgent areas of society and economic affairs of the same time. As a green transition, we need to ensure that action in the fight against climate change will not result in an increasing inequities in society, this and so we need to consider when we either fall down payment or place on others that they are down to counteract human climate change and work against social inequities as well. It has to be harmonized with all the measures involved in ensuring man - made activities and the values and nations of the world have united, that in 2021 it is characterised by global climate action, but the subject then fell into the shadow of a pandemic crown and its effects, while the long - awaited success is being achieved by the intervention of a pandemic is a global catastrophe, unfortunately not a retreat, and it is necessary to set forward ambitious goals and plans to show Iceland's willingness to take on climate responsibility and never compromise the responsibility of this major issue. The Icelandic government must show ambitious implementation of its non-carbon plans in the year 2040. In order to meet the commitment of the Paris Convention, the EU and Norway targets 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and to meet the joint Helsingfor declaration of the President and Environmental Ministers of the North countries of the North Americas intended to lead the fight against climate change. I'll mention this here, Madam President, because in all our steps, we need to remind ourselves of the threat that is because we don't do anything to counteract the climate threat and this bill is in my opinion of a step in the green. Even if it is little, however, it does matter. A report published by the United Nations Interim Committee shows how the motion pictures that contribute to 1.5° or 2°are requiring great investments. The status of OECD for 2° global warming is the only platform that takes into account transport and other infrastructure investments, as well as energy generation investments and energy efficiency. It is estimated that annual annual investments will need to be of equal to 6% of the world's domestic product, 4% of the transport and other infrastructure services, and 2% due to energy efficiency and efficiency, where renewable energy has been adopted here on the land after investments due to transport infrastructure and other infrastructures that need to be 4% of GDP to meet international requirements. However, 4% of GDP is at 2° weather, and it is clear to label a higher percentage of GDP to achieve the 1.5° target declared by Iceland and other countries to be willing to achieve. The government is responsible for this funding along with the economy, and it is clear that it can be better if expenses are to be paid for. In this way the Icelandic government's contributions have to meet its ambitious goals and to reduce financial initiatives that contribute to the growth of emissions and to the use of economic and tax systems in a far more efficient way than is currently being done in the support of climate in the United States. We want to see far more ambitions from the government in the climate than it is in, for example. in an existing financial program that we'll be able to discuss next week. Money and financial programmes need to reflect the will of Iceland to fulfill its international commitments and to become more evident today as far as the government's ambitions for climate change are concerned. It is also clear that the market elements will not solve the problem on their own. This applies equally to measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and counter measures. In order to specifically reduce greenhouse gas emissions by green building, the government needs to take the initiative and point this out for energy change. It's gonna take a bigger, more targeted subsidence of the electric vehicle we're in here. We're talking about more, more cars being under this bill, which is on the agenda, as well as an investment in public transport, investment in the economy, and food production, strengthening green administrations, and implementing a green investment plan. No community problems are achieved through rapid energy exchanges and other changes in employment and life-styles unless the welfare, welfare grounds are guided and ensure that the costs do not fall on the shoulders of income groups or in the scattered groups beyond those of others based on studies conducted by economists for my economicists, but would generally be at Oxford University in May 2020, based on interviews with third 100 experts and executives in financial conferences and money bills in many parts of the world, there are investments in green innovation and development and infrastructure and transport and distribution systems for renewables in the midst of the high-proceivered, multi-regional, high-regional, high-real, high-proceiving activities. Thus, the aims of sustainability and noncarbonization are in good stead for improving quality of life and for increasing the number of jobs. So it is important to set up a powerful green investment fund and greatly increase the budget for public transport and green innovations. The number of solutions and data currently available can be used to preserve biodiversity and to prevent climate change. Biology. The diversity of the sea is very important to us in this country, and if evolution does not stop there, it will adversely affect our fishing grounds and the economic effects at the same time. The European Union has set up a special system to ensure that there will be a change to eight climates, that economic neutrality will be just, and that there will be no leaving anyone behind. It's part of a green Community Convention on Eurost green jokes. Animal systems deal with the social and economic impacts of the transition, with specific support and special emphasis on sectoral and remuneration that will face the greatest challenges we face. We want to make sure that the green transition will be fair and all will be equal. In the Northern Council, there has been a high priority on righteous green transitions and nobility on the issue of justice that is growing. In the end, everyone has to contribute to the battle against climate change, but the costs of green transitions will not be increased by those who have been remembered among their hands. In fact, the green transition could produce a more reasonable exchange of quality than is now known. On the other hand, if people are to experience greater equality or to take on excessive burdens in the battle against climate change, they will weaken their support for long - term consequences. It would also not be successful in working against the threat of climate, man - made catastrophe is the green exchange towards a noncarbonization of society. There may be areas, sectores, or remunerations that now rely on carbon, splicing economy, and facilities that need to be taken on because of the necessary action for the transition. The technological revolution opens up many opportunities in the green transition. However, it is the same as the green transition, since the technological revolution has to be prevented from eroding. On the contrary, increasing the equation, green transition, will no doubt lead to changes in labour markets and related and species of jobs. There are new jobs, other changes, and still others may disappear. There are ways to prevent unemployment because of the transition and that those who have remembered among their hands now will not be affected badly by this revolution. The best solutions come with cooperation, making sure that everyone is involved in the discussion of a righteous green transition and the goal is to divide the quality of the welfare system into a responsible economy. They contributed to an organized and healthy workforce. Therefore, it takes political leadership and a collective campaign of labor movement, rural society, employment life, and government to ensure that the transition will be just, and that is precisely why we in the United States have proposed a synonym that has not yet been established on the council but, by permission of the president: The General concludes to assign the government to implement a timed and funded operation programme to ensure a righteous transition and to submit to the General Assembly no later than April 1, 2023, and the implementation of the strategy will be called after consultation with unions, unions, and professionals. The aim of the strategy must be to prevent the success of the climate-based equality and to ensure that the green exchange contributes to an increased social equation, as well as that financial and financial programmes reflect the will of Iceland to meet its international commitments in climate change. But, Mr. President, I wanted to draw this out here. While this bill here may not be a giant step in transport energy exchange. Well, that's certainly what matters, and it's been an indiscriminate freak for electric cars from the past year on. I remember this in my time at the Ministry of finance since 2012, and it was discussed in 2013 and since then we've been with these incarnations, and I think it's important that we keep them up and expand our cars and that I think it's wise to take this date off from re-selling inside and beyond, of course, to care for the rescue teams by helping to finance the exchange of cars used in rescue work. But President. We'd have to talk more about the green transitions and their consequences. There are all kinds of standards and standards that are being worked on in foreign countries that we will need to adopt here in the administration board, including and we do things that we need to fill and understand, and I'm not. I don't think we're talking enough about this. We do not realize how much the cost will fall, what jobs will change, and who will need to carry the cost, as I have repeatedly said in my speech, to keep the green change just, and those who have been mentioned to one another do not have to carry the greatest cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. Harðardóttir For the first talk, a new Hardydotir, did a little to talk about the more important things in the context. In this discussion, there is another effect that climate change has brought about inexorably and otherwise in the measures we take to support the climate problem, which surely we celebrate every step of the world, and I accept it. But there has truly been criticism of this proposal, and this is the way it will not address other factors and consequences and may even claim that it promotes a certain inequities, and I wonder, for example. To me: Now I don't know any people who are borrowing or any of those things that, despite this subsidies, can afford to buy a new electric car, which may be saying a little bit much, even though they are taking down a million and a half million dollars. That doesn't mean that everyone can buy an electrical vehicle, and maybe that doesn't mean that people are buying an electric car that couldn't have done it otherwise. Perhaps these are people who, anyway, could have done it - they might use to get a car number. Two or three, and one such thing, which is not what we are trying to contribute to, so what I might have wanted to do with this discussion at the time. A senator, that's exactly what it is, don't we need to think about it that way? What is the target group? What can we do to ensure that everyone can be involved in combating climate change and that we too are not? We have, first of all, been working against inequities in this operation. And how can we make sure that we are not working inexorably to encourage inequities in these measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u74	This one. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. Mr. President. I think it's very important to have incentives so that more people can get electric cars because it matters. It reduces emissions. It is important that we reach our goals. I like what I'm doing. A senator, who may have realized to listen to my speech, stressed that this transition does not result in an inequities. But that is not to say that we are not supposed to have any intentional action there at this point. Other measures may be taken to meet the fact that everyone can take part in the battle against climate addiction because we're not successful unless all of us do it and this one, and I think it's fine if we look at the statistics on all these matters. The bill points out that while we have to do better, energy exchanges in this country are actually going well, and older cars are being retailed, which are then cheaper than new cars, and then these cars are also becoming less expensive in production. I think it's important to have this coincidence, even though not all of them can use it, but meet them in other ways, and I'm particularly thinking about when it comes to reimbursement and maintenance of the road system because the electric cars are breaking the roads, even though it's much less than gasoline and diesel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u75	Hv. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. President. Thank you. The answer to the question, but I wondered: " Do I have to agree that perhaps there are other ways in which people might not be able to use this, which I wonder, " Is it really what the senator feels about ideas that have revealed about how to prevent it from going literally to such a way that, for example? ' The number of cars in the streets, which, as the senator pointed out, are also working against the objective, even if cars do not provide protection for themselves by simply driving the streets and other sources of pollution. But I would like to ask. A senator how she feels about ideas such as limites this to the fact that there is only a change in the number of cars that people already own, that they are not adding a car, e.g. that this would apply only to a home where there is only one car or for just one car or something or some other way to prevent this from working against both the climate targets and the other factors that I truly agree on. That's what a senator does. Perhaps not all options work in equal terms. What I'm talking about is that we don't have any other ideas about how we can do this, and then I'm also wondering if there's any other way we could limit it, if the Senator has any other idea how we can do it without being encouraged to buy more cars or such things because it's probably not what it involves, which is the solution to climate problems, which is the goal of which is so wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u76	See what? paritaprevir "Oddduja G." Oddný Harðardóttir? Me? Mr. President. Of course, there's only reason to look at this, but I, for example. I wouldn't be adding him to cars, I'd be driving an electrical vehicle and those I recognize and know who are in exactly the same position and you drive only on one car at a time. Well, it's better if you hit a power truck than in gasoline and diesel cars. But just as I went to my talk, we have a little way to go by knowing exactly what we need to do to take more aggressive measures to help fight climate crisis caused by man. We have the biggest waste, the pace is in transport, then the food flows, the imported products, and we have work to do, and we both need to be careful about working hard and well against the threat that it is. You see, fear is so terrible. It is so visible, and it will be from year to year, and although we have only forgotten to think about the climate during a pandemic, it went on and the global warming continued, although the crown of the virus was planting. So there's just a need for such drastic action, and what we're talking about here is just a tiny step, and we need to look at it in context and be careful not to push in the wrong direction. But maybe I can. I don't think it's wrong to look at this idea as a question. A senator is in. But that's when you need to map the situation with people who are buying electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for his speech and especially the emphasis. A senator's balance and importance. I just wanted to go further than what. My senator went on to see in this equation that now it is as it has been said that these declines apply completely regardless of the position people have an economic status and we have seen that the families of which those family members of lower income groups are perhaps we should say they are still trapped in old gasoline, jackets because of how expensive these cars are today. Lucky for you. Like what? A senator pointed out: As it is drawn up, the guard of these cars is to go downhill. But I wanted to know what. A senator would have some ideas about how we could adapt this system so that we would be making sure that, in particular, those in need of such subsidies will be able to enjoy it fully. Those who may be adding Grandma the largest of four, four or better jeeps are not buying, not making use of this. At the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u78	That's an answer to a question. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. Mr. President. I agree that these things, these coincidences, are not meant to promote people and that we are giving discounts so that we can collect more cars. But I'm willing to say that there are very few. The honor tax is a consumer tax, and it is important that it is used as an incentive so that more people buy electric cars. Others will take advantage of them to do so. We don't make sure everyone's on the move to do it. However, this step, to reduce the consumption of electricity taxes, has been shown to increase the number of electricity cars on the streets, and it's good when we look at the climate problem, what we have to do because of it. But there are so many things we have to do along the way. We need to improve the quality of public transportation and transport we have to do and reduce the number and size of cars on the streets, as we know in neighboring countries. So I don't have a magic solution right now, but we've seen this trend, and we've seen it matter. I think that because I'm just such a practitioner, I think it might be hard to get it done, that it'll be just a discount of a base tax from a first electric car or something like that. I think there might be a bit of a stretch in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. You must, I must admit that I am not an expert on cost taxes, because I always got accountants with my own company to always care for me so that it would be right to do so. But if I get it right, then it's like a little bit of credit goes down to companies who are going to buy electric cars, and that's how I learned it. That's how it works with a business. They can use tax taxes in turn, so they don't have to cancel the value tax on the cars they're buying and you've done a lot about it in the past few years, especially in recent years, that they're changing to electrical cars in companies and institutions. Many members of the Generals, who get a car to get it because they come from abroad, such as the U.S.A. power, cars. And I wanted to ask you why. A senator would feel that it is really fair that we are also decommissioning from the companies who can use this as a tax and therefore win, reduce the resources for the families, for we are speaking of a limited number.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u80	Then the answer to the second one, who. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. Mr. President. I thought no matter how much we look at it, it's important to increase the number of electric cars in the streets, and that's why it's important, for example. The rentals are buying electrical cars, and it's important that the infrastructure doesn't cause trouble and trouble when it comes to operating electrical cars. I'll do it. A senator needs to call on the secretary of finance to review whether this is taken out of parentheses when it comes to renovating tax and tax deduction because if this discount can be used and to show, a lower value tax payment came from a smaller source and when companies are buying services at a certain higher percentage or higher, yes, this is the case. Then there's an extra strength for the companies. But I just don't know what's going on in this case and just wait. A senator is going to forgive me, but he's going to the Ministry of finance to get this information. But in any case, it is important to have the motivation to increase the number of electricity cars and the number of gas and diesel cars that are very dangerous when it comes to human climate problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u81	Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. I'm happy for this bill, and I'm happy with my wide lines. Of course it may be that something has to be changed and then, and I'm just looking forward to a better review of it to an economic and business committee, but in the foundation, I'm happy with this approach. The minister of finance and his Ministry to try to direct taxes to total clean energy cars rather than to link trucks. I also agree with the harsh criticism that came from the Ministry of State. A minister is required to extend a very significant tax charge when it comes to the payment of rental companies not only for pure energy cars but also for contacts, tweezers, and gasoline and diesel cars. The tax rate was extended now to approved budgets in December, and it is, of course, always noted that much of this kind of support goes up to the top intermediate groups. That's right. But to me, it doesn't change that it's just one of the very many tools we need to use in the toolbox right now to speed up emissions in the next few years and that, as it was said, more fossil fuel emissions in road transport and other transportation are being used. The minister has here today with a bit of rental and the importance of this rental car, a company comes in on this project, and I just want to grab that ball, so, at least last thing I know, I buy rentals more than 40% of all new cars in Iceland, because the ratio has ever gone up to 50 or 60% one year, and there's no ratio in the world like this, maybe because Iceland is a travel service. Land is a rural country. We have weak public transportation, not by train systems, but by public transportation. It's exactly fine to discuss such a case as, or to touch it on the index.is today, what kind of messages are immediately being received by tourists at the Leifs station on public transportation in Iceland, sitting inside at the airport, there's no meaning to the walking of buses, and this was not to be found one meaning in Leifs Station. Car cabs are such obvious options for tourists and the road that most of them choose to go there are direct immediately to their arrival at the Chefavour Airport, so this must account in some way for the percentages and purchases of cars or the percentages of all new cars in Iceland and, of course, all of them are problems just because all cars, including electrical cars, rely on very much carbon rather, and have bad environmental impacts. I think it's just very important to keep that in mind in this discussion that the big project is to counteract the growing number of cars in general. We have less to drive, in effect, to reduce the number of cars on the streets. It's something we should do when talking about paying taxes. But the whole thing with the rental cars and this high percentage may be a real concern because only the fractions of a car fleet come in first place. In fact, the clean Norwegian ratio has increased very rapidly over the last two years, and it is still very low. It's just a business reason for this, of course, the most practical way to buy and rent out small and cheap gasoline cars, the small demand for tourists for cars that need regular access and the country's status, that, according to numbers from 2020, your rental cars are 7.3% of Iceland's cars. They are causing 10.6% of the emissions from transportation on a national scale, and these are cars that go into the aftermark so that the way cars, rental cars buy will have a huge impact on the overall population of the car fleet, which may be a bit of the problem. It is, in fact, empty to talk about some real battery of cars except car rents, the business is very active in it. It is not something that happens on its own, and it does not happen unless the official stage is in a very progressive way. This can be done by building up, loading wood, e.g. Just at Keflavík Airport, where there has been a shortage of these insides, it may have been one of the reasons why rental companies buy little of pure energy cars. We need to increase the number of infrastructures in the lowest paid accommodations around the country, major tourist areas, and, of course, use some sort of tax appeal, but even those measures, just so-called calls, just decide that within a certain number of years, the share of pure energy cars in the total, shopping, or total resources of the companies must be much higher than it is today that this is all the way around the project. If we're going to make Iceland that if we're going to continue to enjoy the fruits of the tourism but to do so in an eco-friendly way, it's a bit of a major project, and this is a complete key to speeding it up in general because of the fact that I went across the market and how the rentals really were a huge influence on how the truck fleet as a whole is combined. The structure of public transport and the changes in tourism are, as I went across the river, essential real success in climates and must make it more attractive, simple and comfortable, both for tourists but also for Icelanders to travel through the country without having or renting a car, and we need not only to move ourselves into electric cars but also to resist the growth of cars, we need to work on the increase in automobiles. This calls for a more densely populated area. That doesn't make it any more important to the electric truck. We need to be completely reversed in our transport right now in a few years so that we can reach the targets of greenhouse gas emissions, and I think we're quite ready for some particular action there to be more in the interests of the upper intermediate groups than any other. I don't think there's something we should put in our place as long as we do something else in return that will help them with their earnings, such as. Just that I went over to big ups and build public transportation and lower the fees. Of course, it requires that the public also enter in in in a very specific way. But this may be the kind of thing I would like to say about my rentals, and I'm happy to the highest level. A minister should first mention this and encourage him in this regard, both he and, of course, the minister of the climate. In general, I would like to use the last few minutes here to point out a certain discrepancy in the government plan for the recession of transport emissions. Now, according to a government contract, the government determined that Iceland will become independent of fossil fuels in the year 2040. Yet, there seems to be no plan to stop the new registration of cars that put fossil fuels ahead of 2030. The question arises: What exactly is to be done to get all this fossil fuel, farms that will only be bought now in the next few years, out of circulation during the period 2030 -2040 to achieve the goal of total fossil fuel disposal? 2040? How does it even rhyme with each other? Here I suspect that governments are protected by government, often thinking that it is dramatic in some way to mention a date in the past, just to decide to quit here. It forbids the new registration of gasoline and diesel cars until 2030. It's just somehow postponing this in the past, but it actually puts the risk just for more dramatic action later. That's if we have something to do with this when we're talking about Iceland being free of fossil fuels. It's just a question I might leave behind. Actually, this also pointed to the highest. Environment and Climate Council are in the written inquiry of March 7. No answers to her. But this and other similar questions are something the government has to answer only here by direct action and policy decisions, konst decisions as soon as possible and then by the revised climate change strategy. Is it not unnecessary, in view of this military goal that the government set out with the government covenant, and will we certainly not be able to support it and encourage the government? It gives an answer to a what. 13th
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for good advance, and I made a special decision. A senator spoke a lot about rentals and what we would have to do to change them to what to say about buying? Do I agree with you? A senator would probably have to put some sort of impulse and charge, probably both of the things I watch as a little more complicated. Is it how we can make sure that tourists have access to loading, services, and good access to education, international services, and then I look especially to the extent that much of the loading, building that has been, it has been just a regular loading, not a faster load. I tried it myself on the electric truck that we were supposed to drive a little bit around the Southland two weeks ago, and I just wanted to hear ideas from him. A senator on this matter: How can we pressure better and faster structure in a hurry what loading stations at any of the major tourist stations we're sending people to? That's when the counter-respect responds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u83	If any of the districts north, Jóhann, Páll Jóhannsson, a respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and this may be a little of the point, that in order to be realistic, if you're going to have to have an electrically electrically-involved fleet, you have to have some chance for tourists to connect, and this needs to be very widely available, and you have to be very, very good of this so that it's going to get a head start. We are naturally affected by the phenomenon of energy, a energy fund that is much smaller in Iceland than the fact that university, funds in many neighboring countries, and which, in fact, are now available to make investments in the interior, apart from just the direct administrations of the government, I think that one thing that might be seen would be useful only to an electric carvagation. It's not just for the rentals, it's actually a sale. Necessary collections of fuel traders I refer to laws set up in the history of the left government that are comparable to laws in many European countries that, in fact, just a limited amount of total fuel energy is of renewable origin. It's just a general set of rules that apply to all fuel sales. This ratio is much lower than in most European countries. There, the ratio has been progressive. I think there's something I need to look at, for example. Whether this is a control device that should be increasingly used, as well as only investments and action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u84	Thirteenth. We're out of here. "Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator before us, and I wanted to take this a little further because the mess for tourists who come here is a little bit high and I decided to pick up a little jump at my daughter and me together. There's a lot of such keys for different gas stations, a fuel truck on which it's on. But if we had had her electric cars, there's still more of those keys to access the others and these loading stations around the country. I know now, for example. that here, the European Union has rules for innovation companies who want to be able to talk to banks and systems about what is being done on banks to access their systems, and I wonder: Then we don't have to open up an opportunity for innovation companies to access all this variable loads, systems. So when people come to the country to travel and take a car, they can go to any loading station, from any side, because we can do it today. I can go and get my gas truck and go to any gas station that leads, perhaps because when everyone ended up having one pumps, the pump ended. He's the only one who can get in. Maybe it was different 100 years ago. I don't know. We don't have to think about how we build up a little more, not just the loading, the Internet, but the community that is needed to make the environment needed to carry out, and in that case, we'll respond to a second time. It's Congress 11th.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u85	11th. Smoke. n., I Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. I wish I had an idea. A senator, all of this is something to look at, and we must take hold of all such ideas. Such innovation is an idea when it comes to energy exchange in the roadways rejoicing in the use of honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u86	The President studied details on this article for temporary purposes this 24th law on merit taxation. There is a small flaw in this preliminary article, not necessarily in this bill, but in the law as they are today, the indirect defects of the Bible are somewhat strange; he should only cross it and ask the island committee to do and correct this flaw. But in this 24th chapter, the matter is growing. this is the very authority to eliminate the value of low-cost automobile taxes, including low-cost automobiles. Except what they're doing here where they changed so much. Then it sounds like this, with president's permission, number two. 14th par. a brief section of the preliminary chapter, with the permission of a president: From a light vehicle or bicycle that forced electricity to a maximum of 96,000 k. light vehicle or bicycle should fall below b-coma 28th or b-coma 30 mg. Section 3. 8711 dog, at least a light vehicle wheel, should be registered as a light vehicle. One in a driver's file, Sb. Twenty-eight. Section 3. traffic law, except that changes in traffic laws are somewhat inappropriate, and there is the exception of the registration criteria to be light motorcycles in category one, while the credit laws require that they be registered in a driver's file to obtain accessable items from non-employment. The honor tax, and I asked a query to the tax. I asked that according to this preliminary principle, if the wheels meet specific requirements, they have a right to a folding value tax. that they are registered in a driver's license, but based on a change in traffic law approved on May 11, 2021, there are light wheels of 1 pound, watt, and less than 25 km per hour for the exception of registrations and no record to be recorded. This seems to be the result of the lack of input tax deduction on those wheels, despite the fact that it was the purpose of the change in traffic laws and the Act on VAT approved for 2019. It's that bike. They were excluded from delinquency on the merit tax from the approval of this preliminary article in 2019 until the law. Traffic was changed in 2001. They forgot to cancel the same agreement, a fair law of honorary tax laws, and I ask the tax, and it answers: By permission of the President, the tax returns that a certain mistake seems to have taken place in the counsel when a change in traffic law was taken into account in May 2001 because the provisional law was not taken into account and that the temporary law changed when the traffic law was accepted. As a result, an unsolved light - wheeled vehicle is not really able to enjoy deposits on a merit tax system. The 24th annual regulations on income tax laws, but the customs authorities only referred the financial department to this problem in the past. Tolls need to comply with the laws they must enforce, and as the provisional principle, as it is said today, they are not permitted to cancel the worthy tax from electrically powered automobiles unless it is registered in the same law. This discrepancies, says the IRS, affects electrical-powered bicycles that fall outside the definition of bicycles, that if they are more powerful than 0.25 kW, and is also of the driving wheel that falls outside the range of range, EU operating machines due to e.g. These data and the force of the motor indicate that the maximum speed is above 25 miles per hour. It's very complex how this light - wheel of a class and two applies to each of its prowess, energy, and speed, and so on. It can be really avoided by an environment and transport committee, perhaps simplifying this something, at any rate defined by traffic-shaped conventional electric bicycles, and other low-powered vehicles, which are reaching maximum speed between 60,25 miles, e.g. machine-powered running bikes, etc. So they continue to rub on. The coincidences. Also, the effects of the electricity of the west and other small electricity, the motor vehicle that goes no faster than 25 miles per hour. I think there's a slight discrepancy in this exact answer to the tax on the other hand, which is said to be the maximum rate of 25 miles, but no faster than 25 miles. Whatever the case, it is a set group that said these vehicles used to enjoy the wills and is the purpose of the provision of the provisional law on income taxes. They were laid down by the General Assembly in 2019. It was the sound of knowing, in fact, a change in traffic laws in 2001, which made them appear to be indiscriminate. The Congress did not really have a clue to change, taking a registration due to a particular type of transportation, would collapse because it was in a whole other law on income taxes. This can happen often, so this should be a very easy transition for committees, economic and business committees to make it actually a preliminary directive because the vehicle does not have to be registered, registered a driver's record. There's no reason to calculate it or anything like that, because it's already been assumed that, according to the law on merit taxation, these vehicles are expected to get this injury. But at the moment, it is really making money that way, and no one is using this incarceration, so it has already been planned for the financial and the like. So it's just a matter of correcting these errors, which were made in the sentence of changing the law of traffic laws that affected this aspect of environmentally friendly transport in accordance with this provisional law being converted into this law. So I've only been in charge of the economy and business committee, and I think this should take a short time to add, hopefully for the best, and see if it doesn't happen. Definitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u87	Madam President. I just wanted to come up and talk about the article in this bill that might not be spoken of here today. We've been very caught up in the talk about the electric cars, but in 1 st. The bill is expanding to a demolition or reimbursement tax by changing rescue teams' vehicles and, of course, counting this to be a very good change today, a decline in driving machines itself, but the truth is that to use vehicles for saving jobs, e.g. Up in the air or under difficult circumstances, they need to undergo very extensive changes and may often be even high in the same way as the vehicle itself, and as the bill's report says that then, with the permission of Presidents: Rescue forces against and unselfish and important roles here in the country prevent accidents, save lives and man and valuables, and therefore I think that this is a good thing, and I think we should work together, both Congress and the Ministry and the Ministry of Justice, to find where to support this good work in this way, and there are things to be considered. Now, with these vehicles, they need to be used under difficult circumstances. So it means that you have to fix a lot of them by request. You might wonder, " Is the value tax of saving equipment being repaired?'And all this is good because it's becoming harder and harder for this organization to earn money for its own business because we're starting to be environmentalized, and maybe we don't want to shoot up fireworks about and we want less of the slots and all of this and, of course, this has an effect, and there are other ways in which the state can support and these are not big amounts, but very important in securing this unselfish work that is going on there? Why, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u88	Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the value tax laws, the number of power cars restrictions. I'd kind of like to agree that we need more power cars and taxation against electric cars. But the saddest part of this is: This is what I'm saying: The fact is that these linkages are the only ones I'm going to say, because of my own experience, that motor vehicles are more convenient for some, and they have proved themselves to be amazingly effective in electricity within towns and in small density. He's out in the country. In many cases it is better than electric cars, and I can just tell you how to own a two - bonded car and buy gasoline on it a month and a half ago when someone 6,000 bucks did. to fill it and then fill it again, now, one and a half months later, by 7,000 dollars. It's black in white how incredible the memory here, both on fuel, some and pollution, because you can use the access time on the electricity to 80, as sure as 80 to 90% of what people are driving within cities and towns. So it's kind of sad that we should only be wearing the electric cars now, because that might also have been taken into consideration. And when I agree that we should try to take this time because it is, of course, completely like a feeling and don't realize it until we try it, what it's like to drive in gasoline or diesel or electricity is a huge difference, and I say in all the way: however, it's electricity in the favor of it, and therefore I decided to come up here and hope that it will somehow be taken into account in trying to increase it somehow that it can be chosen and people have a choice, and therefore I decided that it's something in favor of the link trucks. I think it would speed us up for the exchange we're trying to achieve the reduction in fuel consumption, for the electricity, and it says itself that it would have made it easier for us here in Iceland and we have and can get this exchange quickly and effectively and should try to help it, so as I say, this is the best and I hope it would also be taken into account in the autumn, hopefully, to try to make sure that we will also increase the possibility of using a discount. Coincidence. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u89	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Committee's APC for a bill to set up a set of laws on how to handle equipment, loyalty and security in the workplace, the work period of employees who provide personal assistance in the daily conversations of MPA. The bill suggests the legal handling, the method of loyalty, and the safety of work places, No. 46/1980 will be required that, in exceptional cases, the contract between the local community involved and the owner of the Member State should compromise the law's general rules for rest period and the night hours of services on the basis of Article 11. a law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs, provided that certain requirements are met. The law has been in effect with a provisional law that required permission to compromise regulations from the regulations of 53 and 56 C.E. The law on resttime and the night meeting of the workers who perform services on the basis of Article 11. corrects the services of disabled persons. With long - term supportive measures, No. 38/2018, to be removed from the above measures, allowing work time to be up to a maximum of 48 hours and rest period for the employees should be shorter than required. In such cases, it should be noted that the workers receive the corresponding rest period as soon as required by the same regulations and that the workers can rest for a minimum of seven hours continuously during the night work hours that fall within the hours of work. With this bill, there is a predefined taste of temporary regulations set out in a set of adjustments. The committee discussed the matter, and she received reviews, and she attended a visitor meeting and explained this in a committee study at a Senate document in 1117. In view of the considerable experience in the implementation of user-controlled personal assistance, the above-mentioned provisional regulations were first passed on to law. However, the majority of them want to promote certain viewpoints and point out that despite the legal registration, it is important to keep a close eye on the rules of how to change the work hours of employees who perform the service as here, from what is suggested here. Studies conducted among employees and user - controlled private services show that general satisfaction is seen, but still more of it is important to continue to examine the best way in which employees'work hours will be used, where there will be continued care for the employees' opinions and opinions of those who receive the requested service. Two. The bill is stated that prior to the end of 2025, a review of the terms of general work time, the rules expected by the bill, but the greater part shows that there is no basis for this review to be started earlier if it is called accordingly. The bill requires that a minister be allowed to set a Regulation as detailed in the implementation of the work programme when it comes to the period covered by the bill. The majority stress that such measures are placed as early as possible and that they need to be reviewed regularly according to the needs and experience of the partners. For the Committee it was critical that the agreements on the user-friendly help of the agreements on personal assistance are maximum that may limit access to users of the service. The majority are directed to the Ministry to continue looking for ways to increase the rate of contracts so that those in need will receive the proper service. Then, in particular, the more part would like to indicate that the goal of being legalized is to make the setting of the work hours of employees who are more specific and that in this regard they are endeavoring to conform to the views that will be as well weighted as possible. The rights of employees must be ensured at the same time as allowing space to achieve the objective of the ministry. The bill for the security and rights of staff in cases where the minimum legal rules are set, but this did not only result in interest of staff, as this includes the interests of services in the service, and it also makes clear that failures due to the insufficient rest of employees may have serious consequences for those who are using the service. It is also in everyone's best interest to look after the interests of employees. This can lead to a smaller number of employees' skills, which would be considered useful for users in the ministry. The more part shows that there is no basis for this, therefore, that the labour market organisation can negotiate a collective agreement on the implementation of workers' work hours, within the minimum conditions required by the bill and following the actions of the Regulation. According to the above, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill under the greater part. In addition to the material being presented here, the majority of the welfare committees are viewed as well. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir's daughter, Hafdís, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Orri Páll Jóhannsson and Óli Kárason Káðsson. When it's too big. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u90	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his advance in this important matter. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask a well-known head of the welfare committee only in a general way, including a matter of the user-controlled personal assistance. Now, in the 2022 C.E., in the law on the services of disabled persons with long - term support, it is assumed that this year, in the year 2022, the budget of state funds is given through the local community funds to up to 172 NPA agreements, and this is always in the law, of course, is about whether more or fewer contracts have been applied. This is not at the same time a financial strategy, which is expected only to finance the agreements already in effect that are much less than 172, but to be something around 90, if I recall correctly. Now I've got those answers from the highest. Social and employment ministers that he cannot issue whether there will be more contracts than it financed the duration of this financial program. Maybe I'd like to ask the Honorable Director if she thinks this is a good welfare bitch, if she is, if she feels this adequate, if she feels that this is a good thing for people who just really need this important service, which is just a complete key to securing the freedom and independence of disabled people respond to an answer. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the answer. As noted in the Commission's opinion of this bill, however, the welfare committee encourages a search for ways to expand effective negotiations; and yet, the one here is to admit that she has not stepped into these issues in the big context, although I and we on the social committee have found the time very well to learn about the different aspects of the health committee since the year's employment of the committee. I think it is very important that we continue to improve this service and to increase our contracts, but, of course, there are many things. They need funding, and they need to be sure that if they are ready for the projects, and they also need to build up knowledge within the local community in order to get the ministry organized and, as it were, so that there's a lot going on, but we're still not beyond our experience. But there has been a huge step since the first service. The service was first started here on the land. It's the custom of some people. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u92	Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. This, of course, is a strange situation that has come up with a law that states that a certain number of contracts should be funded by the State this year. That law is not followed. That is the provision of the law on this service. We have the Ministry of Social Affairs. who will not say whether or not we will be up for the next few years in this ideal period to increase the number of contracts and finance them sufficiently. Then we have a financial program that says there will really be no promises of such things. At the same time, is the majority of the welfare committee challenging the government, I don't know any more, the welfare committee is somehow in some kind of government opposition to the government when it comes to the NAPA deal? How does a well - respected chairman of the Committee see this developing for the next few years? Then, too, I would like to point to the recent judgment of the new court in the province of Reykjavík that rural society cannot, in effect, suggest that communities cannot in effect, in effect, in effect, hide themselves from the State when it is made up of service contracts, and when it becomes strained? How can well - meaning people here at the Council use to ensure that the law is followed and that people receive this service as a right to the people when we have both a social minister from the order of the left green and finance minister from the Independence Party, which is entirely different? Apparently, I do. But an honored head of the welfare committee, a senator of the House of Booths.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u93	Then the answer to the second one, who. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson later answers, and I have not really heard it in any man's language, which this project does, except will, continue to increase the number of these contracts. However, it is now that funding is determined in budgets, and it needs to be prioritised, and there certainly there is cumulative information on the need for resources for different projects, and at any given time there may be other tasks within the same category that call for financial support that conflict with the same capital as it is simply the challenge that the budget faces and that they do so. Parliaments on the budget sit at a time. We need to weigh on our secular work and make sure that it is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u94	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party by reason of the river. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who has a minor opinion in this matter and is our representative on the welfare committee and therefore explain my committee's involvement with the welfare board on the staff who provide personal assistance. Is it important, more dignified, at all decisions when it comes to the rightfulness of disabled persons, that representatives of users and their assistants sit at the table from the early stages and that their voices are heavy. In 2019, the then state social and child - care minister appointed under the direction of the Department of Social Affairs with representatives from the Ministry and with the National Association of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, the European Union of Professional Affairs, and the government's workforce. The committee was even. asked to evaluate whether and how appropriate it would be to provide adjustments in the legal requirements for the equipment, method of loyalty and security in the workplace for the rest period and the late hours of service to employees on the basis of Article 11. legalize the services of disabled persons with long - term needs for support, keeping the viewpoints of those who make use of the ministry and those who give it. At the beginning of 2021, the local social and child - care minister also appointed a staff for a global review of law services to disabled persons with long-term needs, with members of the Department of Social Services, the National Social Affairs Association of Iceland, the Union of Iceland, the National Social Services. In the processing of this bill, the World Health Committee of the Common Association of Iceland, the Generals of Colleges, BSRB, the Icelandic Department of Social Affairs, the NPA Centre's Department of Economic Affairs, the National Social Services Association, the National Social Affairs Agency, and the European Commission to discuss the matter, but in all this process, there was only one representative of the users, NPA services against a number of representatives of other stakeholders and no NPA assistants, despite the fact that the bill is about their interests. It would have been better to give voices to servants of the ministry and to those who are more important to the ministry. In all the discussions and leading of the bill, it is also appropriate to point out that while the bill appears to have been taken into account in line with the international commitment of Iceland according to the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons despite Iceland's validation of the Treaty in 2016. This agreement includes a commitment to real communication between government administration and disabled people on matters and legislation involving disabled people. Section 3. 3 mg Causes 4. g. The deal. This, of course, underscores the seriousness of the need for discussion, and in fact, at the same time, a respectable president, that, of course, it is also against the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons to have some kind of greeting in access to personal assistance. Such assistance should be offered to disabled persons, regardless of their economic situation, living conditions, and other factors, so that they really need to improve, too. But then we return to the subject. A respectable president. The aim of the employers is to protect employees from the effects of problems with employers but to work the relationship between MPA. On the other hand, the work of managers and their assistants is unorthodox in terms of work. The objective of NPA is to give works, managers the opportunity to live their own lives at home, but they could otherwise borrow their banks or without assistance. The work programme is often entirely dependent on its helpers, with many or even all the activities of daily living all day, causing the raw materials to cause the imbalance, in contrast with the work rights of the normal labour market. It is important to consider this with review of labour legislation with regard to NPA. It differs from the circumstances of the user and the MPA staff to the normal functions. The attitudes and viewpoints of assistants have shown that there is a great flexibility in the work and that helping people decide to organize their activities in cooperation with the users of the ministry. A greater proportion of those working as NTE helpers are very happy with working hours on a work programme in the current provisional legislation for a temporary enforcation of regulations from regulations 53 and 56.g. set aside rest and night work hours for the NPA assistants, allowing them considerable distances to organise their work in the most successful way for NAPA users and assistants. This space, using a special labour contract from the 2015s of the MPA staff, was widely developed between users and staff. The contract stipulates a maximum of two common 24 - hour activities of these conditions. assistants. A few get the necessary constant rest during the shift and get time to take breaks at lunch breaks. According to observational reviews, there is a general sense of pleasure with the current arrangement, including users and assistants. Supporters benefit from receiving a longer break from shifts, enabling users of the service who need help 24 hours a day to have fewer shifts. With this arrangement, the service user is less confined to shift changes, enabling him to live independent lives, which, of course, as we know is the primary objective of the MPA service, and it is worthy to mention that NPA workers generally feel that pressures are appropriate at work. The work is not conventional; it is a matter of helping the field service users according to their individual needs. Therefore, this does not include persistent stress, such as V. Many other jobs are applicable and it is also important to make sure that the current labour agreement receives at least The day - to - day average schedule between 24-hours to ensure that there is sufficient rest during the induction of abbreviated week of work, resulted in a total of six total daily activities over a four-week period, meaning that during a 28-day work period there are 22 days off. So considerable rest and leisure time are expected between shifts. In front of it, the memory part cannot see that there is strong evidence to set aside the present arrangement in such a clear way as to be suggested in the bill. In view of the need for pleasure in both users and staff by law, it cannot be seen that it is necessary to enforce an arrangement with the current agreement. But if we turn to the grounds of the law, then the bill will be responsible for the release of an issue of regulations from the regulations of 53 and 56th. Song. Since this is a provision for April 1, 22, it is necessary to extend or establish the warrant in order to ensure the future of the ministry. Based on the report on the bill, the main motivation and rights of the NPA assistants are given. The users of NPA are made up of a very diverse group of people with different needs. However, if the bill were to be legal, the MPA service service score is too narrow for the user services to be fixed, e.g. less than that say, but now when they go to sleep and would have to be up to bed by midnight. As noted above, the objective of the MPA service is that disabled people have more to say how they behave daily, including when they go to sleep and how they behave during the day. In paragraph 2, paragraph 1. The bill provides a far more strict requirement for those at rest at the end of the period and to break it than is required in current special contracts. In view of the special nature of the ministry, it is unwise to narrow the conditions in this way, but this can result in unnecessary pressures and noises for users of the ministry. In addition, the law goes beyond the demands of the helpers and their trade unions. So the bill is suggested to cut off the freedoms people who are disabled and to help those who already enjoy special contracts. This time. There is insufficient evidence to support this report with the bill, particularly in view of the uniqueness of the work and its arrangements, but just as I have previously caused general pleasure among NPA users and those with the current programme to ensure rights and their best interests, it would have been sufficient to put the authority in the hands of users who could be further developed in special business contracts by trade unions. When laws are made, a respected president, it is important to keep in mind the motives and the motives of the law. The bill refers to a main policy for MPA's interests, but there was only one representative at the table in all the processes under which the bill was submitted. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about NPA users coming up. In view of the specific nature of the work, it would have been only natural for the voices of people in the service and its staff to be more meaningful and to take more into account, considering the experiences of servants of the service and their assistants, there was no basis for making such a dramatic compromise in the rightness of their policy. The smaller portion rejoices that the service is being established by law to eliminate the uncertainty that has remained in these areas for the past few years. On the other hand, the smaller portion considers the second paragraph 1 paragraph. Passing too far and achieving the stated targets of the bill could not have been set aside. In such a decisive way, why? 8th yrs South, Oddnýju new G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u95	Madam President. I'm signing the opinion of the committee of the greater part as a boy. paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir, president of the welfare committee, went over fine here and I don't have to repeat her words but this bill with the bill is actually being placed in law what has been previously made for temporary purposes, and it's certainly the same thing as the bill is designed to ensure employees' rights at the same time as there is room to achieve the objective of the services to be met. They are trying to look both to those in need of the service, and also to those who provide it as a bill for security and rights of staff in the event that the minimum legal requirements are taken and as I said earlier, I sign this opinion and do not need to repeat what is said there. But at the same time, I'd like to agree with what's left of it. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who writes a committee opinion from a smaller part of the health committee, shows that when this bill was prepared, it was only one representative of the users, NPA services versus a number of representatives of other stakeholders, organizations, and no NPA assistants, despite the fact that the bill has been centered on their interests and I think it is certainly critical, and it is not the last bill or the last debate we take of disabled persons or of those who need personal assistance and in the future we need to make sure that they sit at the table that really knows the matter and look at their point. But saying so, we did well on a well-being board, and there were, of course, differences in viewpoints, even though most people were happy that the bill was coming, and in it, a penance of justice, as well as a protection to those who need personal assistance. But it remains, Madam President, that there are not enough people who enjoy this service at all. Not everyone is. It is not an amount of money that everyone who needs an MPA is required to enjoy that service. That's from it. Is there a possibility of doing this in financial planning and funding for the coming years because it's the way things are right now? Is this really a lot of injustice, a scene, and just the human rights of disabled people and the user - controlled personal help just so that disabled persons can live life as they can? I'd like to mention, Mrs. President, as I said before, this is certainly not the last bill we're talking about for the interests of disabled people because it's enough to take and I have in my conversations with my colleagues who are providing increased services are not getting enough contracts but are offering something similar even if it doesn't go all the way, such a service to people who need personal assistance every day and sometimes there's one employee who's in the service three, etc. so these are all the precautions of this service in rural society and the differences between rural communities, but the co-markets, both those with MPA contracts and the others that it is almost unwilling for disabled people who need this service to take a vacation. So, first of all, it's so expensive that people have to pay off. What if someone wants to go to Spain, where they have to pay for them and stay, but also for the assistant who pays a salary to help the country on the road? Travel within the country is simply impossible for most people to do, and it is also a problem. It has to be said that a young disabled person wants to do as one suggested, so I want to go on the civil property in the summer. There are things to think about. Of course, they need to check on the car, and that can be the case. If staff or rural groups charge fuel bills, e.g. in your own car, the extra cost is rooming. It is for the helper, and it needs to be about the route and information about what? What access is there for disabled people along the way. There must be a toilet available to the disabled, and it must even be expected. The repair service must be mapped in case the tools fail, e.g. and there needs to be access to the pharmacy and health care, and then it is where disabled persons complain that they visit the tourist and rural websites and that it lists the availability of disabled persons and which tools are available, e.g. In summerhouses, and already it arrived, there is no stone on top of it. It may be revealed that there are shower chairs in the cottage if it doesn't turn out to be, and this causes trouble and here and can make trips, just literally upset. And then we take back the example of the young people who want to go to the furnace, the Citizens of the East. At that time, when there is no room for lodging to get properly from the Vikings to the city. Suppose, then, that this long journey revealed that there is nowhere to stay. But you may need to stay at least two places on this trip, and if the disabled toilet, who see or see the way, turns out to be on a step on the house, this could upset the whole trip. So they need to be taken care of, and they need to be sent out a clear message to the tourist attractions and to the rural society, which have access to access that, first of all, the data are completely clean and clear and then exist where it is promised to be available for disabled people. So it is not merely that it is difficult for young disabled people or just disabled people who need such personal help. It is more expensive than it is for other people to go on vacations; it is also a situation that is often very difficult and that is, in fact, a price paid for these expensive judgments. Then there are all kinds of obstacles along the way, so the message to the disabled is just that I can't just keep you at home, just be home, and there's no good messages to people, and we need to be careful about their human rights as well. Finally, Madam President, people who use Icelandic Sign Language. It can, for example, be used. I did not walk, provided that there are no costs or that there are optional travel, so I just wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to point out that disabled people who need NPA or in personal service each day will find it very difficult to get on vacation and need it as much as the rest of us. It is important to find out how to assist them, both financially and financially, to pay for the helper's pay expenses. The bioavailability, however, is also very important. But finally, Madam President. I think and I believe that this bill is an improvement, but it also agrees with the majority opinion. We have to keep an eye on it all the time. These are unusual hours of work, and rules are bent so that all of these can work together. However, it must continue to be careful that the services of both the services and the people it provides are cared for, and it is important that the staff get their rest because it also counts for the one who is having the ministry because it can become an accident and accidents and can become a big problem if the staff does not get their rest and is tired of working too hard, so it must be taken care of for these things too, although it is important to maintain flexibility in working time. At the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u96	A respectable president. We are here discussing a bill to correct a commitment form in the workplace, the worktime of employees as a person, to provide personal user control. I'd like to take my heart to it. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir just said here. I can totally support it 100%. This is very difficult, and I have to say that the reason I decided to be on the committee was because I began to look. We've been putting this matter off year after year. We rejoiced here at the beginning soon after I arrived at the council to celebrate the fact that we hope that large increases in the number of people who received personal help to handle this work, and I'll be down here in votes two years ago. This was repeated votes to postpone this case and, by the permission of the president, said this word: "I agree with what has been said here: we need to finish this case, confident that this will be the last time we have to vote on it. Then I'll be supporting it because it's a matter of NPA service that's very important. We've got to get this fixed for all of us once and for all, to our shame. Quotation ends with that. Of course, it would be a disgrace to us to have taken these things lightly all this time. But are we doing this once and for all? No, I'm sorry, it won't be. But we're taking a big step. We're trying to put some rules in place at the staff's hours that have both been required to keep them in place, it's totally how they want to do this. Yes, there was an agreement, but that agreement was only different from what is being done here. But what may be most important in this context is what we are discussing here, and it clearly shows that it must be followed closely by the manner in which this works, and if it doesn't work, there's a lot of caution that it will always be possible to reconsider the matter and try to figure out the inadequacy that surfaces, and it's very important because we always know that when we're putting new legislation on something, there's always something that can fail. But anyway, we've got a certain skeleton around these matters, and hopefully it's gonna work out well and hopefully if there's any defects. Then we'll have to come out and we'll take them off and fix them. But what else is in this matter, and how clearly it is, it was clearly ignored. paritaprevir Elín Anna Sævarsdóttir that we say that it is not necessary to increase the contracts of user-controlled personal service. We just have to say, just as it is, we just have to say that there's such a shame. We have come out, and today we will be spending nearly 200 people with us under the age of 67 and some under 50 in nursing homes. These are people who have right and should be on, can choose NAPA agreements, and it is also even more terrifying when we have seen them here from the past when MP contracts were made by individuals and they were actually moving into an institution and then condemned illegally. This shows the violence and the absurdity of the people and systems called healthy people, showing complete blindness to the circumstances of these people because, as shown, a young woman who lands in a nursing home said that she was imprisoned in her room but something remarkable. She had been transferred from one to another just so that she had none in the neighborhood who knew or served completely. A person has no chance of leading a normal life. There is no need to tell anyone that a person under the 50's has a nursing home, that the person is happy and can live a decent life. It's absolutely impossible, and we have, and we have the obligation to show these people the respect of not doing these things. But, unfortunately, there is a further increase in the number of people who suffer from these setbacks and are so under compulsion to transfer into nursing and even to the one who sums up such a situation that my government is not dealing with this problem, and it must increase the MPA that she is required to make sure those who want this service are needed for this service, because it is also the most strange thing to do. I'm surprised if we start thinking that, as we've also pointed out, and I saw someone recently pointed out, that the resources the person would receive are as good, 5◯10 times more expensive to put in this institution than to have it in it. I ask myself, " Aren't we saving the money and throwing it away? ' How can you possibly calculate that having a financial institution is much more expensive? Why in the hell are we going to let this happen, and that's really it? Of course, in most areas. We have fire - aged people, inside hospitals, in the most expensive resources that can be found at the same time that we are not making possible access, so that we can use a space maybe 75% cheaper for the people, so that we are and can certainly do much more and offer much more NA services by just making sure that these people are taken out of nurses and goods and giving this service, because we are often involved in predatory measures we also have to go and I don't think that the case would also be possible to do this kind of thing to those people would have one time for all the legal agreements of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the government has drawn its feet to the point of going into and finishing this legalization. Then you ask yourself, " Why is that? ' Because they count the cost too much. I doubt it because, based on the calculations, they're choosing a far more expensive option rather than an inexpensive resource that all of them are pleased with, rather, a rather expensive resort that no one is pleased with that somehow you have the feeling that this is either a thoughtlessness or that they just don't realize the attitude of the people they're about, and, in fact, I'm just a tourist who somehow can't think about it, why it's this kind of thing. It's here too. This research has shown that the MPA - related arrangement is very good, and it has also been shown to be true. As noted, papules were observed. Harðardóttir It's not just the thresholds, it's the holes, it's the quicksand, and it's just the hills that these people have to deal with. Although it has come to NPA that even if it has entered that service, there are always obstacles, such as travel, and usually the simplest service to get to a theater, a café, or a cinema, there are extraordinary obstacles. But before that, I decided to support this bill in the sheer hope that at least we're on the right track, we're here to decide to stop the one-year extension. We've been doing now two or three times to maintain the fact that the service does not fall down and then hope that a minister's Regulation will see to it that there will be a careful monitoring of what it will be, and I also hope that it will be. I give you that the MPA centre will keep an eye on this, along with the Micro-Communication League and others. They will have the same in these things too. If we had also legalized the UN agreement on the affairs of disabled people, there is a provision that would have used to create a guide, as well as to watch how the laws and regulations are being handled and whether things are working properly and legally, and that is one of the missing elements of this system. We. We know that those who have disability, they are a dead end in society, not just to get NPA contracts and they also maintain financial survival. It's nobody. We know that there is no question about trying to survive some more than 200,000 dollars. in a month after taxes, there's no hope in Iceland. It's your life, you're in a corner, you're in a poor environment, and it's also a disgrace to us because, of course, we're supposed to find the right implementation of the law that anyone can use, but at least we're going to keep this dignity the way it is. It's not, and it's not in these NA treaties either, and I'm just saying that I hope that there's a huge and heartfelt increase in the contracts of MPs, and I hope this law that we're putting here fort because it's being taken at rests and hours. However, this is as we have seen, a very special work environment, a very special workplace, and a very close relationship between people serving those with MPA who are very busy and therefore must be carefully monitored and to make sure this works. And if it doesn't work, we just have to take it and correct it if we need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u97	Senator of the Reykjavík District South, Kristrún, Frosti a bit. A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity in our discussion now about NPA's user - controlled personal assistance, to review just how the country is doing next year for this class. Now we are sitting on a high-rated budget board discussing the financial resources that will flow toward welfare, such as the MPA more issues over the ideal period, including whatever political authority the government has to do with this suit. We talked to the Microcracy Association shortly ago, and we can see to it that it is clear that, despite the fact that the last Christmas had begun to arrive, there is an increase of 320 million dollars in the amount of money. K. to NAPA so that existing negotiations could be financed and the 320 million seem to have entered this budget now out of this ideal period. The amount of money that is thus expected to reach the level of agreements that are currently in effect. There are too few contracts. It is quite certain that there are individuals waiting for this service, and it is quite unrealistic to set such a pattern for them. This is a known variable. So, there is no funding in the financial program for growing contracts, despite the lack of this money now, and I would like to put it in the general context of this category, because it was a report that was now published in spring showing an amazing angle at a level of 9 billion people who are disabled. Over the past year, this has paid off at the local level of 17 billion dollars in the litigation category. which local communities are paying for this category of litigation on the basis of laws set up. This is a legal service, and recently this case had a judgment on the need for rurals to perform this service. It is to render service to disabled persons regardless of whether money is coming from the State. This is because we live in the amazing reality here in this country that the Allied Council is forbidden to establish laws about government funds that are not financial, but it can make it possible for these institutions to do so for their 17 billion dollars. and there is nothing in a financial program that takes into account the obvious need for funding. A committee is being set up to consider these matters, but there is nothing to be said about financing. That's a lot of money. This will also be evident if we examine the details of the work history of the local community and the company of the Icelandic community, these 17 billion dollars. Now that those who have really been built up in debt because of this legal sect fit virtually everything at the point of the rural government, the painting of a group of disabled people and their ignorance from the state's funds has failed the ability of rural society to survive. under their investments, which is very serious because, according to the latest financial agenda, it is moving toward a historic low investment level in the countryside throughout the ideal period. So there's a government fund setting up these corporations a very difficult position, and this is nothing more than a serious cut-off that'll take on us later, and this is a known phenomenon of state funds and this government. This is surgery on the back door of the welfare service. What's somehow on the table of Ministers and Government is being kept clean while here it's trying to validate the well - being services of the disabled without the financial support of the sufferers and then the government repeatedly turns around and points to the rural communities and wants to mean that they're just not properly fired. A respectable president. The Honorable Director of the Health Committee referred to earlier and spoke of the willingness to increase the MPA contracts of the people of this government for individuals, at the same time. The members of the Honourable Government, but there is no funding behind that will and without money, there is no basis for these plans, the political declarations that are in charge outside that there is simply the wrong priorities here. A respectable president. I mention it too because it is repeatedly mentioned, including in the lawsuit of the Honorable Director of Health Committee, that, of course, priorities are needed. This group of subjects just has to face the need to set priorities. Let's go over our priorities. Governments, saw earlier this week, appeared with figures of government resources showing at least 15 billion dollars. has been paid to tax relics on the basis of a plan. Everyone works 15 billion, almost as much as they have, and they have gathered from a palace because of a group of disabled people in the rural community. This strategy, everyone working, was extended now by Christmas, following pressures from stakeholders, stakeholders, construction companies, and executives. In spite of the very important information received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that the extension of these measures would be unwise, this change that the government approved by the government would not be costly and no further stimulation of the construction industry would be needed. Now, after an answer to my inquiry earlier this week, we know that one third of the 15 billion dollars. ... whichhave been granted tax returns at all jobs, has found its way to construction companies directly fighting for this strategy. Then I am not talking about increasing activity in the article, which is indirectly looking to those who are often discussed, not indirectly because individuals themselves were able to apply for reimburse taxes, and because of this, there was a growing number of projects. No, the payments the construction companies themselves applied for their business with other companies, and remember, a respectable president, that one of the main arguments the management have had in the process about the resources, all work would be reduced from black employment. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, that it is common in the payment of companies between companies that there is a great deal of payment involved. This is, in effect, an amazing priority for tax money, especially when the construction sector was one of the few sectors that came better out of a pandemic than the management payoffs prior to Kuwait. The driver's generator was last year, and in recent years the greatest in the century. In addition, among the individuals who applied directly for this provision, half of the tax rate has yielded to the highest rate of 10 percent and 85% to the highest income of 30%. These numbers are exactly the same as we saw at government tax pay-offs, the property savings that can be set aside as tax-free into the mortgage, so it is perfectly clear what the priorities are. 17 billion bucks. within the last three years of the case of disabled persons and the value of that amount Ranni's, tax appeal to construction companies and top people in the community. This then goes up to 50 billion dollars. which the Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter's government has removed from the income fund with large tax reductions in which there is nothing new to correct the angle that has resulted in financial resources, an independent agent who writes records about the budget and financial funds of the estate correctly points to the fact that there is a systematic limp now, totally independent of Kuwait, leaning into the budget of state funds, and there is the greatest effect, the income barrier which is completely broken because of these tax collectors, and in fact, it is so that the income of a state's pay grade which will be the lowest part of a year at the end of a financial program if Katrín's government gets its Jakobsdóttir so much of Jacobs, yes, the honorable president. It's about the priorities of capital like the highest. The government so often claims, and the chairman of the Honorable Health Committee also referred to it. But this priorities are very clear. The billions missing into the basic service have been set aside. Another funding flows from the income stock of the state fund on humans. The basic services are bleeding while members of that group, the most sensitive community groups, are waiting for services, the provision of taxes to the top of society's tunes. This must be a thought - provoking thought, then, that in addition to this, our rural society cannot deny services to disabled people after the day of the conviction in the district court when they are completely left with black Peter, natural, they want to perform this service. With an evenly respected president, we are concerned about this trend. There's been a law on this service, but we're also required as a community to hold on to people who need help so that I challenge the highest level. The government to revise the priorities reflected in their financial plans throughout the terms of the term and will have a major impact on the group we address here. Let's face it, there's a choice to run a group of disabled people in this way, what was being agreed upon here on a triple tax charge, a plan that is mainly useful to the highest income groups. There was a choice to attack the tax totals that undermine the income of a government fund without any other campaign against it. There's no touch on capital income. It was considered in a government contract that the gaps in the current tax system should be addressed that allow individuals to move to their income so that they can pay taxes of pay, such as capital gains. Here we are not talking about changing the tax law. We are simply talking about paying taxes in the current legislation. This gap enables the government to lose up to three billion dollars. every year. Most of it would flow to the rural communities that need this funding in the form of an answer. But there's nothing about this in a financial program. Nothing. These are fruit in an eyelash, and this is not understandable. Why is it not determined to change this position? There is no mention of a fair resource payment in this country, but the UN has estimated it to be only about 10% of the total extracurricular drive is collected by the government. So it is clear, more dignified, that the situation in the case of disabled people, the situation that has come up in the litigation of those in need of NPA assistance, is a result of the clear priorities of this government. How important it is that the measures such are discussed in this context! We have a choice. I challenge the highest. A government to revise its priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u98	It's Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. A respectable president. I can agree with every word they've made, but when it comes to maybe taxes here and there, whether it's for filmmaking, as we see in open debates between the minister of finance and the minister of culture, there's a whole different sound coming up here and there. Here we will discuss the MPA negotiations and important legal adjustments involved in the staff situation. But I just want to talk about it on a general level. Today, Sweden is legally legalized by user - controlled personal assistance, as the right of severely disabled people in 1994. In Denmark, this experiment was started in 1970. In Norway, experiments were started on user - controlled personal assistance in 1990, and laws on this service strategy were set up at the turn of the century. But here in Iceland, there were not even any experimental contracts made until 2012. The NPA Convention Act, this basic service which ensures freedom and independence of people. They weren't put until 2018. How's it going? Yeah, it's all coming, it's just done pretty good. Most of the time you're divorced. It's going too slow. In 2012, 22 treaties were made in the NPA. By 2014, they had reached 51. Today I understand that he, too, is somewhere around 90. A report by the work group on a global review of law on services to disabled persons with long-term supportive needs shows that last year, 44 subjects were waiting for NPA services in six rural areas, of course, in Reykjavík, where the majority of them are in need of service. The majority of rural enterprises were asked why the application was waited for how many applications had been rejected. They all answered so that the application would be postponed for lack of financial resources, and there was a lack of approval for an anti-contraction from the state. That's where the knife of the cow appears primarily. It is important to keep in mind that the implementation of these laws has been in place in a manner in which applications are adopted in advance of confirmation of 25% of the state's performance and services do not usually take place until there is confirmation of this, and this is precisely stated in the report of this work group which I mentioned as having a major problem with the lack of information about the State's counterproduction of new NA contracts per year since the Law took effect in 2018. This, of course, puts people in a bad position. In this context, I think there is good reason to conclude that the very important judgment that occurred in the province of Reykjavík a few weeks ago, on March 24, in the case of a man who had received a approved NPA contract with the company, waited and waited for more than two years to be granted to the service because of the government's premise and while waiting. Let's go to nursing homes against their will and sue the local community, demand recognition of the NFL rights, and the results were very direct, and this is just a very interesting judgment, and I encourage the Senate to cross well. In the end, they say that the rights as an application to the head of a policy should involve considerable personal and financial interests, which, in addition, are part of the human rights legalized by the law of the law and commit themselves to submit to international human rights. The County Court referred to the 76rd. The constitution. It is recommended that all who need it be guaranteed by the patient's sickness, disability, and similar incidents, as well as that the lawgiver is pointed out in the court that the lawgiver has legal requirements for the services of disabled persons with long - term support needs, set rules in line with these obligations as outlined in the constitution and in Article 11. The law. So it is only: A person has the right to this service if he has a great deal, and for the support and service needs of the provisional law that we discussed here only in return. It is only assumed that the state fund will make a contribution through the branch funds of rural society due to a certain number of contracts during 2018, 22, increase in steps, and be up to 172 funded contracts now 2022, but, as agreed, the current contracts are not less than 100, at least when there are something in the range of 809,90. The government's financial program is merely assumed to be financed by any existing contracts. It's not expected how the number of people there and here in the 1st discussed this matter. That's exactly what I talked about. A social minister who tried to get a clear answer from him as to whether the contracts would not likely grow very thoroughly during this term. This is such a huge amount of freedom and independence and welfare, and would it not be expected that they would ever be in the timeliness of this budget? Today, 172, as many as they were to be under the law. V.E.G. A minister does not trust to give any clear answers about this or to confirm anything. In effect, we have a financial program that just allows for funding the agreements that are already in force, although there are very clear provisional regulations in the law, advertised services that the State has already financed 172 agreements. If we now back into the judgment of the province of Reykjavík, there we will find it, and this is a very direct law no. 38/2018 will place certain obligations on the state funds to finance this service according to a set number of contracts and inductions over the period. This will be referred to provisional regulations, responsibilities laid on the fund, and those of us who have the authority to give the money must, of course, follow this obligation in legal terms. The County Court continues with regard to the man's plainer as to the man who was headed for the community. It is of no value to determine how the split cost between rural and state is and by what means it will be done through the County Fund. Not in law 11. The law of the law, or other legal requirements, gives the right to disabled persons for personal service to those who are used only because they are required to carry out financial contributions from government funds. As previously traced, in comment on the bill to the law, this service is designed to ensure the human rights of the disabled ones who need the most service. In view of the legal violation of the Constitution and the legal order, when such cases require strict demands to bind the administrative decision of the aforementioned conditions, a clear and unequivocal legal authority is supported. Therefore, the decision to bind is not intended and will be accepted rather than to put off the application because the requirement for the share of the state in financing is not resolved. This is just a major report, and the judgment went so far as to confirm man's right to damage the problem because of the direct cost of money thought to have been due to the criminal and illegal behavior of the community. It's been arranged, of course. At the bottom point of the sentence, it must be very interesting to observe how this development is going to develop, but if the sentence is confirmed and this is to be the final result, this must mean that the neglect of the NAP agreements that I am currently using the opportunity to address these legislation changes in this service to speak here about this in terms of this ignorance, that it will lie down, it will already have taken a terrible beating on the people who need this service, but now it must suffer more weight on the rural communities and then be added to the huge struggles that are already in the community service of the disabled people. It's something that's wrong. paritaprevir Kristrúnar Óskarsdóttir was very comfortable here earlier. It just goes on top of the situation that the state is always considering to its communities. In view of all of this, one must agree with what is presented in the Committee's Committee on Health Care Committee: A greater proportion of the items are directed to the Ministry to the increase the rate of contracts so that those who need a proper service may be obtained. This natural process has become empty if it is not also directly addressed to the government, the administrative part, the point of these classes that control, the change of course of government funds, the priorities for the welfare of the government, because this is a matter of capital. These are not just some technical questions about its implementation. Just. These are mainly questions about finance and priorities in terms of government, society's business. It's about whether we're going to finance public service, finance this vital service that gives people freedom, independence, and will change everything for whether we're going to finance our public service or to run this real welfare politics that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u99	A respectable president. I just want to get mixed up in the discussions about this adjustment which is considered with caution in the laws on how things are handled at the workplace that are particularly directed to those in need of people or to individuals with so-called MPA contracts. I may just want to start as many others have made a general point of considering this subject that we have been dealing with. In the United States it has been a grapple - between state and rural society to this issue that has been referred to as NAPA agreement and we know that the community, the case of the disabled, was moved to the rural community in 2011, following the provision of permission to raise an answer, and it was to be sufficient to run this category as necessary. But since then, there has been one thing that has led to the lack of financial resources in order to run this group, and this has given rise to an abundance of rural society in the last three years of the last 17 billion. There are 9 billion of these last year. According to this information, the rural communities are a significant target. In this group of subjects and their group of subjects, according to their information, the problem is that we are experiencing a complaint that our rural communities do not make ends meet in this regard, and of course it will take other services into question. There may have to be billions of cases, such as in Reykjavík, a group that has not been funded, and if we consider what follows, this category of law has been changed and there is a new law in 2018. It is set up in a law about serving those who are disabled with long - term needs. It has a clear identification of the duties of the local community. With the permission of the president, I wanted to read only those laws, perhaps starting first with the aims and definitions: The goal of these laws is that disabled people have the best service available at any given time to meet the specific needs of their needs. The service should be directed to disabled persons who are required to have the full - time rights as well as to provide them with the requirements for their own personal lives, and to perform services to disabled persons should be respected for their dignity, self - control, and independence according to these laws. The individual needs and circumstances, wishes and other factors that are relevant, such as gender, sex, age, ethnic background, religion, and other factors. Under the implementation of these laws, the international commitments established by the Icelandic government should be carried out, in particular, by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Then the government should ensure that disabled persons, including their interest organization, influence policies and decisions in the matter of decision making should be based on appropriate adjustments in which action is required for disabled persons to receive their rights, to go to disabled children, and to their families shall also be carried out by the United Nations Children's Covenant, by law. Now it is so that the United Nations Convention has not been introduced by the United Nations by the most well - known rural society in Iceland, and I know that several rural societies, including Smokeynestown, are in a so - called induction process. Then, in this case, 1st. that they should consult with their stakeholders, the organization of those individuals who are caring for their interests. I'd like to mention the NPA centre which is now the interest group of those who are disabled and who enjoy this service. Their account even contains the same. It is stated that this bill has had no consultation with it, and I think it's special, or it's legal that consultation should be performed. But then it just goes on in this law, with the permission of a president: In the 5th. par.: Farmers are responsible for organizing and performing services to disabled persons, including the quality of the ministry, whether given by local employees or by private employees under contract there, cr. 7. and its costs under these laws unless otherwise stated and result from other laws. In addition, rural society should have internal monitoring for the implementation of the service, including the implementation of contracts made by rural society on the services or management of the services,b. 7. Article 3 of the Treaty of the European Commission and the European Commission, the European Commission and the European Commission and the European Commission. Instead of confirmation of the local government and agreement, the Ministry of Justice shall receive confirmation which presents the issues of the disabled person to be introduced to the former. That's what it says: Members of your community dependencies Section 5. to me, absolutely unambiguous. They are to be agreed by such agreements, but then it states in these regulations for temporary purposes: In order to increase the choice of disabled persons for services and arrangements, rural society should work to introduce user-controlled personal assistance in accordance with Article 11. in the course of 20181⁄2022. During the induction process, the state's fund gives the following number of contracts for user-controlled personal assistance, which should be arranged through the rural budget, which made up a part of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the contracts based on reports from the rural community, and then busy with how many rural development initiatives are going to be put in this lead-in period from 2018 in the limit of 2022. That's where I hadn't put it together. Looks like some people to me. 700 contracts during this lead-in period, of which 172 contracts are contracts in 2022, but based on information related to this adaptation period. paritaprevir Jóhann, Páll Jóhannsson, are on the table before, the contracts are only 80 or 90, and so it is not in accordance with the commitments involved in this provision for making these agreements approved by the 2018 law, so there is still an argument about this. But I just want to draw attention to the fact that this law is temporary. What happens after 2022 C.E., but so far this has been. It is spoken of in this arrangement not how much the State's proportion is to add. It's just a set amount. It has been so that the rural population has been paying 75% and the state 25%. Then what happens after 2022? So how will this be? Then, in view of the cost-effective value for rural society, you have to pay the contracts, and you ask: In view of how expensive they can be for the rural population, they are going to contribute to some money to continue making such agreements, since it has been found that these contracts may be the best thing to do in the affairs of disabled people in Iceland. The situation is now I think, just so these songs, they're I think, that the best thing that's ever happened to disabled people in Iceland and, of course, what's really nice about these contracts is that there we're just working on the independence of these people, self-sustaining these people, making it possible for them to enjoy what the rest of us can really enjoy a normal life, can go to the movies and go out to dinner or run to a foreign country or do what they want to do at night or just do whatever they only do as the other list, just like the rest of us. It is the purpose of this law to increase the independence of these individuals, and it makes me feel beautiful in this way. But that's enough. We are now involved in the position of those taking part in dealing with the people who have the same NPA contracts as this is called. We're talking about the laws on equipment, loyalty and safety at work, the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. There are some factors that are being stated that are being changed by law or given an exception from a time of employment, which is, in fact, legalized. 11 hours rest a day. Thus, this has been in collective agreements for years, and it is considered to be illegal, has gone below eight hours to rest, unless special circumstances require that people be at their place of work, such as. It's just a fire or something. There's another sort of system laid out for the individuals who need to take advantage of the MPA agreements, and I think we can all agree that such exceptions are the right thing to do, and this change is about that in certain cases it may be allowed to allow work time to last continuously for 48 hours, but with certain exceptions I'm not going to spend any time here. But according to the review, most people are happy about this. But I may just want to grab on to the person I think is a muscle or what it says stakeholder for this group, which is the NPA centre that's been quoting special contracts I've never seen. I found special contracts between them and then this MP center that I couldn't tell how to feed. Exceptions from 11 hours of rest. But that's enough. It is a matter of rest, based on the fact that you can work for 24 hours but have a position to rest while the person is living. It woke up. But you can stand for 24 hours, but you have a chance to rest on your shift. This can only be acceptable. But this means, as has been mentioned here in a panta, that the person only fills his duties over the month. At six shifts, a normal person who works only routine work from 93/4.5. It returns 21,67 days, an average of a month, so that the person who goes to that rest will be called a shift plan. In fact, he's doing his job, his job in six days, I don't talk about it if it's gonna be 48 hours, if it happens often, that he's actually just done his work hours in three such shifts. This may be something that needs to be difficult, for this is not just a matter of establishing some arrangement that requires working so long hours. Rather, it can only drive a double - motion that can make people feel tired in their work and not doing it as well as causing personal conflicts. If people have come to a place where people may not be able to get to sleep during this period, so, of course, it's a problem, and I think I myself have a bit of a problem here, coming from the sector that has had agreements to do, to be making a lot of extras from legal rights, a contracted right that's been working on for decades like that. But I certainly have an understanding of the circumstances of those who need this service. But then I also feel a question about who is making such agreements. All we know is how this is happening on the market. It's just that. It is only an employer and employee through their unions, either the company of companies or the employee organisation, who have to make these contracts. But this is different, but somehow I feel it has to be that way. All such items are written into collective agreements, only in agreements of what sort is authorized and what is available to them. Pay it like that. So I would suggest that the NPA centre cooperate with the trade unions would settle over and try to reach some conclusion. I think the MPA Center points out that with this arrangement that is being discussed and given out, these 48-hour procedures, this right as the rest of the shifts, can be a source of encouragement, and maybe, as the MPA Center says, these rest shifts can be common because of some circumstances, travel, or some of these. But I'm not quite sure that this is how we should be encouraged. I think we always need freedom. We need to let the stakeholders on either side of the table find out because we want to find out. I think it's only natural that those who work should be able to negotiate their hours without necessarily being encouraged by the law. This should happen through collective agreements or special agreements that can be done about such things. Of course, what I just like to see is that we are on the right track with this, since we are, of course, frustrated about seeing it. This group of subjects is not well funded enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u100	And, in fact, it's become a bit dignified. On April 8, but the matter had all been settled in nine committee meetings. Borist had a number of references and received quite a few visitors to review the reviews, but this bill suggests that the terms of the public defenses be sharpened in order to define more closely when there will be any active authority that the temporary obligation of public employees to be permanent authority. It was suggested in the original bill, although moving police officers in the region directly to the site of action and danger, along with putting down the Public Defense Research Committee and its replacement a transverse system to the offline public defence level. In general, there was an agreement among clients that the bill was for improvement, and making changes would reflect how the public defenses operate in practice. At the same time, the reviewers stressed that the P.R. legislation will provide an overall review as announced by the Ministry and it will be done in extensive consultations. The Commission points to the Ministry that the proposed total legal review will take into account the indications under which this case was treated, but there was no basis for response. It is now a matter of view as to whether it is proper to define the social security level in the law rather than in the Regulation. Now. The bill was adopted, and the authority of the countryside and the public defence committees of 7th and 10 par. and the Committee calls to trial that the bill is not changing anything in the P.R. laws that concern the local government directly. The mission is to sharpen the responsibility of a police officer in the public defense committee with members of the local community. That's what I'm talking about. Count 9. The law's giving him responsibility for this mission with the local government now. The bill also discusses the assistance of foreign helpers and Norwegian cooperation on public protection, and it showed to the Commission the importance that the bill is being added to this law. It's the reception of a foreign relief team for a public defense situation. The Commission agrees with this perspective and the importance that if the process is then efficient and work can be said to act quickly and safely on the approval of the Council of the North Council in March 2020, it is recommended that the states of the Northern Nations are encouraged to follow up a proposal in something called, but the list remains. The Commission then suggests that they will be particularly aware of the report on the global re-examination of the P.P., while the Committee received a review of the government's work on P.R. and other international activities that are being carried out in terms of public protection today. The committee proposes a number of adjustments that are covered in the Commission opinion and that I am going to try to address them. It's the arrival of a police officer when the governor declares the public defense level of the 1st par. The bill. On the basis of the chief's statement in the capital area and the head of the Northland Police Department, it is suggested that when a state police officer declares a level of protection, this is done in consultation with the local sheriff if possible, and is in accordance with current practice. A review of the Ministry of Justice received by the Commission following the reviews agrees with this change. Change is now being made on the head of Iceland's Public Protection Agency. This is in accordance with the indication. It is suggested that this be referred to the head of the living room instead of the weather manager. What lay before us in the bill on a permanent legalization of a warrant was now being discussed. Of the civil duty of the public people, Section 12. So now in the bill it was suggested to legalize this obligation, and these are actually regulations that came in here into the so - called measures or the Kuwait package when it was agreed that it was such a civil duty of public employees to respond to and participate in the activities that would be necessary at risk. However, there were some debates about this law, and there were differences in viewpoints about the arrangement, one showing that it had been useful during and during the pandemic of Kuwait 90 and that the arrangement had been applied in certain cases, as well as the way the wording of the Law was all too open. The Justice Department's memo to the Committee notes that this proposal in the bill is justified. It is about the permanent legalisation of the specified warrant, and it is taken into consideration by the total legal review. The committee agrees with the Ministry and therefore contributes to Article 12. The bill will be removed, as well as the expression "Second 1 1 1." The bill will be updated accordingly. In view of the facts presented here in this process, the Commission considers the importance of working on the possible legal fixation of the law in broad agreement with key parties. The communications and access of the public defenses and operators to a secure telecommunication network were being dealt with in the 8th and 19th chapters. The bill and the Ministry of Justice's memo are included under the heading of the state police, which suggests changes to the provision of cohesion and administration regulations in the public security and public security and response access laws, secure communications networks. With a change of 12. The law. I'm going to explain the wording, so it doesn't matter. It is an emergency and security network, but it is not a public communication system and response system that has access to a change in regulations. Thirty-four. it suggests that a minister has the authority to further expand his emergency and security systems in the Regulation and suggests that the committee suggests that the committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have here, but it is covered in detail by the committee's opinion. Under this heading, write why. The members of the council here, Birggis Þórarinsson, Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinadóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Jódís Skúladóttir, Jóhann, Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdótir, Logi DominicEinarsson and our audience officer. Sigmar Guðmundsson agrees with this. I'd like to add this discussion on the P.R.S., as agreed here, if this is agreed, then this bill has been submitted before in a comparable picture. It was previously proposed to cancel the NTSB committee, and at that point it is at the last council. Then there are comments and a little debate. The NTSB did not want us to meet now, but it was only suggested that their application for a previous bill was in place, and this was a significant discussion, and we would use the opportunity to ask a client about this subject, and it would seem that most people would agree that, unfortunately, the previously unattained arrangement would be more reasonable to cancel it. And as it says, when the removal of a public defense level is lifted, there is some sort of step-by-step system. But I'm bringing this up here. This is not discussed in a committee meeting. This may be more my opinion as the chairman, reflecting on the discussion that took place here for us at the council and our role in considering our research committees. But to create after a storm here, two in December 2018, I think I remember right. At that time, a report was called, and the government responded so that a group was established and reviewed, and this was a report, and this was a discussion at the council. I think it would be okay if we wondered that in the case of larger matters, some of these procedures might be handled okay. And I just reiterate what I said here and refer to the committee's opinion that the committee agrees on the importance of a global review of public defence, the law of all. And it is also an opportunity to reflect on such research committees or views of larger events in terms of the public defence stage. And I'd also like to add this and the need to cooperate with our neighboring nations in the matter of public defense. To date, public defences may even have been localized to a particular site. Now, though, we have just experienced a global pandemic, where we were constantly in some kind of public defense. But there are so many things that can come up, influence, and influence. We'll see to it how to develop in the North countries and the emphasis that has been placed on it in the Council of the Northern Union in the North Atlantic, which I mentioned, to examine the cooperation of the people in the public defences and that I, a respected president, is a great opportunity in it, and that it is actually very important for a small army in the North Atlantic to have a good cooperation with specifically North countries, and since it is also often a matter of what to tell their equipment, infrastructure and I am to form particularly to refer to an army can often be of great importance when working with a public health situation. We know that in the last few decades, the practice of military service has been particularly responsible for all the conditions that may arise in these countries in terms of public defence. Although we are now fighting a war in Europe, something that most of us expected would break out today. But then I just want to mention it in this way that it is, it's a security matter in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u101	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and head of the General and Education Committee not only for good reporting as we often do but also for working this bill well through the committee and handling the issues of conflict and adjustment and making it possible that this bill is now a long way enough for us to complete it here during the next few days in the Senate payment, to be a volunteer first and again as a volunteer to the public defences in this country, as a response to public defence in other countries, I believe that the things in this bill are all for the good. There are certain things that are being explained to specific ones, such as public defenses. These things have been defined better, but these are things that we do today, but to set a legal frame around them. That's really important. Of course, it is only as public defenses, advice, and all that, and it is natural just of the best, and it is being updated by the names of organizations that are naturally needed for an endless amount of such work. But what I think is the biggest dot here, and I just wanted to talk about it, in part 19 g. the bill that says, with the permission of the President: The Minister is allowed to set up a Regulation on the receipt of a foreign helper, including temporary license for foreign professionals from the regulations of the legislation that delay and limit the possibility of the import of animals and equipment needed for the relief work and specialisation of temporary imports. This is what we've been fighting for in international cooperation for 17 years here some 17 years. Then there was the Norwegian rescue at a conference in Iceland, a so - called witch of war, and there came Dani, who was in charge here. I was the head of help, or what is now called a relief agency, or the United Nations Organization, in humanitarian work, and in the public speaking he called us too much? Are we too proud to ask for help and in 20 minutes through all the North countries? It provided a stage picture that was very easy to expect to happen in these countries and pointed out that the response systems of all these different northern countries could not cope with this. The Icelandic example he gave, and a conference itself was held, what would happen if a cruise ship caught on the coasts of Iceland? I can't remember what the number is now, but at that time, we had eight beds for people with burns, compared with the number of rooms in emergency departments, how they have been dropped in the past ten years. Then I believe this figure didn't raise at the time. In other words, if there's a cruise ship on Iceland's coast, we're gonna have to build a bridge with patients to Northern and neighboring countries. It's been a while. He doesn't even have to go to a cruise ship, a plane, even a large bus accident, and we can't handle it here. This is a possibility yet to occur. But what we have also warned and talked about for a very long time, if we get here a volcanic eruption or an earthquake of the degree that we have to call for international assistance, whether it comes from the states of the European Union or through the United Nations, our system has been such that the rescue forces, e.g. who would come here, destroy rescue forces, and I was now the ruler of the Icelandic international countryside, couldn't bring dogs, could not bring doctors, could not bring nurses because we can't provide them until these laws have passed to bring the meetings into the country, nurse, and medical staff to serve here. I went to Japan in 2011 when the great earthquake and tsunami struck. There, for the first time, they needed help, and they were not prepared for it. Then there is one of the first things they did after the earthquake, when the response and the tsunami had not been very small in learning from it and in the process of making the order, and all around it, how to handle it. But, of course, in Iceland we can use all the good old things to work out. Unfortunately, it won't work out if we haven't made it better. So I know that this specific paragraph is going to make a big difference when we're in a disaster, so if we had disagreed about everything else, this sentence would have had to go in because we never know when the disasters are going to happen that we need to ask for help. I also wanted to do it. Haraldsdóttir Bryndís in the case of the old law where there was no money to finance research, I thought it would be better if we were putting this rule in this fashion and like that. A senator pointed out that we here at the Generals, rather men in research reports for the major disasters they need to go to and fit our financial resources. But it is also important that, as the bill puts it, after the public defense stage, these reviews have been lifted. I remember one more time. A very large practice in Keflavík was held a review meeting. He was saying that the local businessman was standing in front of all the receivers: It was a good exercise. Thank you so much for the goodbyes. It was all a review, so we have here that meetings are written, and there are other things to say. The subject would not have gotten away with it after this, so I hope that we can agree from all categories to bring this bill forward rapidly and clearly. It's good that the biggest conflict was put on ice. It's taken out now, and I'm just encouraging the General and Education Committee to honor the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice to start the total income, total, not assessment, total review that we know we need to make. It takes time, and we need to work on it. But this is an important step in the right direction, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u102	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For good advance, Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir was very much appreciated by the Committee's opinion and coverage. This has been fascinating to me, for perhaps I did not realize how complicated this arrangement was and really important that all knots were right, so that you can act quickly. Of course, we live in a very dramatic situation, and the forces of nature can play us in tears, as we can see. But, of course, we have interfaith and technology to overcome it, and at best, we could naturally prevent disaster and disaster, and we are regularly reminded of it just by storm or mud, by volcanic eruptions, by avalanches, and by what it all is called. I can't boast or report that I now had so much knowledge or access to rescues here and abroad as well as then. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson has. But it has certainly been helpful to have members of the committee who have this knowledge and who have done it, to assist us, to point to our viewpoints, to agree with visitors, and to commenters, and one of these, of course, is the opposite. In his talk earlier, a senator mentioned that foreign assistance, equipment, and four - part creatures must be available without any stopping on the border. And I also agree with the Honourable Chairman of the Committee that we can and should rely on our next neighbor, who has more human resources, may not live next neighbor than our neighbors in Scandinavia. I agree with that. I came up here primarily to discuss these two things. Well, first of all, it seems to me that there are no great changes in nature that will follow this bill. At least it seemed to me. As if it were much more tailoring the bill of the response and of the procedure that we now perform and make it clearer and more efficient, it may be a misunderstanding. But I feel like there may have been a number of them, but almost everyone who came before the committee and sent in reviews discussed that it was very important to engage in this overall review, and I just want to agree with those who have said that there's nothing to wait for. We need to take the time to do so. But it's only natural to get started as soon as possible, but there was one huge case inside this bill that made it feel good to take out, and there's a change of 12. which pertains to the civil obligation of the public. Now I'm not trying to minimize the need for flexibility and may be necessary, resort to quick response, and in general, I think that individuals are made to do so in times that are so disturbing, and in the tragic cases, people, of course, are running in most jobs. Of course, there must be moderation and the time - to - be sources that were put in and used in Co. However, we made it possible that we were being used for the full two years. However, we all know that the epidemic had its own height and debasement, and it may not have been just as unnecessary to use it, and we received not many examples of this being a gross abuse by visitors, but it was specifically mentioned by government officials of the public union that there was a failure. It was missing, for example. There are many things that ensure that people who have to work all other forms of work, even on weekends or even beyond the evenings or as teachers further into the summer and other activities, that they are added. Of course, it's a very minor possibility that people are being improved in their work hours so that I think it's one of the things to look at and take care of in the overall review. But I restate on the fact that this is done in a very good cooperation and agreement with the public labour market. Otherwise, it won't work out, and I can just put my satisfaction back on that it was immediately created that I felt that it had to be replaced by some committees and even better that the Minister of Justice was the same as it had been put aside for now. But I'm not gonna have any more words on this bill. It's a good thing. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson encouraged us to work fast and safely. We've been working this very exactly, and we've taken some time. But it seems soon to me that guides are coming, and I don't see any indication but that it's going to be approved in a very good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u103	Mr. President. I'm going to have a few words on this bill about changing the P.R. laws that are being discussed here, and I'd like to thank them. Councilmen who spoke before me, who would especially like to thank me. paritaprevir For her work on the committee, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the chairman, agrees with me. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson said just before a man who has never worked in this public defense system but has even done so from me and, of course, discussed this in the media field of various sides. It was practical to participate in this work, both to go through all of this and also to try to learn from other members of the committee who had now, some of whom had considerable experience in working in this system. I say the same thing as the others before me. There was much discussion on this on the committee, that the whole law needed to be reviewed, passed through some form of ambiguity, and reviewed. This was made clear in the reviews and in our guests' offices at the General Education Committee, which, of course, tells you that there is a great need to do it, and I believe that there must now be no one left to do it. Surely, all of us have such opinions about how the system should be and without doubt differing viewpoints, but we all wholeheartedly agree that it must be strong, strong, efficient, legalistic, and orderful for those working in it and naturally serving the purpose of saving and helping people in need. But then, of course, it's just that everyone, when it comes to people's legal rights, to make up those who work inside the system, is assured. And then, of course, this is also the way it has been done in these discussions and here and for the commission, of course, now it is in the process that may be so legally legalized in some way that the work has been performed but not legally bound. It is sharpening the definitions of various types, and it was obvious that we do not have to have any particularly many words about it, but it is good to work up that the law has been under extreme pressure in recent years. We live in a country where our public defense system is regularly tested. We can mention the storm in December 2019. That's where our electrical power system went, well, I'm not saying, but at least... The transport system and the distribution system were seriously damaged by related damage to people and communities and businesses, a great lack of security that was created there for a time. A serious situation is the whole community law. Without electricity, a patrol ship was needed to ensure electricity for the population. At one time, one animal died. The loss of one's possessions became enormous. Of course, there was a great deal of pressure on our system in a very wide sense and, of course, almost all over the country at the same time, on which you would only rip up the news of this image, then it was in an effort to review what went wrong and try to react with reforms and it was found out that this would have to be over 100 measures to take in which a special follow-up report on all of this and this is all done to try to learn from events, which, of course, is extremely important. In this and e.g. The follow-up report showed that improvements and reserves need to be considered further. Electric energy and communication systems had to be made more reliable, defined as role and modeling of enterprises and institutions, enhanced the public defense system, coordinated with an internal network of earthlines was reported to be accelerated, and, as I mentioned by the backup force, had to be done in order to make seafronts across the north and the East, and to improve or further any measures to improve the safety of road users, airports, and seafarers. It all came together from one storm that created this public defense situation, which, in turn, refers only to the report. But this is one thing. Then, of course, we have the epidemic as another continuously far different from the public defense situation where, of course, there were a lot of pressure on the system, but perhaps in other ways, and on the other infrastructure, so that this tells us very much about what kind of country we live in where all this is extremely important, and that the system is efficient and channels completely clear and responsible, and then when we also get a threat outside as we can call the epidemic that all side in a long time, it tells us that we need to be careful and, of course, of course, very well understood by what is being done and what is done. But I was going to limit just a few of the points on this matter, and I was just going to get a word out of my Ólafsson. Gísli This point Rafn outside when bigger events may occur, and we have to look outside the country for some help. There are a number of situations that might arise that call for it, and it is completely undefeated to have some system that is blocked when such situations arise, and this was discussed with the committee, and I would like to quote only what is stated in the State Marshal's review. As suggested in the 19th C.E., it is important that laws be placed to call for foreign assistance after a disaster. A Federal Marshal works in a broad study or analysis of the abilities of Icelandic society in this regard, and this project is being carried out according to government policy on public security and security. And like a cot. Ólafsson This is an enormous point and it's good that it's taken care of, and then, of course, there's a little talk about it, and then we're in and we're talking about this and we're talking about this and we're talking about how I'm gonna be in charge of an audience on the Committee that it's important to promote normative cooperation with public security and, of course, that it's a good thing to make up for what has been said about that such cooperation, of course, is both of course, a source of strength. But then, of course, there are also things to share in such cooperation and such practices. And it's actually a little bit of a bigger picture that I wanted to say that often when we're talking about international cooperation and things like that, we're often going to have to wonder what we can learn. But we've got a little bit of vision, too. Let's keep our eyes on the same thing that we have extremely much to share, I imagine, in this as well as in many other things, and then what was only discussed here at the time. paritaprevir The story also included the story of the son of Einarsson. It's this point which is legalized on the authority of the civil obligation of public members. It was on the bill, as it was suggested in a certain way, and I just want to quote the words that were then present. 19th degree. A current law is a law on the civil duty of those aged 186.565 years to perform in a time of non-profit public defense in a district where they remain under the direction of a police officer, gives the fathering of the P.R.S. or State Marshals (S.P.P.P.P.P.P.) and it is originally proposed to a change in this provision so that a person's health status or any other person to whom he is responsible is responsible for a special risk of his safety and health should be committed by assigning him to such activities. But this was in a sense at the beginning. But, of course, the matter was discussed in the Committee and reviewed the comments and other matters, and it made it clear that there were some conflicting views on this particular point. So there was a temporary document in the law, which was useful in the epidemic, and in many ways it was used. But then, like a snooze. Einarsson Of course, it was not to mention such a law too open, and there may be some danger that there may be some kind of abuse that may also open the way that the rights and duties of people are not entirely clear because of the fact that this is, of course, as referred to here earlier, that when there are some kind of public health crisis that threatens whatever nature she is now, I think it is a little human nature that we want to put our hands and men to help and to help and to be all hands on deck and men are willing to do all this. Of course, it is good and blessed, and you really associate with that thought and possible that way yourself. Of course, the rights of a person and the limitations of a person need always be observed. Of course, these are very burdensome measures in themselves, but they may need to be handled here and there. But it has to be done well, and then the reasons for making the BSRB were the outcome of the commission, so I'm only persuading the headline, with the permission of presidents: According to the bill's report, the reasons are mainly that epidemics, comparable to code, 19 pandemic but may arise in the future, and measures may also be useful when quitting and emergency situations arise because of another kind of public defence. And then, by permission of the President, it goes on to say: Bsrb cannot agree that the open source, in turn, means the near unidentified implementation of public employees, will be legalized, such as Article 12. The bill assumes. The Alliance feels it's a lot normal to establish such a situation. In the future, it will simply be handled in a comparable way. It is by means of temporary legalization of the resource, and it was referred to as being too much involved in the recruitment relationship of public employees, and it was also stated that the source would quickly be active at the moment of danger and refer to the bill definitions and referred to as having completed nearly two years in Iceland met the criteria of being at risk time as per the bill. I'm sorry, it was over, of course, and the committee I agreed to, and then the ministry, too. But this is one of the factors that will probably be considered more closely when this overall human reexamination has been discussed here and just so I'm righting what I said, of course, it's that, of course, of course, of course, these things are linked to the thought that in a public defence, all hands should be on deck, and it should be easy to call people to work, lives under all that. But then, of course, this law must be so that there is a reasonable effective application of it without having people's own self - determination placed in it and very important that this point be examined and that they are trying to make it right with all those under unions, stakeholders, and all of it all. But then perhaps the main thing in all of this and that are, as I traced here at the outset, is certain to be the main purpose of all of this. It is to learn from experience and update the system based on the experiences of time, and this, of course, is a week - long world, both the resources available, and then, of course, big things and great things that give us the opportunity to learn from. And in that context, I'll go for a word or two. Haraldsdóttir For example, in the case of major events, when a public - defense situation becomes large or even long lasting, it is possible to prepare the system better, learn from experience and tailored to a failure, and all of it all. Of course, it's a very important thing, I think, and it's also good that the committee was able to agree on the job and all in one language on the importance of the case, and as a result it may not be the nature of the case at any political character in some political character, as it is sometimes, but, in other ways, the case may be larger and in other ways than the fact that it all goes into some political lines, there were a number of people who gave reviews about this thing listened to and called BSRB, land doctor, society, elementary school, teachers, the capital police, the police in the Northland, the Red Ocean, the Red Cross, the State Police, the Union, the United States. This, of course, tells us all about how far this system of ours is and how important it is when we consider what they come from diverse groups and finally, I don't intend to keep it any further, but I still want to use this opportunity here and thank all the people who work in this system and all the volunteers, especially those who are really part of it and are called on when there's a lot of it. If this is now over and over in a job that is being done in this business, it is absolutely priceless and here, especially when it comes, so I'll take it out of when a situation exists where a lot of volunteers could be called. Let us have so many powerful and good people who are willing to work so hard to avoid accidents and to save people in need. But I support this case with my whole mind and wrote as an officer of the hearing and as a subject as here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u104	That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I just want to thank those who have spoken up and thanked them for the spirit of the committee who was working on this matter. Thank you so much. A senator to those who do this important work for us because we are largely the public defenders, a team of responders on volunteers, and, of course, highly educated people in full - time service. I'm taking along as the head of the World Health and Education Committee... that we're going to press and call for this overall review. But I just wanted to tie it up if someone might have misunderstood here that it's not being taken out by the 19th floor. It's about civil duty at a time of danger. She's still standing. But what is being referred to is a provisional principle adopted here in Kuwait, a situation in which the civil duty of public employees to perform jobs in the interests of public defence at a time of crisis. It is possible to hide employees temporary changes in responsibilities and temporary transfer workers between work stations and public members in order to carry out high - risk tasks. The staff would keep their salary unchanged. This was a law that we set up in Kuwait, the situation, and it was a temporary law that fell out of force on January 1, 2022, and inside the bill, it was a law to make this arrangement permanent and to add to the article on civil duty. However, it has been reported, and we encourage the discussion of the need and in what way it should be referred in these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u105	3.m. That's the north side. "Berkel Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Yeah. A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the employment board for the Management Board on the 475 case of organic production. This is and the main objective of this bill is the introduction of European forms for organic production and the bioavailability of products. It aims to simplify a process of organic production, to strengthen the monitoring system for production, to promote increased animal control and responsible use of energy and natural resources and to maintain biodiversity. It then suggests that organic agrienvironment schemes will be eliminated as a whole. We were contacted by guests and envelopes, as is the case in the above mentioned opinion. This was pointed out to the Commission's discussion that immigrants from Britain had entered the transitional situation because British certifications were no longer valid for importing into Iceland. It was observed that this applies only to products transported into Britain from the Third Reich and about packed in packs containing British markings. However, a equivalence of certification would be taken to the products produced by Witnesses in the United Kingdom, but to the Commission it was necessary to complete the Regulation's implementation in Icelandic, right to promote legal harmony and active action in making contracts. Under these circumstances, a greater part and the viewpoint it puts forth in the bill's report that it is urgent to work on that Regulation as early as possible to ensure that there is no major interference with official monitoring of organic products and the introduction and export of interests will not be thrown into any confusion under this opinion. Yes, the greater part suggests that this bill will be passed on and, under the opinion of the greater portion of the literature, along with the one listed here. The members of the council, Vagn the son of Stefánsson, Berglind, Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson, Benediktsson Bengort, Helga Þórðardóttir, Ahlin the Helgi of Héðinsson, and Sverrisdóttir Sveris, the daughter of Sveri.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u106	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here for a minute and say that in here I agree with this bill. Unfortunately, when this bill went through a business committee, I was abroad, so it would have been from a professional committee if I had managed to get my consent in there. But I think it's very important that we take care of this as soon as possible. Because it's like a whisk. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir pointed out, affects the import of Britain on organic products, and it's unacceptable that we're not fixing it as soon as possible, and I hope that we just do it by making this bill go fast and good through 2nd discussion on a second vote and then through a 3rd discussed and vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u107	Mr. President. I just wanted to say a few words on this subject as discussed here, state myself in agreement, and support that there will be a gang at the council, and then I will witness here only in the papers. The main objective of the bill is to introduce the European Parliament's correct Regulation and the Council on Organic Products and the meaning of biological products and the breakdown of Council Regulation. This aim is to facilitate the development of the surveillance system, to promote an increase in animal consumption and responsible use of energy and natural resources, to maintain biodiversity. The regulations of the Regulation are to be followed by the Commission's regulations on official control carried out by law and food and the regulations for the control of food, production and seed products and, in addition to changes in the legislation on organic agrienvironmental production, are laid down on the whole, but they do not provide adequate improvement prior to and around the implementation of the Regulation. Of course, when you look through the reviews of this case and the reports and all of this, there is a major link between you and me, which is European cooperation with our relationship with Europe. One is through the EEA Convention, and the other is whether we should simply enter the relationship. And what's wrong. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is in the room and a big fan of the European Union. Then I just can't let it pass for me to mention a few words about this because we're here and there over again at the council getting a case that hangs out with this European partnership. One, through the EEA Convention. And so, of course, the underlying fact is that we are being referred to all sorts of matters that we agree with without being able to influence the way they are won, which might be possible with full involvement. And there, of course, I'm talking about the bigger picture of all of this and maybe not just from this matter or its contents. And I would like to mention that we were earlier today discussing the Western Council and increasing cooperation there, and that was, for example, there. I was talking a little about the environment and the climate and then education, and I was listening to a lot of talks that were given in that context and here. It was very interesting to watch it all. I'm going to take the liberty to quote only the report on this matter, and it says on climate matters, with the permission of a president: Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind, its scientific research, the warming of the north, twice as much as anywhere else on earth, and it continues to trace what we know. All of them. The Western countries all feel the consequences of climate change and are important for countries to play a key role in the effort to support the sustainable use of natural resources and environmental protection in the region. Increased Western cooperation in common climate interests can increase the impact of the three countries on a global scale. What I'm doing with this connection that may be considered by some maybe far-fetched is that it's the focus of this discussion, when we're talking about the Western Council and what's behind it, that co-work is to achieve certain interests and developments in it is, of course, that we're getting better results in big interests and important matters by working together, whether it's in less unity like the Western body or the larger ones in which all of Europe, all of the states, are underneath, and that's something that hangs over us every time we're talking about, by law or by rules that we're going on and often getting out of the way that's not have any effect on them. So the point of all of this is, of course, that sharing in such cooperation by cooperating with them will help you to influence your interests and achieve your success. This was the main theme of the discussion today over and over together. These words and terms come up repeatedly and at least theirs too, and that is the case, of course. We're talking about climate, refugees, economic crisis, war, democracies, and human rights. All of this is resolved by working together, and since we're dealing with this case here, I think it's only appropriate now at the beginning of the summer, while the weather is still a good thing to remind myself that Iceland's interests are better served at a table where decisions are made rather than making decisions and bringing them in without having been in the position to influence them, and I'm just going to let me go through this a little bit further because we're talking about cooperation. We're walking something out of it, for example. that the EEA contract will last forever and that the countries that are behind them will remain unchanged in that cooperation. But, of course, that is not the case. Of course, we cannot know how things develop in the large context we know, and of course we know only now from the war in Ukraine, where Russia attacks in and out there. The European Union, then, needs to keep the lines tight and to work better together, and we now have the protection and security in it. But before that, we also had all sorts of human rights matters, cooperation when it comes to solving refugees, rice, climate issues when we are dealing with democracies and human rights. That's all I'm going to allow me to keep this up, even though we're here dealing with the change in food law and the protection of food, cream and seed products, that these are just words that are always relevant, I think, in this discussion, when we're taking in a case that in some way is connected to this European partnership, whether it's through the EEA Convention or whether we're taking something to the other side. So here, yes, even though I support this matter, I just think it's good to keep in mind that we will be more effective in protecting our interests, affecting our interests by being participants in national cooperation rather than being out of the way of accepting rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u108	Well, let's face it, Mr. Honorable President. I just couldn't help but take a stand against what. Councilmen, Sigmar Guðmundsson, and he challenged me earlier when he himself ran here on a talk chair to discuss the matter, and he first announced to the European Union, which was a fine review. But I'd like to direct it to him because he went on a path that the European Union was going down and on the Western cohesion. It's friends, our relationship, the Greenlandians, the Icelanders and the Faeroes, and then I'd like to hear it at night. A senator in terms of the fact that what is in common with the Western Union, the Western partnership and the European Union, or such as acid, such as no other. But, yes, we can stand together, but my understanding has so far been in the European Union. It is as though there were mainly a toll alliance and was originally established around steel and coal in its time, so I felt like a yes. Hv. True, in his fine speech, a senator noted that this may have been a little farfetched. But to compare this, I wanted to take this discussion a little further and to see what is like between the Western cooperation and the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u109	That's an answer to a question. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator very much wanted to participate in this discussion with me, and since I was talking about being farfetched, perhaps more was in my discussion about the European Union, there may have been chapters of a bit farfetched in the context of the subject under consideration, but it can always be extended as we know. I was not trying to compare the Western Council with the European Union in any way. It's a very different phenomenon, of course, but I'd like to say that maybe it would be comparable in the way that a state would come together and work together for some interests. These interests can be incredibly vast and large, and because of what they do. The senator now mentioned, as is often said of those who see red and foam when the European Union comes up, referred to the fact that this is mainly a toll alliance, and began to recall that this has at first been about coal and steel. Then I'd like to mention that the grieving part in all of this, and the beginning, of course, is a peace alliance, which, of course, is very good to refer to today when so critical times are in Europe and all the kingdoms of the world. No, all the countries of the continent are straddling with external threats. But then, of course, it is not the least in the area of the environment and the climate on the European Union and I can assure you of the situation. That's what a senator's got to do with it. The European Union is not as theoretical as he thinks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u110	It gives the answer to the second one, who. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for a good and clear answer thereafter. It would be interesting to take the discussion a little further, since I am so, which may be too much of an interpretation. A senator says I can see a red and maybe foam process when referring to the European Union. But that's overhistory. I just think we're better served by Icelanders than we are today. Well, if the British can say anything about it when they went to Bfenit, this is what we're dealing with right now, the main focus is that products that are known as organics from the European Union come through Britain to Iceland and that's why we're doing it. It would be interesting to take the discussion then, because the list of how much and good the European Union would be quite consistent with much of what we're doing in the Western Council, even though we're not there with certain customs or vacation contracts between countries. But on the other hand, there are contracts between me and Icelanders, for example. With regard to fishing, and we've been moving out a considerable amount of meat there. But it would be interesting in this discussion to examine cooperation in so many ways that humans may not be included in the Holy European Union, and as a result, the Western Council is an excellent example of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u111	A minister says it's a bad time. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. Yeah. A respectable president. Of course, when I talk about foaming when referring to the European Union, there is more to boyhood. Of course, I know why. paritaprevir The young man Þórarinn Pétursson, who was opposed to, is now so patient that he maintains his good spirits and smiles, although much of the European Union is spoken of. But it is true. Of course, it's always a taste of interest, and it's just that I wanted to come in here right now. Of course, it is quite normal for us to take sides and to have strong opinions about these matters, just because this is an issue of interest. We are evaluating and evaluating interests between various occupations. We're discussing tolls and not customs. We're talking about our stand on various human rights matters, that we're talking about economics and all this stuff that I was talking about back here and here. Of course, we cannot agree on all these things. But perhaps I'd like to mention, which may have been why I came up here earlier and who might bring us from the illustration of the Western Council. It's that we're receiving so much of the directives and legislation and other things, and we're putting in Icelandic reality without sitting at the table as they like to say. Of course, this is important, and it may be the idea that we are not to be held dear. We're just a small nation with few people out there, and we could have little influence. It's simply not right because, of course, men make up an alliance for their interests, just as we do here in smaller units in our society, thus achieving results. And so look, I'm just trying to keep this thing up. Of course, I understand those who measure the interests of the nation only in a different way. But of course, I just have to disagree. However, since we are discussing this, it is not yet time for us to set matters straight, have informed the nation about matters, and allow them to decide for themselves whether we will be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u112	Friðriksson. A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee for the Committee to conduct a bill to correct a change in marriage law No. 31/1993 and bill include changes in various aspects of marriage law, changes in exceptions due to minimum age in order to form a marriage survey of divorce-separated legal history in divorce matters, as well as the application of projects from the Ministry to the county. The committee discussed the matter and received reviews, and they are reported on by the committee, but following the Commission's discussion, more of the General and Education Committee would like to be held in particular that the committee discussed the age of marriages, while the bill suggests that the release of authority to be made from marriage to persons less than 18 years of age. The Committee considers the change important and shows that this is a European legislation in harmony with international recommendations and changes made on law in other countries. The committee then discussed a survey on wedding terms, but the bill suggests that this survey will only be passed on to the county whether a couple owns a legal home here or not. The majority of the material considers it important that this change at the same time be emphasised on simplifying the process with electronic solutions. In addition, the committee discussed the recognition of a foreign wedding, but the bill specifically discusses recognition of marriage established abroad when an individual has not reached the age of 18. Such marriages are generally not accepted here on the country. The bill, however, gives a narrow license to compromise and accept marriage in this country by a person who was under 18 years of age at the time of the wedding. In particular, however, there is a need for unsatisfactory interests, and marriage needs to be recognized in the land of marriage, at which time the person needs to be 16 years of age. The majority of the rights to take into account the best interests of a child. By predicting a minimum age, it is clear that it is impossible for younger ones to accept that marriage can under no circumstances benefit younger ones. Then the more part shows that if individuals arrived here many years after marriage, when it has already been established, there is no basis for a person's getting married immediately if their marriage is not recognized here. The majority also claim to be necessary, if you sense the excuse, the need to accept a marriage approval will be sought to assist the individuals involved in the situation as needed and to inform them of their legal status and resources. A respectable president. The majority of the General and Education Committee suggests changes in the bill and, first, a change in digital wedding conditions aimed at implementing the interface for electronic applications. A survey of the wedding conditions provides the adjustment to the Justice Department's proposal to the Committee. The majority feels that there is an important step toward progress in digital solutions and that changes are being made by the Ministry. The majority of the cases that if the changes are approved need to consult with the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and Economic and Economic Affairs for further implementation of the certificate published and the impact of new jobs on their institutions. This change is suggested in terms of September 1, 2022. Second, a change in terms of patents on the basis of marriage is proposed under alien law to prevent marital errors. Foreign law is based on this change in legal proposals. The Committee is suggested to add a law on the bill to the adjustment of the alien law so as to determine if there will be a permit on the basis of Article 70. An alien resident may be allowed to consider whether a domestic institution was established before the couple became 18 years old, as per the Commission decision. 25. marriage law. These are proposed minor technical changes that do not require specific coverage. On the other hand, a detailed discussion on the change-in in terms of the major part and, above mentioned, suggests that the majority of the part of a universal and educational committee will be agreed with the changes outlined in the Committee. Under the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee literature, as well as at this point. The people of the assembly, Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Birgir the Þórarinsson of Ernarin, Hilda, Iða Gísladóttir, Má Marsitbil Jónsdóttir, and Skúladóttir. It should be noted that Bergþór Ólafsson and Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson were away at the desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-02.u113	Bera Páll the son of Ólafsson? Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson for the history of this case. This, of course, is an important matter for children to be assured that they are not married when they are not old enough to make decisions or age to make decisions. It is also a pleasure to see in the law, which, in fact, saw no advice on the committee's subject. It is a problem that has been taking place regarding divorce when just like that. One party lives abroad, or even in people who live here who have married here on land, for example. sexual relations between marriages, not necessarily recognized in their own country, and as a result, it is difficult to obtain divorce on something that is not already recognized. So it's a pleasure to see this, and it's important that we're working on it as a table one that comes with the bill, which actually comes directly from a question from the head. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. The only thing I would have liked to see added to this bill, where the law of marriage is being adjusted. It's that there would have been ideas that have appeared in previous councils, I think exactly what they were doing. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson of a divorce without a chance. It is this way today that here, the people first given divorce to table and so legal separation except that one party, yes, express themselves on adultery, and it seems quite common that people just admit to themselves, whether they really have a violation or not, because they have made it more rapid when people agree that they don't understand with children or they've already negotiated what children are like. So it is my hope that we will soon consider adjusting the limit of the current law because I believe it is a right thing for people to break apart faster than the current law assumes. But by the way, I just thank the Honorable General and Education Committee for a good job.
