ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Booths that the Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, 9th. That's the north side. "Be absent in the near future. A letter has also been received from the chairman of Pirata's House of Congress about the fact that Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, 6th, was born. Smoke. So, can't attend a conference next time. They've received letters from 13th. We're out of Suðvest. "Rafn Ólafsson, 8th and 8th. Witchest. "Bergþór the son of Ólason, that they may be absent in the near future. Finally, a letter has been received from the chairman of the Central Party for the failure of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, to be in the next session. So today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the National Frontier List. "Helgi Héðinsson, 1st Lipper on Pirata, Smoke. So, Auður Svansson, 1st Lipper on Pirata, Southvest. " Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir, 1 strategist of the Central Party in Norway. " Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and 2nd strategist of the Middle Party in Northeast. "Griggrim Sigmundsson, but the 1st relief on the list has announced ahead of us. Auður Svansson, Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir, Sigmundsson, and Þorgrímur, Sigurður Pálr.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u2	The Helgi son of Héðinsson's letter has been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed. I'd like to ask the senator to sign the oath.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u3	The Helgi Héðinsson of Hélinsson has signed a vow to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u4	The President has received a letter from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 488, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Þórsdóttir; request for cover. 603, for the transfer to Ukraine, from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornólfjörðurdóttir and on the icicle. 897, on the effects of the altered environment, from the Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where the request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition. 896, of the evictions of an apartment house, of the Álildi Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. A letter has been received from the Ministry of Education and Children where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the application of the letter. 847, on a high school educational team from Jana Jara Gísladóttir. Finally, a letter from the health secretary has been received where the request is made to give the written answers to the following questions: In the press. 772, for an acceptable waiting period for health care, from the Mist Mitst Einarsdóttir; tsk. 846, for the treatment of children, from Jana Jara Gísladóttir; threshing. 858, for the lack of doctors and other health care professionals in the country, from Bjarni Jónsson; and for the threshing floor. 882, over a number of actions due to atypical gender characteristics, and shrivel. 9.0, both of Daníel the son of E. Arnarsson, for mental health care of prisoners.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u5	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence for the duration of a conference is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer than any any other council dictates. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] They ask for votes and ask for unprepared queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u6	The president wants to draw attention to the fact that the non-prepared period of inquiry can last longer than the Senate allows for up to six queries to come in. To answer, Minister of Food, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Social and Employment Ministers, Justice Minister, Environment, Energy and Climate Administration and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u7	A respectable president. The government's budget was sentenced at every judgment level to pay the worst place in the country to reduce the quality of the land's population. V.E.G. The minister here confirmed in unsubstantiated inquiries that the government was going to pay only four years back. The state has been robbing a special supply of this group for 13 years. We're just gonna give you four years, but we're gonna rob you of your legal rights for nine years. If you break law and you have a legal act of vital importance for the people of Iceland, people who don't even have food and who don't survive their legal rights - I'm asking the secretary again: shouldn't this illegal robbery be returned? Has not the government changed its mind and decided to comply with the law and fully pay this illegal economic violence to the worst of the people? At that time, a pensioner who has taken out his special kickback has experienced a degree of impairment, a chain-mortem decline, so that the individual has fallen into dissipation. Imagine promising someone that he can take out his special property without impairment, but make it so complicated that a large group is affected, the fact that everything is taken away. As a result, tax records fall on sick people, they calculate their income, and everything is reduced in full measure. It also has a chain effect on many institutions, and they will not be corrected or paid back. Is it surprising that anxiety, depression, stress, sleeplessness are in the hands of this group under government? The pressures are close to the health of these people. So I ask the highest. Minister: Are these enemies of this government? Are these the big banks, the worst set people in Iceland? Are you really going to continue to treat these people that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u8	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. I'd like to first say about the judgment that I immediately responded by a court order change the next day or two days after he fell so that he would come for correction now, and I received reports from a insurance agency this morning that they are working on the correction until they were expecting it, which is very good. I have also said so in this public address, asking why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson, that I am pleased with this decision of the Supreme Court. It is a step in righteousness for those mentioned among the hands of the Icelandic community, and I keep my declaration. In terms of pay back in time, we simply have the law in our country that it is for four years, that is, four years'expiration, and we will work as fast as we can to get paid to that people now. Hv. A senator also introduced a case that has been in the media, and in fact, he is also an inquiry for a written answer in my office since then. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, who is involved in a special property savings and marketing of him, the source of the material was made as one of the Covid Unemployable and should not interfere with improvements. It hasn't worked because there wasn't a right to tax returns for everyone from the tax system, based on information from pensions and stakeholders, and it's very unfortunate. However, the organization has done what it can, and it will continue to push this decision to be corrected. But the tax needs to look at these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm not a law-trained man, but he said, with law, only four years can be paid back. By law. But the law was broken. The law was broken 13 years back. Can it? I'm just asking. If someone in a town breaks off and he says, " It's only four years that can be taken, paid, or paid, or something, four years back, you think he can get away with it? ' He'll have to return all the loot. The government fund is to return all the spoils. These are the most advanced people in the country who hardly have food, with the largest income you can imagine. That's taken from it for 13 years. I can't see that the government can defend itself on a four-year rule because if it's 13 years of violation, it's time to pay 13 years. There is nothing else that can stand. And I ask the minister, Will he see to it, and fight that these people may receive their rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u10	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you again. A senator's inquiry. As I have reported here in this symposium and elsewhere, we are looking to pay four years back. I have explained why it is and have little to add. But I'd like to take a little deeper thought about what has to do with my special savings, as a boy. A senator came in too. It is of great importance to me that the people who were affected because they were not correctly enrolled in tax returns will be helped to get back what they have the right to receive back. I've already contacted, or I've already been in charge of the Ministry of finance, and I've asked for information on the position of the implementation of this strategy. So hopefully we can let this all be corrected as soon as possible for the offended ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u11	Mr. President. A seabed road is closely related to the history and soul of the nation of Israel. Fishing and fishing through the centuries have been our most important business and have kept the country built. Many things are done in the fishing field today, but they still contain deep - seated distrust and conflict. Not without reason. The code system and breakfast distribution are closed. Recent treatment is almost impossible, and it is delayed, preferably in families or in few hands. It's a big pile of gold. Their hibernation has a sedative effect. Few people become too powerful in society and reach out in many business affairs with investments outside the article. The expenditures for the use of the national resources are far too low. There is no doubt that the nation will not get a righteous share in it. Now that the public needs to carry the cost of higher inflation with increasing prices on groceries, higher housing prices, higher rent rates, and higher interest on loans, it is reasonable to ask why governments do not see to it that a larger proportion of the money from the resource goes into the state's budget and from there to pay for counterweight measures to settle the game. Ten of the largest types are more than half of the quatans and 20 the largest have more than 70% of the quatane. Added to this is the possession of these developers in other preparations. The legal articles on linked parties in the fish - control laws are so vague that a fishing facility is impossible to monitor with effective control of harmful compression in this article. So I want to ask the highest. A minister may not agree with the fact that there is bad evolution. Very much. A minister offers a bill for changes in laws that counteract compression in this article?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In fact, I believe that that's what happened. One member of the body, which is this great compression of resources and thus wealth in the country, is the second reason for the deep - seated problem in the community, distrust of this key work, while the other major reason is probably the one that makes people feel that they are not seeing reasonable gains come into a common fund. I think that's the two main reasons. I've looked especially at things as they were. A senator brings up the matter of convergence and relations. I think it's very important to dig in on these matters and go to the work that needs to be done, whether it ends with a bill or another, because it's a lesion in this system that's going to have to be managed by obtaining enough information in this subject. Besides, I'd like to mention, and I know that why. A senator knows this, because now it's about to start a large committee that's going to go into the stitches on all these matters, and I've requested a nominee in it, that it might also cause us to take special note of how long it will be from the time when the basic fishing fee will take place until it is angry. I'll specifically mention them to form the up-to-date fleet, like now when we're seeing a lot of hairy forces, but I'll expect it to be just a trust fund in two years. That is one of the things we need to look to too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u13	Mr. President. I realize that it's the best I can do. The government does not want to promote recruitment by emissary or attempt to get higher hunting costs. On the other hand, they watch the export market, where a pound of cod is rented at 300 k. At the same time, the fishing fee is for a kilometer of cod over 17 bars. That'll run into state funds. I understand the highest. A minister may feel that more data and reports need to be collected. So I would like to ask if the reports and data available aren't enough. Is that not helpful? Is a report of the EEA's work on improved fish control of the resources submitted at the end of 2019 not helpful? It responds to indications in the Directorate of Government Review for monitoring the integration of resources. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that the laws need to be revised immediately in the spirit proposed by the Project Management Board, and do not have to wait for more reports to counteract harmful compression in this article?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u14	A respectable president. It's working as hard as it was. A senator certainly refers to him. In fact, I count, and I agree with that word each. A senator, that there is no need for a large report, there is an enormous amount of information already available, and a considerable amount of what is already to be built on. I'm not a spokesman for the fact that we wait until the end of this terms to bring in bills to make up for something that obviously can be improved without going ahead of some tremendous amount of work. So I agree with you. A senator on this matter. And because I was referring to the profits of making companies, and I think that's also important in this discussion, it's that two company developers have given up that their profits have been on another tens of billions of dollars last year. According to them, most historically the price of fur products is last year, and good for other species and big hairy matter. As fishing costs work, this good repertoire will deliver more for the next year and the next year. However, in my opinion it is necessary to look more closely to make sure that these incomes can be stored up more fully, as it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u15	President. A recent report by the National Reexamination of Mental Health Institutes in Iceland reports that people in mental - health disability or disability have increased by 30% in 2010-2020. At the same time, however, population growth was only 15%. The cost of social insurance on account of mental illness has become 26.6 billion dollars. The annual and annual cost of mental - health care is only 12.9 billion annually. It is easy to see that this is the least disturbing development. Specific mental health care policies and measures were set up for the 2016/2020 season. It was the first phase of Iceland's mental health. The focus of the policy was particularly the growth of basic environmental services, prevention and early intervention. However, the above report shows that the effectiveness of the strategy has not yet been formally assessed and that follow-up has not been meaningful and overall has not been successful in considering the fact that most of the problems it was supposed to solve are still there. The Ministry of Health is developing a new program of action in connection with government vision of mental health. According to her report, it is extremely important that goals be clearly defined, that there will be a realistic protocol for action, and that the responsibilities of oversight and monitoring will be clearly replaced. The State Review Report gives the old action programme a clear drop score worth taking seriously. So I want to ask the highest. Minister, in view of this unscrupulous report, the progress of the work on the design of the new plan and when he expects it to be ready. Then I would also like to ask how he intends to ensure that the plan will be followed so that we will not be left alone after six years of the same situation as we see today, that there were no or little progress in the seminary in spite of the plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u16	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir for these extensive questions that refer to the report of the Kingdom Accounting that I'm going to say right here and now and when it's pretty good and will be of use to us. You're absolutely right. A senator went over, for the first time 2016, was submitted here some sort of convergence in the seminary. Then we will recall that we were not too much involved in this important matter. It was 1970 and something that the Kiwanis Club had that phrase, "Let's not forget the mentally ill." Then, not too much time. It is the right thing to say in the National Reexamination report, and there is something we must consider, that there is no consistent information available. And why? Yes, we're not good enough to collect the right data and analyze things. However, we have done many things very well in a short period of time. It is true that before the council, I have proposed a proposal for a vision of mental health to 2030, a course I'm waiting for the council to take into consideration, and at the same time, an action plan is being made. I am stressing that it will not be finished until the council has put its guard on these existing policies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u17	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The health minister for the answer. I must say, though, that I am not convinced that changes will occur. The situation is that there are waiting for a mental - health service wherever you can see it, and when you follow a previous plan of action, it was evident that the funding or will of the then health minister was not there. How, then, do we know that the ultimate? Health Minister will do whatever he can to ensure financing of a completely financing case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Some of the more money, more than 2 billion, has been put into the case today, which was very well done by my predecessor, and it was also put in motion by mental - health teams throughout the country, so it was done more during the last term than often before. I promise you, here I will follow it very closely. The evidence in the existing financial program gives evidence that we follow it. I'm sure we can always do better and put more in the group. Good things are happening about the waiting lists, but it is also presented in this fine report. A senator, a state accountant's report, points out that we also need to coordinate the list of waitings. As with any other health - care organization where we have a waiting list, there are too many people on the list in many places. In order to be able to work more effectively, and this draws the State accountant to include: Come on, we need to analyze this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u19	A respectable president. Much has been done in the past few weeks, as we know, elections, bankers, and other matters, and as a result, many of the important matters have not been discussed in the community to form this report mentioned earlier, the Kingdom Review Report on Mental Health. It's been too little of a conversation. This is a careful assessment, but the results are sadly striking and unsupervising testimony to the work of this government in behalf of the large population of mental illness. In short, the conclusion is that there is a degree of discrimination in the mental - health system, and not everyone sits at the same table. Access to services is poor, for example, due to farms, economics, and a type of mental disorder. So we're in that place, with Icelanders, that sick people are discriminated against, and this discrimination is built into the mental health system, says the report. So the system guarantees our people discrimination. It doesn't guarantee equality. It guarantees discrimination. I'm going to tell you that this is completely unacceptable, and the report confirmed that there is little basis for the claims of the states in leading to the last election that the state of mind has been put first. There is also the fact that, contrary to the repeated claims of the administrations, donations to mental health are shamefully low. The contribution of health - care providers to health care is about 30% of the total, but the financial contributions to health - care professionals are only 5% of the total. In the end of the last election, especially by the VG, the figures in the report tell the correct and true story, and it is that our health system is so subsidized in the fifth year of this government that it can be said that it is absolutely quiet in this category. So I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Ministers, as soon as I encourage the locals, all members, and the media to study the subject of this black report, whether it is not a review of the categories that have taken over the past few years that the situation is so severe, so grave, as the report shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir - Sigmur Guðmundsson. First thing I want to say about financing is that when we come to the conclusion that it's subfunding, it's the first thing to realize how much money goes to this suit. It's just that it's just never been in the way. That's why I welcome this report. This is the first report on a comprehensive approach to what goes on in the seminary. There's something else. A member of this team makes this statement very clear, but it's this overlap that we often discuss and refer to as gray areas. There are a number of things we're doing in the schools, in our communities, in the topic areas, and in the case of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Before we begin to state whether we're underraising or if we're doing enough - and most likely we're not doing enough because I think that's all we can say, what's missing - we'll have to figure things out. This is also stated in a report published by the National Reconnaissance. What I like about it is that it highlights where these gray areas lie. What I do most about myself and the Ministry in this case is that the course we set in last place - we weren't too good enough to do it, and then I'm referring to the strategy where we were responsible, which we should do when we're applying policy, i.e. following up the items and setting up the scales. Do I want to do more in this group of subjects and follow through on what has been blessedly started? ' I believe that there have been, however, something done in recent years and more than before, and we have to do much better. That's all I can say. But, yes, I'd like to extend one thing here that I feel is standing in a new direction that hopefully I'll be able to measure soon, and that's what's been called on, which is plaguing in broad consultation areas to control the seminary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that's the perfect key right there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u21	A respectable president. That's the answer from the highest. A minister might not have surprised you. However, the answer I asked has not been answered. Such reports and reviews are being made at regular intervals, and the conclusion remains that these issues are not in order. This must be true of the groups that have ruled the land in order to form almost uninterrupted since 2013. And because we talked about gray areas, it may be good to mention what is stated in the report, many of them are known, but we are having problems cutting them down. It says, under the permission of a president: ▪ The reason for this to be observed can include Based on the differences between state and rural responsibilities and the disproportionate [other] responsibilities] between health care services levels. It is inconceivable that these issues remain unsolved for years and that governments must make it difficult for them to eliminate gray areas. I wondered: " Why has this case remained unsolved for years when much of it has been known, as the report shows? I don't understand that. And since this has not been fixed after all this time, and in the long run, do I quote these groups sitting at the government table, why would the people of the country be able to trust that this will be over their heads fixed? How many years does it take?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. Maybe you're right. A senator here says that he has not received a clear answer to the fact that this report is a judgment against this government over what we have done in mental health. I can tell you that I don't appreciate it. But I think it's very good, and it gives us reason to get better on a lot of issues, including. The gray areas in this, plan more carefully and follow more closely the procedures we plan. But I think there's quite a reason here, a respectable president, to remember what has been done only during the past few years of this government. There's more money in there already. There is a multidisciplinary mental - health service in the medical profession. That assignment was given to 800 million special ones. A total of more than 2 billion have been put in place. in a multidisciplinary adult mental - health team, a special mental - health team for prisoners whom we have now extended. They're taking over these lists and going over the mental centre of children and uniting these classes in order to get a better grip on the overlap. [[The president calls.]] I could count for a long time and we'll keep doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u23	V.E.G. President. In recent years there has been an inexhaustible situation in the fishing management of a gray patch. It has been used in an Olympic fishing program, although it has been tried to control it with days in relation to Edro's counseling. In 2020, the catch was so great that when those who later caught fish, mostly in Western lands, had little to catch, and some had little to do with fishing. That was a warning for the person who stands before the 2020 New Year's Eve. In the following year, a seafaring minister recommended a bill to increase his awareness of gray escapes. That bill could not be discussed on a professional committee for incomprehensible reasons, and he lived up to it. This year, there is advice on 7,000 tons, but the Ministry has published 25 days to fish in spite of the growth of days as a result of improving sales practices. It's heading for one third of Edro's advisers to fish this year and that some 2,500 tons will remain unscheduled. So I ask a minister: Why were the requests of the producers asking for more days when it became clear that sales ratings were improving and the production was lacking in raw materials? Are there any problems to be expected with the fishing board? It can be expected to reach the highest level. Ministers respond to this situation regarding the lack of raw materials we see?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the senator's case shows that the government on a gray patch is inexplicably fixed, as the situation is now, and we have discussed this before in the conference hall. But, in fact, fishing is not the biggest challenge in this matter but, rather, the real challenge. There are a lot of codfish in certain areas and seasons but also a lot of birds and seals. A key element is that the article is split into share positions. Specific items are involved and there is the importance of foreseeability, reduced deportation, etc., efficiency and compression, as we know. But there is also a group of those who speak against involvement and speak of low standards of living, i.e. that the license is inexpensive compared to a catch that is related to the expectations of survival. As for gray - free fishing, certain traditions exist, and sharing results in the fear of compression. This is part of the discussion. When I get to the Food Department or the Ministry, there's certainly a bill worth it. A senator refers to him. But I thought that there was a reason to take part in the gray patch from the bill because there was not enough time to try to get more balanced in the discussion. However, it is absolutely clear that this situation must be resolved before the next council and that it is being won. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up because we should not ignore the temptation to resolve matters in some way. But the fact that the article is very split is not simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u25	V.E.G. President. I thank the secretary for the answer, but I must refuse that this article was split in this because the gray-flogging sea had come here with a signature, one or two years ago, for the Minister of Ministers to want to change, and there was much more of the people involved in this hunt. It's in the Union of small-boat owners that this meant split up is, and it's those who don't go through with gray freaks against it. That's the fact of the matter and there's a problem with how they deal with it, so I'll say it just as it is. It is true that codfish is at the beginning of the boats, and it is natural for them to know how to deal with them by force. I completely agree that these matters need to be handled. But the fishing method today is impossible. Why do I first ask the minister about the situation as it is today: Will the Minister take some action for a short time? [[The president calls.]] And how does the minister envision this in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u26	A respectable president. Because of what I mentioned here in my first answer that there's a disagreement in this article, of course, it's just a fact. I've been in contact with very many people in this area, and there are certainly some opinions in the group. The fact is that there is not one voice among the individuals who hunt. But it doesn't change that I've had very many meetings and really listen to the voices that come out there. I agree with those who stress the need to get organized on this fishing and on this system. The exact conclusion will be made on my Constitution for the next council. I expect a bill of good and material coverage on the job board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u27	A respectable president. In the government covenant, the objective is to ensure proper service for older people, whether for supportive care or for health care, on grounds of their own, at the right stage of service, and at an appropriate time. As was the case in the case of children during the last term, the decision was to start work on a full reexamination of services to older people. That assignment was effective even if there is still something left, but it is necessary and wise to make good use of the learning and experience that developed in that work. It is easier for older ones to live as far as home, with all the support and all the services needed, the service that our older people can trust. Social isolation and loneliness of older people are affected by health risks. The need for more variety of living and service routes is also urgent. That's even where I own it. for flexible daily training, where technology and innovation will improve the ministry. This is a multi-disciplinary cooperation between social and health services, a matter of great importance to us, but it is important to ensure adequate service for this least growing group of people who are involved in investing in people. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on how that work works and what the situation is on the job in an overall review of services to older people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator here gives a very important case, which is in the government covenant. We know that the number of older people in the coming years will increase very much and that in 2040 there will probably be about 20% of the population. That is why it is very important that we grasp this overall review of services to older people. I want us to use a decade of healthy aging now in order to reach this and take important steps during this terms in that direction. Hv. A senator did well to review the points involved in the global reexamination, including that we are ensuring suitable services for older people, whether they are supportive services or medical services, which would mean the integration of social services and, in some cases, social services. Home nurse. Clearly, this requires a cross-cutting cooperation between social and health advice. That's why we have the highest. The health minister of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson decided to appoint a collective project management, which hopefully can begin at the end of the month. We're waiting for our last appointment. In it will represent our council, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, rural society and the older citizens' Union. The role of this project must lead them to important employment. We are hoping to bring in a plan of action at some point in the fall by action that will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that a health minister will cooperate with him in this, since this series of issues has to do with each of these challenges. Actions in the direction that the double income market for older people was approved at the end of 2021, with the payoff for employment at 100,000 dollars. In 200,000 K. per month. I'd like to ask a secretary if he was involved in an increase in the activities of older persons, as recently as it has been, in which professions have become, and in the case of gender.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u30	V.E.G. President. The information that lays. A senator asks me if I'm not on rhythms, and I don't know if they've been compiled. But I'll look into it, and it might also be an excellent subject for a written answer. But I think it's very important that this step has been taken, even though there's only one of the many that we have to look into in the affairs of older people, and hopefully it will bring back the growing business of older people that I think are important to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u31	Mr. President. During my first few weeks here at council, I spent a lot of time arguing that the National Institute of Iceland refused to hand over evidence to the council to waive citizens' applications. The data we requested in December were finally delivered after much child rearing and very late. I would like to inform the president that this situation has come up in exactly the same way. Now, for the second time in this session, the Allied Council is about to issue their citizenship applications and Foreign Institutes under cover of top cover. Minister of Justice, refusing to hand over the evidence legally to the council. Again and again, I request the help of a respectable president to take care of the Generals' respect and to explain to the executive authority that it is the Council who is directing his work rather than the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice and not Foreign Institute. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u32	Mr. President. The status of patients with substance disorders has long been discussed and for some reason in a far different direction from that of other patients in the medical system. It has long been called upon for policies in the seminary, and it is urgent to look to the future. In this country, alcohol and drug therapy are a major source of free association, but the service is largely funded by the government. A year ago, former health minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, started a full - time job on the services, ideologies, content, and health benefits of individuals with substance diseases. This work is extremely important, especially in view of the delicate situation in which this patient group is in relation to the service provider. It is particularly important that women, young people, people of a foreign background, queer people, and other vulnerable groups be identified and special policies are made based on the different needs of the patient groups. Serious cases have been developed within the Icelandic treatment system that concern the safety of patients as well as the handling of public funds. It is important that the patient's safety is ensured, that the service is always based on the latest studies performed by the competent employer and that the public capital is arranged in a way that provides the best and most secure service. Therefore, I would like to direct the following questions to the HCP regarding the overall medical care of individuals with substance disorders: 1st What is the total number of health care programs set out on May 11, 2021? 2. Does a minister believe that there is a sufficient variety of treatment options? 3. What is the position of a minister regarding the discharge of health care from a free organization? 4. Who's the Minister's policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u33	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir has asked me questions about this important matter party, about health care for individuals with substance diseases. Regarding the first question, I would like to say: It is time for total health care to be taken care of by individuals with substance diseases. The project was started on May 11, 2021, and it's time, as I say. However, the main purpose of this total population is to address the current course of public service in the first, second and third degree health care and underlying ideologies as well as content, effectiveness and quality of services for people with substance diseases. There really is the basis for everything else that followed, how we conduct these health care in our country. The data collection of this assessment is very extensive and implementation and development has been delayed, largely because of the pressures of the pandemic and because of other urgent projects of the Ministry. It is estimated that the workout and reports will end this summer. I take my heart to the importance of this assignment. Senator. Secondly, why? A senator whether a minister feels that there is a sufficient amount of treatment available. I think this whole thing helps us answer this much better, and I reiterate that it is timely. Bioavailability and consumption patterns for addictions are rapid changes as we know and treatment should take into account these changes. It is necessary to develop and revise treatments and services. In Iceland, services for individuals with drug diseases are provided in medical institutions, such as at the clinic, the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, and they are free associates. As in other services, a tradition has long been established that free organizations often begin earlier. We were having mental illness here and there's a free community organization like the U.S.A. and the Joint Help and the Red Cross of Iceland that operates in the capital area, in Rhinetown, and in Akureyri, where people who use drugs can approach what we call destructive service. Blessedly, I feel that I have made a great improvement in that area. We are, in relation to a case that I didn't undo a long time ago, to put a little tighter on destructive resources, what we're doing in that field, and I'll support them. There are a number of treatment options available in Iceland, but there is evidence that there is a need for a complete and integrated health care professional at all levels. I'm afraid this has been too fragile. There is indeed a need for collective and integrated health care. Therefore, this review is not only urgent but absolutely timely. In June 2020, the surgeon general's office published the first report, which included the first report. it is noted that the World Health Organization and the United Nations have established standards for treatment of substance abuse. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that treatment is required to include a community-based service that includes peripheral groups, screening, short intervention, walking and hospitalisation, medical and psychosocial resources, long-term housing, rehabilitation and supportive person prior to recovery. Once again, because we were discussing mental health during an unprepared period of inquiry, we must at the same time put our arms around this overlap. I'll have to go back to the rest of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for calling attention to this case and the highest. Minister for answering here. I'm very welcome to the report he's referring to. The need for a complete and integrated ministry, when it comes to addiction, is screaming, and has served for quite a long time. We have made each budget for the amount of money to the U.S., Hil surgeryhouses, or others who do such work. It just doesn't work any more. I had a conversation with the highest. Minister on the budget this morning. We are always making temporary donations. I am absolutely convinced that the free partners working in this sector are doing good and very important things for society. But I am at the same time absolutely convinced that the government that buys this service must have a clear policy on the type of service being performed and on what basis it is granted. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister on it. We have a large social problem that involves our addiction, and we need to find practical solutions to combat it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir for moving this case and the highest. Minister for the answer before. This is a big matter to my heart, and this is a very important matter, especially since the problem and cost are so seriously underestimated and hidden in many parts of the community. I'm of the opinion, so I'm moving on one of the things being asked about, that it's very good for a free group, and others, other than state or rural society to have therapeutics. However, the basis of the agreement and the surveillance of the state and the requirements of being completely waste and following closely. I have also sometimes mentioned that when people are finally ready to be treated, they may only be for a short time, and there is nothing that is ready to be determined by some inborn prejudice. Therefore, it may be advisable to increase the number of treatment options and to have a variety of them. Then we might reach out to more at the short time the window is open, i.e. when people want help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u36	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this discussion and for the question of the senator and for what the Minister's office presented, and for an upcoming report. I just want to grab the ball from the last speaker to see that it could be more complicated, and I've spoken a lot about it during the last session and during the last term. I've been worried about the movies. There are 500,800 people in the waiting lists year after year, and this window is as dog. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson came in earlier, when the drug addict is ready to go to therapy, it is very low. Therefore, the treatment needs to be open and varied, all over the world. On that, I'd put a lot of emphasis on it and I've been doing it for a long time. Whether this is supposed to be a free partnership or a state force - I think it should be mixed up. Both have been very good, and cooperation between state and society has been pretty good over the years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u37	A respectable president. I agree that this is a very important discussion here. I think that we need to bear in mind that our options need to be as varied as possible, and there are different options that work for different individuals, so it is about having enough resources, and it is not just one Kingdom route that we decide to go because we are as different as many of us. We need to consider that, and then I don't feel that the business form is most important. Rather, those who take the initiative and also those who may do this in the most efficient and practical way get the opportunity to do so, although they are not public employees. Then we need to create a system and admit that all methods cannot be proved well because, somewhere, the methods have to be started before they become fully tested. We need to be open to having a variety of resources, although not all of them have become practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u38	Madam President. I'm here to thank you for this discussion and agree with those who have said that we need policy-making, collective policy of this category and that it must be absolutely clear which government is going to go to drug defense and how drug treatment is supposed to be in Iceland. For this reason, I want to use this opportunity and to emphasize the need to consider the different needs of different groups. Women and men do not have the same needs for treatment, borderline groups still others. We know that this has been pointed out for years. Over the past decade, Robert has pointed to the needs of women because of a drug problem, and they are often very different from others. We must rely on new methods, facts, and research, and we must also face the fact that more is good than the 12 - step system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u39	A respectable president. I would like to thank a person for taking this matter on the program, for, of course, this is very important. Not long ago, we didn't have any treatments in Iceland for people who were dealing with drug problems. Rather, they just began to go to America and treat them there and then come home with this knowledge, enthusiasm that burned up the subject, and set up the treatments we have today and stand out best. I just want to thank them for pioneering. But, of course, it's possible to develop everything, and we're supposed to skim off a habit. I see, for example. nothing, therefore, to stand out that a free group is in the process of curing treatment. I'd rather call this a public society because they are. Of course, the government must decide which service to perform and then trust these agents to provide it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u40	Madam President. It also plays many aspects of how people can make good use of their treatments. I'd like to ask the minister if we could discuss some medical benefits with individuals with substance diseases without doing so with criminal drug abuse. I ask if a minister thinks that over a head it is practical to continue punishing people, but at the same time to revise and promote services to people who are working precisely toward what the State is punishing them for drugs, drugs, and drugs. You see, Madam President, I'm concerned about how long the government has been concerned with finishing this case since it was taken care of here in a Senate room two or three years ago. Where is the criminal charge that people who trust in treatment so desperately need?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u41	President. Abrush is vital, and we need to apply ourselves to it. In many cases, people have not been allowed, or have not been allowed to continue, because they are not sober and are naturally not consistent with loss of ability. Even if a person is still on drugs, it must also be stressed to offer him mental - health aid. It's not like these are two different things. Coping with mental problems and drug abuse are tasks that you need to deal with at the same time. You cannot just stop eating and then start working on your mental disorder or vice versa. Much more should be considered about the best way to reduce injury and the best use of experienced resources. And they exist if they are willing to be introduced in Iceland. There are a lot of cool, well-founded data with a sense of damage in mind. Of course, there is a need to meet the person where he is, but careful research should always be the first option.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to take a call for it, when considering different treatment forms and different needs of groups, that it will not be avoided to look at ideologies in the matter of immediate treatment and drying up or if there are any intermediary points, whether the ideologies that have been accepted, which in the past few years have become increasingly established, that there should be interphases and should not be punished for obedience in these matters, that they are very careful and in reality not a good method. In this context, I just want to say that I miss a little total policy on the part of the government in these matters. There are fine groups of men here to look at these from different styles, which I have good confidence in. But I feel somehow that this is only a push of this ball ahead of me because of political inactivity to handle it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u43	Madam President. I am sincerely glad that I have been present for the discussion. This is a group of paintings that affect all of us. It's health care, and I have so many things to say and so few seconds to get it out of me. I would like to say at the outset that not only did I grow up in the alcoholic home of Gunnar for the first six years of my life but I have been a user, a resident, a paid worker, and a volunteer in the Icelandic treatment system. There's been a lot of things here. I would like to point out that we are not allowed in this discussion, any more than when we are talking about other health care providers, just getting into our emotions. We all have relatives who have been given a superior service in the United States. It does not change that the clinical outcome must be monitored, either through capital, waiting, services, administration. This must be under government supervision. I'm often the kind of person to be something special against the U.S., which I'm not. There I think there's a lot of experience and knowledge, but I'm not going to agree with it. A senator who said it was so new. These have become decades of therapeutic practice. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, if we should adopt the same methodology for childhood medicine, aging, and cancer, just allow it to hang and then, when we get through the experience, we can start using critical clinical methods. Finally, I'd like to encourage the Minister to action. This can't be political. This is not to be based on guru ideologies, 12 stitches of organizations, or mushroom people, as we have seen in recent discussions. [[The president calls.]] This must be professional, under supervision, and we need to do better, have more options and more money. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u44	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Skúladóttir It might have been appropriate for Jodidis Jódís's final words to have been fulfilled. They were a very good, dignified president, and I also thank those who participated in this important discussion. I had answered the first two questions. Question three turned to the management plan and question 4 toward a course called, and I'll take my mind. It is necessary to get these total resources to be in some position to tell where the real course is going. With regard to the management form, I agree with all that is said here on diversity, on the latest knowledge, on advanced methods and methods experienced in working on the cross-cutting approach. These are key elements in the services rendered and in any aspect of life. We should not be distracted by the management plan. We're just supposed to make those demands. We have this arrangement here to ensure the monitoring and the quality and registration requirements and all the information involved in the provision of health care insurance. All I can see from what I've studied is that everyone is always trying to do better and improve in this field, and of course it's important that the surgeon general's office has a legal check on all health care. Where are we headed? I'll be waiting for this full - time stand, and then we're supposed to do our utmost to shape the overall policy of this class so that we can integrate and provide better service in this area than before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u45	Madam President. Science is amazing, and medical science may not be the least. Who could have suspected of finding a vaccine that would prevent cancer? But that's exactly what happened with the HPV vaccination that was recorded here 11 years ago. The vaccination prevents the virus that causes cervical cancer, which is the fourth most common cancers in women worldwide. Iceland took up vaccinations, the system of vaccinating all 12 - year - old girls in 2011, a great, positive, sensible step, but unfortunately we were submerged. Sweden began 2007, Denmark and Norway 2009, Iceland 2011. We could have done better. Besides all the suffering that comes from having cancer, it just makes a national difference. The cost of society's illness is so great. That's why I was a little surprised when I got an answer from another health minister at the 150th when I asked if she would see a reason for promoting HPV vaccination to reach all genders. She said no. I wondered if it was because the Ministry only looked at the vaccination rates in the girls and thought it was high enough to secure flocks resistance, but then it is closed with the eyes that HPV does not only cause cervical cancer. It also causes cancer of the bowel, vagina, rectum, oropharyngeal (oropharyngeal) and penis. That's why I'm asking the highest question. A minister may consider it a reason to promote vaccination so that it reaches individuals of all genders because not all of them have sex with other sexes and they do not all mate with people who have enjoyed the vaccination program in the United States, and again Iceland is the bottom line of the Northern States. Norway began doing this 2018, Denmark 2019, Sweden, and Finland 2020. Then I'd like to ask the minister if he thinks it is a reason to replace the vaccine that has been used today to protect against the two HPV types, the two types that cover 72% infections, and to record a vaccine that covers nine types, which darkens the rest, as well as the next nine types. Today, parents are buying their way around. [[The president calls.]] Parents make an investment in the interests of their children's health to pay 26,408. for a dose of better vaccine and requires two to three doses to achieve a full vaccination course. [[The president calls.]] I'm wondering, at least. Minister, if we had had had a vaccine against Covid which covered the alpha and delta variants, not sonar, would we ever have considered offering it, but not a vaccine that covered everything? [[The president calls.]] You see, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u46	I want less of it. A senator is to respect the time of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his request on HPV vaccination. They have, like, a bang. A senator came on, made a big difference from the start of offering girls to the 2010 girls as they provide a highly effective protection against known diseases caused by the HPV virus. Hv. A senator turned his attention to two things. First of all, ask me why. Senator whether there is any reason to promote HPV vaccination to reach individuals of all genders. It is now that most people are infected with at least one HPV virus in one lifetime after puberty. The majority of infections go away, but sometimes infection can persist and can cause disease. The most common cancer caused by HPV is cervical cancer, and there are several viruses that cause such cancer. HPV virus is also known to cause cancer at other sites, e.g. in the head and neck area, which is more common among men. The total number of HPV-related malignancies in the region is estimated to be two-thirds of women diagnosed and one-third are male. However, this ratio is likely to reverse as girls are currently vaccinated against the virus and not boys. Group HPV vaccine is good in this country and has a herd effect. However, the benefit of vaccination, regardless of gender, is indistinguishably greater than the benefit of vaccinating girls only. You're right. A senator noted that since the introduction of vaccination in this country, the North countries, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland, which we are so prone to compare with, have adopted vaccinations regardless of gender. Therefore, my opinion is that there is a basis for such analysis and for a careful consideration to offer such vaccinations to all genders. So the second question is why. A candidate involved in whether it is considered possible to switch the current vaccine against HPV, Cervarix, to a further protection vaccine. As previously noted, there are several cases of HPV viruses that cause cancer. The Cervarix vaccine provides strong protection against the most common types and now I'm here with a number of numbers, but I'm not very good at analysing it, but the number is on the page, 16 and 18, if it rings any bells, and also provides protection against three other types of cross-reactivity, which is number 31, 33 and 45. There is another vaccine, Gardasil 9, which provides comparable protection to Cervarix against the most common types, the number 16 and 18, but probably more potent protection against relapses, 31, 33 and 45, and I think that's what it is. A senator was here referring in his speech. In addition, this vaccine provides protection against other individuals, though less frequent. As we have to deal with these issues, a DP surgeon is responsible for having an invitation and making contracts for vaccines. Data from a pathologist include a few examples of such an invitation, including to the price of the vaccine to be given. Gardasil 9 is considerably more expensive than Cervarix. The activity of the vaccine will also be considered by a Dentist. I now think it is very sensible to evaluate this, because I expect that once we prevent the types of infection we've been discussing here, we will be relatively quick to recover all the benefits that turn around. I think it's just wet. In contrast, cost-benefit analysis may be conducted in which the costs of inexpensive vaccines could be compared to those of animals and the benefits of buying more expensive vaccines. I think there's always a need to do that, but I think it's quite conclusive that it's always more practical to prevent such a serious infection. At present there is no analysis of the benefit of Gardasil 9 over Cervarix but it would be preferable to perform such an analysis performed by an aseptic surgeon. Such an analysis might then serve as a basis for the next signal to be held by a psychiatrist in the autumn months. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying right here and now I'm going to take this case directly to a psychiatrist before he finishes his job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u48	Madam President. I think this important question was raised here, and I think it is desirable to vaccinate regardless of gender for HPV and I'm just going to thank you for the highest degree. Minister for the answers. What I wanted to talk about in this discussion and point to the highest. It is very important to reach out to individuals who have changed their gender registry and that those individuals do not fall between tracks when it comes to the vaccination process. The same is true of other sex - health services, and I especially want to mention cervical screening as an example. There I think government needs to be aware that there may not be a person who has changed his or her sex registration to what may be before another routine check. [[The president calls.]] So I want it to be directed to the highest. Minister to get it into the system that we can reach this group, but thank you for your inquiry and answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u49	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers' answers I think are as close as ministers get to say yes in these chairs in queries. He/she should consider and consider whether it is wise to expand HPV vaccination so that it can reach individuals of all genders and therefore highly appropriate to assess the benefit of switching vaccine to another active HPV types. I'm going to allow me to interpret it as a yes, because I think when a psychiatrist passes over the numbers, over the trend in other countries, he's looking at the tip of the World Health Organization, he's seeing the crisis of Social Child Care and Women's Diseases, as far as he can see. We're about to take this step. That's why we have to do it, like the highest. A minister came in, that the current vaccine includes 16 and 18 which are responsible for 72% of cervical cancer in this country. Gardasil 9, on the other hand, includes 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58, responsible for the remaining 28%. I don't even think it matters how many people are behind those 28%. I think it's always possible to calculate to the health benefits of preventing these cancers. Then we may have to discuss the underlying problems in these matters at some point because HPV is infected with sexual relations, and it is a real problem that Iceland does not have to use condoms, if we need to start shooting hands only on those issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u50	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for recording this case here. Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Arnaddóttir also came up here, and I now simply answer that I think we have to face this trend in our neighboring nations to see that it reaches all the genders, as indicated in the speech of both. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. So far, this has been a great show for all vaccinations in Iceland. There are 92◯95% for the previous dose, over the last five years statistics, and the rates for formal rejection are similar to those of any other school course in this country, or 2◯3.6%. Therefore, it is considered to have been in this population that this has had a good effect and that this has resulted in a herd effect and a reduction in infection. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is entering a health benefits. It seems to me, however, that the statistics I've been able to pick up from the Ministry experts that we need to look forward to the statistics that exist in the countries that preceded us, because we've also been, as we have been, to offer it just an isolated group by sex. This is an urgent matter that we need to put more emphasis on. I appreciate this discussion, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u51	A respectable president. While the epidemic was raging, we talked a lot about the extent to which the General Assembly should be taking on the resources used. It's no wonder we were a bit much in that discussion. The action taken was very burdensome. People's human rights were being cut off. People were being cut off by business freedom, freedom of meeting. We know all of this, all the action being taken. We may not yet have bitten off the needle, but it is fine to discuss it because we are obviously accepting a discussion of the revised treatment laws. My consideration of this subject is a little bit because when an epidemic strikes so long and it takes so much and long to take limited control of human rights, the more the Congress will be able to provide such measures with some blessings, both because it is a stronger land for the public to be tolerated in that process, and it is also just a matter of respect, that it is in the process when such dramatic events strike the land and the whole world. In a paper deduction that drew down a bill to legalize disease measures, which was introduced in my consultation, a sentence that I cut down and really bothered me, and I felt that it was the respect of the Generals, although I am completely convinced that it was not the intended thing to do. It said: In addition, the work force is assessed that bringing these decisions to the Council would be a physical modification on the basis of decisions from the basis of professional views to the realm of politics. Of course, I don't feel this way because ministers and governments are, of course, the realm of politics. That's why I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: 1st Does a minister agree with the opinion of the staff appointed by the Minister on June 18, 2010, that these decisions are not all taken in the political arena? Then I'll deal with those human rights impairments that we know so well. 2. Based on this, and then I'm referring to this statement by the Outfit, that it is undesirable for political ministers to address the matter at government meetings, since decisions will no longer be based on ◯convincing views? 3. Is the minister of the opinion that the Ministerial Committees established to coordinate the response to the pandemic, on the contrary to the Ministry, are not the realm of the political sciences to be the norm? 4. Does Ministers believe that the 51 generals, or 51 non - Ministers, are less qualified to consider the more interesting views of the decision - making process than the 12 members of the Council of Ministers? And finally: Will the secretary support the idea that the Allied Council of Iceland, and then I mean the whole council, not just a welfare committee, must confirm the preventive measures taken in case of an outbreak and be careful that the power of a minister to act quickly on impending threat is not restricted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for the inquiry on the arrival of the Generalis to the pandemic treatment program. They now hang out some of these questions, but they're in five parts, and they turn and turn. The arrival of the Generals to the decision on anti-pyretic measures, evidently in connection with the bill for the Disease Control Act, which has been before the council for some time, and I have not yet recommended. But that's right. A senator came in here, there's been some time since we were at the highest point in the ultrasound wave, and then it was a higher subject. Of course, we could not help but look into this legal bill and these views. A senator makes a good point in this question form. First, it is asked if I agree with the opinion of the panel appointed to make plans for new overall application laws on decision making on disease prevention and on which matters are considered, whether or not to be taken into the political arena, decisions made by the Minister by regulations, such as the following. A senator mentioned the matter. It is true that the staff suggested that they use certain stages of disease. I think it's urgent that we look into this in some context of how this bill is being approached. This is suggested by a surgeon who provides advice on serious diseases, which is used in this bill that there is a much more precise definition of the stage and severity of the disease based on the viral variants, etc., as we know from this epidemic. It suggests a new multi-organized administration, a disease - control committee, which will provide a greater scope for the proposal than has been, which the Ministers submits to socially dangerous diseases. It is my opinion that this stratosphere and this wider field will be the key to improving the construction and administration of these laws. I think it's a good idea that the arrangements we've had here were very effective in the epidemic. There has been a measure of strength in making decisions on the basis of a professional. Since then, I have to admit, in the press conference, that may not have been sufficiently efficient. I think it's an improvement in this bill, where it's suggested that the Minister immediately introduce the evidence back there. Of course, this is a way to make decisions faster. In fact, this statement is presented in a paper that deals with the principles set out in the Icelandic Government to minister, each in his own case, is responsible for the administration of all. I now believe that this will not change despite the way we handle it. As I look at the success of things and I'm all for the fact that the council's talking and getting them discussed, I still agree that we are taking positive steps with what is suggested in this bill. But the other factor, IV, has to be watched. A chapter in this bill, that's quite different when we're having extreme social limitations, and there's other factors I'm in favor of talking to the council about decisions they're making at one time. This is not so smooth and even that it can be achieved with all its advantages. [[The president calls.]] Time passes so fast, but I'll try to take the other four questions below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u53	A respectable president. In the United States, I and I have spoken many times about it here in this chair, both during the time of the epidemic and after the severest control limits were lifted, that the General shall have a much more important role in all discussions and decisions for the treatment of disease prevention measures, and that, for example, may be used. look forward to the new Danish epidemic, giving the Congress or Congress a final decision or even a form of denial to a very burdensome arrangement. Unfortunately, this is not expected in the highest bill. A health minister to change the disease control laws, just a presentation to a welfare committee. This is supported by the fact that it is inconsistency to the trident of state and to the European Commission's principle that ministers, in their own language, are responsible for all administrations, have not always been a good idea to assign any visitors to the General Assembly as ministers. I find it ironic because, at the same time, governments are speaking for and proclaiming legal changes in the development of the Generality that the administration and sale of financial assets, something totally functional and natural, that the Minister and the Ministry oversee and are responsible. [[The president calls.]] I'd appreciate it if I could get answers from a health minister on this conflicting stand of the government in terms of the arrival of Generalis for the administration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why is the arrival of a big increase when it comes to banking, not when it comes to basic decisions on life, health, and human rights? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u54	I don't know. A senator is to respect the time of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u55	Madam President. Thank you for your important discussion. I think it's important and agree that it's going to be on such important matters, and I'm not talking about when people's human rights and freedom are at stake, being a very clear link to the democratic elected representatives of our fine community. I realize that we have previously discussed a challenge involving the trilogy of government and are happy to be able to discuss it further when there is only more time. But I wanted to mention here, even though I agree with the highest. The minister that there are many things that were successful in our efforts to resolve this epidemic back then was one of the things that was not quite right, though there was an explanation, and it was prepared for decommissionation, that either we were following science and listening to the politicians called or those who have the democratic responsibility. I think in this, as well as in all aspects of the administrations, the best data must be done at any given time, but will not disable the democratic responsibility. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u56	A respectable president. I also welcome this discussion and think it's very important that although we're better off the Covid epidemic, we don't forget the important discussion of the Disease Prevention Act and make the necessary changes. I, along with many members of my council, have provided the bill for this subject. The approach was made that it would be discussed exactly, saying that the regulations given under Disease Control require a discussion on a welfare committee. I think it would be good to take that discussion now in view of the discussion that when I recommend this method, I speak even. of the way we have about the head of currency and what we've put into the law then, i.e. Consult the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee as well as the bank sales warrant. I think it's a good thing that we look at it, if it had been so that the conclusion of the budget and the Economic and Business Committee would have been saying, "No, now's not the time to sell a bank - we're going to the highest level. A financial minister would have sold a bank? I don't think so. If these committees had said: " No, this and this one need to be taken into account or to do it in some other way, I think I'm also at the highest point. A minister would have recommended them. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think that the way I was measuring would have made a difference, and I think it's important that we take this conversation further to develop ways of changing disease laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u57	A respectable president. What I may also have been trying to find and point out is the attitude expressed by the staff. The view was that the Ministers and the government can build their estimates on the advice of scientists, but the council cannot. It's the realm of politics, the council, the government isn't. Now, I encourage all members of Congress to look inside and wonder if they don't fully trust in making decisions when people's human rights are being cut off for weeks and months in all possible areas, whether they are quite willing to take a good look at what scientists have to say about it. Well, it's just that those who sit on the Ministers' chairs are also members of Congress. I'm just talking about the fact that there can't be any breach there, that those who are using these languages, writing articles and preparing legal products do not have the attitude that the Council somehow cannot bring themselves into question properly and science, but the Ministers can. I'm sorry, but that's how the report was presented in the consultation problem, but I think it's been changed, or at least it's changed. The last time I checked, it's fine. I've been telling you that it's not enough for a Senate committee to come up with, but for the council. Then I'm just talking about, so I'm suggesting, that it's done when human rights trials have lasted for a very long time and it's totally wasting and making sure that the power of Ministers to act quickly is not restricted. I'm just talking about this chronic impairment. What I'm actually doing here when we're talking about this and talking about fundamental human rights impairment is, let's trust the Allied Council of Iceland. We have just as much sense in the head as the government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u58	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the inquiry and the discussion here, and I'm sure we'll discuss this more fully when I recommend the bill that has been submitted. Second, ask why. A senator might conclude from the report made by the staff that it would be undesirable for ministers to discuss the matter at government meetings, since decisions were no longer based on professional views. These measures and suggestions have been discussed at government meetings, and I think it is very important, but they involve more ministers, even though the right of the decision is a health minister, just to shorten that answer. It should also be kept in mind that the decision to use disinfectant measures has been based on the memos and advice from a psychiatrist and has generally made little changes at a meeting. Governments. Third, ask why. A member of the Minister's Committee on Compatibility, which works contrary to the Ministry, wondered if it was not the realm of politics. My experience with these meetings, where the surgeons were involved, and more specialists and memos were discussed, was that these were extremely helpful and strictly necessary meetings. I know I'm going to skate a little over these questions and wait a minute. A senator apologized for that. Fourth, the question was, Would any non - secretary - generals be less qualified? Then the answer is simply no. Of course, there are other reasons why we should make such a decision. Fifth, from what has been done, I believe it will be beneficial to put the matter here before the council has been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u59	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to have anything to say to me about this important matter. The surgeon will hold a waiting list for the selected actions. There are thousands of people who have had to wait longer than 90 days for all manner of action. The surgeon has set out an acceptable waiting period for the operation to be 90 days from diagnosis. According to recent reports on the waiting list for selected measures from the start of the year, there are 14 actions of 18 in which more than 20% of people have to wait for more than three months. 78% of those waiting for surgery and cataracts have waited longer than three months. 71% of those waiting for hip prosthetic surgery have waited longer than three months, and 79% of those waiting for knee surgery have waited longer than three months for a few examples to be taken. Before the pandemic of Covid, governments were having a bad time working on these lists despite some struggles to shorten a waiting list. Because of the pandemic season, the longest have been held. Since then, public action has been shown to decrease so much during the summer season, and these numbers are likely to look worse in the autumn as well. Governments have been able to use the resources of the private enterprise in eyestone surgery and artificial action. The global epidemic of Covid showed that there is little room for the implementation of so-called selective measures. This alone should be reason enough for the inclusion of such increased measures so that the hospitals in the country can concentrate more fully on their core role. So, Mr. President, I would like to wonder if he intends to hide Iceland's health insurance to negotiate with private members of operations such as lens surgery and artificial action to cram from these lists, and preferably put them all under the 90 day goal as soon as possible, as planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir Sveririsdóttir queried about waiting list after selection procedures. Hv. A member of the council asks if a health minister intends to use a waiting period for lens action and replacement to occur at a maximum of 90 days, as requested by surgeon general. I allow myself to answer both questions at one time, and they are of the same hurt: Yes, it is our task that guides health care to ensure that citizens of the country are access to it. We have a clear focus on health care laws, health policies and the current government policy where it is stated that the health services should be granted within an acceptable waiting period. In many parts of the health system, waiting is a well - known list, since there is certain agreement that it is acceptable to wait for a health care professional for some time. Health institutions need to plan their activities ahead of time, both to use operating rooms and to use human resources as well as to set priorities and to ensure that those in their greatest need get first service. Also, patients often need time to take action before they can undergo surgery. It is also clear, though, that waiting may be unacceptable. Therefore, the surgeon general has set this threshold for what may be considered an acceptable delay. These criteria are based on the same types of criteria as those of our neighboring countries for access to services. For example, 80% of subjects have had surgery within 90 days of diagnosis. The surgeon general calls for data on a waiting period for selected surgery and is monitored according to the legal monitoring of the health care facility. Of course, there are a number of factors that may affect hospital performance and this wait for surgery, but the foremost explanation for increased waiting for the last loss is that hospitals have been forced to set priorities for other tasks, and thus less urgent measures had to be taken for other acutely ill patients. Sadly, some measures have been waiting longer than the national surgeon's standards are expected. Thus, through the period of special funding, the task of working down the waiting list has been spent in the most needed and the extended waiting period. Hv. A senator asks if a minister intends to delegate to private members in increasing numbers the implementation of these measures as discussed here. My simple answer to that question is yes. At least I've worked a few jobs. I'll admit right here that I thought it would be easier, because it's the longest thing in the waiting list. This is especially true in the case of a farmer in health care. We've assigned these procedures to the hospitals where special knowledge and operating rooms are needed. However, we have here assigned work to do in the lens surgery, and that is what we will do. We need to do this in cooperation with the hospitals, and the clinical situation can operate as part of a replacement operation. But it has to be in the cooperation of these parties so that it is reasonable in how we work out the waiting lists, since there are very differentities. There is a very good report, a quality report, on who needs both the support factor for operations and postoperative rehabilitation, as well as the criteria for waiting time that we need to consider. I have come to some optimistic conclusion that we will be able to process this list of contracts and make the best use of all our resources. It's just that, in fact, if I were to be patient and I had a direct contact with health insurance and say, "I can't wait anymore. " Now, just negotiate all this waiting list to form the clinical part of your replacement operations - of course, there's a risk of human activity. So we really need to keep in mind that we make the right use of the human race. It's different, we're also going to hospitals, like Land Hospitals, to train people when we're training our experts, and then we're gonna have to make sure that there's all the operations to work with. But I think we can use the whole system much more efficient than we do today. [[The president calls.]] There's just quite a good conversation going on, between the ministry and the private and the hospitals and the health insurance about how we do it, which way we best go to that end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the manager and the Minister for this discussion. Of course, we are unsatisfying about how our waiting times have become out of control. I know that the Covid time affected what we must naturally look through, but before that, we had put billions on the wait list, and nothing happened. It is absolutely impossible for the rooms and services available in the country and can work on our list of waitings when things are like this. I trust the Minister to change that and that this will be a agreement with the members who can really help us shorten the waiting list because that's what needs to be done. You know it on your own, and you know that men and women wait for years to get back to the job market, and many never get out because the wait is too long. The wait is too costly for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u62	A respectable president. Thank you for the leader and Minister for this discussion, which is very good. I just want to come in and say something. 6th. South, Ásmundur Frirdur's Friðriksson, that we can eliminate these measures. We can move a lot of action from a hospital to another hospital, and I'm pointing in this matter in particular at the Kraga Hospital. Last year, it was decided to set up a replacement site for Aranesp, and it was expected to start operation in March and up to 430 operations per year. I'd like to get an answer from a minister about where that matter is, if it has begun its operations, but today there are more than 1,000 people on the waiting list for a replacement procedure. So also I want to reiterate the words of a minister whom he had dropped here in February that he would have this operation in Iceland. So do we, and I would like to have these projects go to a very special company like, for example. The clinical. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u63	A respectable president. It caught my attention to the names of these actions because I can't see that these are some selection procedures for people who suffer from damaged joints or who have a clouding of the eye which leads to glaucoma and blindness if nothing is done. Of course, these are procedures that people need, and they must do if they are to remain healthy. But I agree with what's been said here that there are other forms of service to be considered. There are other options to be made for competition. I'm absolutely certain of that, and we only see it at the health care clinic in Reykjavík, where public service and private service are being run, that it thrives well alongside them. I encourage a minister to exert himself for further expansion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this discussion and thank the Minister for making it quite clear that he has a mixed system in this relationship so that more people can get into surgery. It has been found in the countries we compare with, that a health - care system that is both state - bearing and other means of running is the most successful method of health care. During the last term, there were waiting lists, and people were even sent to operations abroad that cost three times more than here at home and just because of it, I allow myself to say, political views of the then health ministers. I hope we succeed in turning this around. This may have been the result of the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u65	President. I liked hearing words from the top. Health Minister, for it must be said that in this government partnership all the last term, we had the position that the government policy was never part of the solution, but unfortunately a part of the problem. I'm pleased to hear it here in the hall today that those senators who are expressing themselves on a good inquiry at any time. paritaprevir Each member of the Sverrisdóttir feels similarly about wanting to take the steps needed to overcome this problem. The positive thing is that it in itself is not particularly complicated. We know what the solutions are; to use all the energy we already have in our country and even elsewhere. We spoke about this in this assembly hall, a group of reveries, and talked to deaf ears, all the last term, and I sincerely wish a minister to follow these good words and put on increased weight in working out of these ideas and to put on the short list. [[The president calls.]] We should not forget that we are talking about a great deal of quality of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u66	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. This problem is mentioned as one of the problems, but I think the solution to the waiting list is also a solution to the problem of the design problem. The more diverse structure and variety of work conditions that we have to offer for health care professionals who, in increasing numbers, want to be in charge of their own employment and to be able to control more, mean that they are much more willing to move home from abroad and start working here or to return to the health sector if there is more room and even more about how the field is working. I think there is a great deal of urgency to have this in a broad range of environments, whether it is set up on Aranesp, the clinical or other people who would like to offer resources. Then we are more likely to have a number of health care professionals who want to work here. So if the waiting list problem is solved, there is a solution to the design problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. Of course, it sucks that 1,000 people are on a waiting list. If we do the replacements for them, it must be scary to have the number 100 or 200 waiting for the pain medication for months. There's got to be something wrong with our system when we see an advertisement in the papers that you can go to Denmark for an operation and only one month to wait. But the obvious fact is, they say in the advertisement that if the person has waited more than three months in Iceland, he will get all paid and help too. This means in English that there are three operations for one, or four for one. How stupid is that? Why can you negotiate with someone in Denmark but e.g. not the clinical of the seasons, which may take three or four times as many for each person who goes into surgery.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u68	Madam President, what are selection procedures? We may need to start changing the debate about the matter as a matter of choice or action. Is it a choice to obtain relief when a person cannot get out of bed, unable to care for his daily needs because of years of waiting on a waiting list for a replacement surgery? Is it a choice when a woman cannot go to work for months and years because she is on a waiting list for hysterectomy and is simply at risk of bleeding out while waiting? Is it possible to avoid getting close to one another because you're waiting for eyestone surgery? Of course, this is not a choice. In some way, we need to change our thinking that people have a choice whether they are going to take these actions or not. It is up to us to ensure a bioavailability within an acceptable time, said to be 90 days, and we are not doing so. [[The president calls.]] It has nothing to do with Covid. We haven't lived through this for years, long before a pandemic. [[The president calls.]] All we have to do is pull ourselves together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u69	Madam President. I want to thank you very much for this fine discussion. It is not often that you are standing in that hall and agree with it as well as with everything that has taken place by representatives of various categories. But that's fine. It shows the seriousness of the matter. Everybody knows that this is a serious matter, and it's our duty to find something out of this situation. I'd like to mention something special to you. Councilmen of Guðbrandur Einarssonar and Helgadóttir Velgadóttir introduced the fact that this name of action is not valid. It is true that this is not a matter of choice but of necessity and of the public to approach it that way. To say that, I'd like to welcome the best response. Minister. As far as I can tell, he has every desire to meet the challenge of this situation. I would like to mention, though, that the situation was that the hospitals had been forced to set priorities. There's a little different political view of things than anyone, and for example. The one that says here, might say, "And that's totally normal." But there are other members of our great society who can handle the tasks and actions that do not depend on the core functions of their hospitals. I think, as we've just been through, there'd be a lot to be solved on the subject as soon as there would be more private people who could catch these balls. It was also introduced to this amazing charade, this costly charade, that is, you can go to a foreign country rather than live in the seasons or something else. It is not good, and all of us can do better than that. [[The president calls.]] I just want to finally, President, at the highest level. A minister spoke of what he would do if he broke his patience, get to encourage the supreme. Minister to lose patience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u70	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. The main point in this discussion is, of course, that the management form is not important but that of the one needing the ministry, the patient. I'd like to mention in the eyestone surgery that last year a private member was appointed to perform up to 600 operations and recently added 100 operations. So when it comes to waiting, they look fine. Regarding joint replacement, there was hope that the practice room at Aranesp would be ready in March, but there are several months before it will be ready, perhaps two if it works well. Then it's just the fact, as I entered, that the confusion of this process turns to humanity. All these units in the system are always competing for the same humanised, limited human resources. We've worked hard to assess the need, evaluate the ability to perform the operation and frequency of surgery, and I hope that, following a recent quality report, which is very good, you can get together. I'd like to do that in cooperation with all the members of this operation, whether in the private sector or in the public sector, to work together and to use the human race regardless of where people are in the system, and they exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Food Minister Sagisvesdóttir Svavarsdóttir's daughter for coming here and answering my inquiry about the increased use of organic material for food delivery; Erera, waste, waste and waste, waste and waste, soil, manure, black water, mod, molta and sheep. A respectable president. Does a minister think that it is possible to increase the use of this biological material and other wastes within the country for land application, such as food production, agriculture, or forestry? If so, how will a minister take advantage of that? Now as never before, it is important to take advantage of all the resources we have to produce from biohazardous waste. It's a hidden treasure. Prominents are at an historic level and are still increasing. Biodiversity waste is wise to make more use of it, not just to meet the increase in prices, but also to improve sustainability, achieve the targets of the cycle economy, and set climate targets. V.E.G. A secretary in writing has suggested a new report on the analysis of the quantity of organic substances in Iceland and opportunities for increased production. The subtitle of this report is a successful production of fertilisation ▪ a complete approach to the cycle economy (see also under "Environment." This report was prepared by Matise's employees and the land transplants, and there are many important facts. According to the report, considerable amounts of organic waste are reported per year or estimated to be 38,000 tons. A traditional agricultural crop is mainly used as a farm crop and for farmers' agriculture. The use of organic substances for land healing has increased rapidly in the past few years and was 6 times between 2015 and 2021. The total quantity of organic materials used in agriculture is about 8,000 tons per 2021. Most of the increase has been made available in the use of chicken shit, but also in the use of a series of tasks, such as making up a broken hole. Indeed, on the dryer parts of the country, the use of organic materials that bind moisture to healing can be greatly altered. It was clearly seen on dry summers like last year in North and Eastern countries where it is very important to keep moisture in the healing process. At that time, the use of setruding has increased rapidly and there were 870 tons new for land healing of 2021. Organic wastes that have not been used either in agriculture or for breeding have been developed and are carefully estimated to be some 30,000 tons. Only a small portion of waste and sewage is new, but the rest goes through the irrigation systems and ends in the ocean. However, something has gone into fuel production. [[The president calls.]] It's all interesting to look better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u72	A respectable president. For asking why. I'd like to thank you first for the added use of organic waste. A senator for putting the matter on the schedule. As we have seen, the U.S. government's policy is to reduce climate impacts and reach non-carbon levels no later than in the year 2040. Part of the solution is to work in the spirit of the circuit economy in all areas, as is shown in the waste policy of the environment for a period of 2021/2032, which was promised to be a circuit economy and released in 2021. A team appointed by environment, energy and climate ministers is at work and is responsible for working on the progress of policy. An important part of it is to be more effective in the use of organic waste. In the coming years, the policy is to cut off biodegradable waste, especially in order to prevent the formation of methadone when waste decays at the risk and leads to harmful climate effects. In addition, there are purchases, as indicated in the question of why. Senator, a great deal of farm management fees. It is important that farmers can minimise the use of artificial fertilizers, both climate- and economicly. The situation in Iceland differs considerably from that of other European countries in terms of the possibility of increased organic manure. We have been grueled by vegetation and soil erosion, but we lack primarily organic matter. By reducing waste management and increasing the use of organics for land healing, we also contribute to the support of our country's ecosystems and to the purchase of economic benefits and positive climate effects. Most nations are looking for solutions to climate. Research in this area is under way and major developments are under way, e.g. has been used to restore phosphorus from household waste, although it is still small in the form of technology in Norway that reduces the amount of nutrients derived from electricity - based livestock, resulting in a lower need for artificial application. Yet, the situation is still that economics are the most economically used for agriculture to buy goods. Other methods are still somewhat effective in cutting back so that they can be applied more effectively on a large scale, another of the uses of organic farming. In fact, for longer periods of time, efficiency seems to be significantly improved, and the use of organic farming has increased sixfold between 2015 and 2021. The absolute biodiversity of the vehicle for the production of manure on a large scale requires increased research, innovation, organization and infrastructure. There is also the need to consider that collection, transport, and distribution are required to cooperate with societies, manufacturers, pioneers, and services, to name just a few. There must be goals, possible scenarios, and direct, trustworthy plans and ways of testing them. It should be noted that if the prices of manure, fossil fuels, and other resources continue to rise, as we have seen during a pandemic and now war, they may change this image, as well as the fact that the climate crisis becomes increasingly more severe and more urgent. It is important to maintain context in this discussion. To work on the progress of this situation, and in the light of the cycle economy policy, and in accordance with the climate policy, I have decided to get counselling to work on the design of organics. This work will be carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry and agencies, a management team for the implementation of the recycling system, and other economy. This guide needs to take care of the way in which set targets will be met, and a schedule including the following steps will need to be developed. assessment of the current situation, analysis of opportunities and priorities and the presentation of scenarios. This project could be divided into two parts where the first phase is the preparation, aim-up, data collection, analysis, development of scenarios, etc., and then the second phase, where a coordinated cooperation with the strategists is started on road management, then organisations, management of the economy, rural areas, the European Commission, agrienvironmental centre, the Farmer organisation, a marine-exploitation organisation, a village, a clean-up technology, etc. So there are countless opportunities of growing spades in this area, but it is important to set these strings together, and that is the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u73	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion of organic fertilizer and the answers brought by the Minister. This is a natural thing that has been done over the centuries, using organic fertilizer, and now the debate comes back because of the rise of artificial fertilizer. Then I'd also like to remind you that a few years ago, the so - called senator of the Þöfstein Sæmundsson recommended a bill for an exercise factory, and some thought it a little funny and sweaty, but it's totally appropriate today. And also, because the Minister mentioned that the price has been cut off, we in the middle of the category proposed a bill for last term that has become highly developed so that they are not thoroughly contaminated. There is something that would have to look to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Food minister answers and what. A senator involved in the discussion. All of us agree on the importance of more and more biohazard use. Therefore, I welcome very much the information that the minister has brought here on the road to organic matter. I would like to hear a little more of that in the second talk. I wondered if the challenges in this country have been particularly intelligent or ways to meet them here, such as the volume of organic material in relation to artificial application and the resulting transport costs. Some fertilizers have very much water content that creates new challenges but also opportunities for land healing, such as the highest. The minister came in. Then there are the challenges associated with the risk of infection and, of course, the reasons for preventing infection, and I think it is important to examine the organic materials in order to contribute to the utilisation of the product without taking advantage of it. That's one of the things to wear at the same time, or it can be part of winning the guide. It is interesting to read about experiments with increased use of black water, salmon metals, meat flour and poultry dumps on land healing, while in addition to the induction of the cycle economy, and increasing demand for waste collections may be rapid, e.g. From the fish fire. The objective of all of us must be to find ways in which the most practical option for all who produce organic waste or organic material must be restored to the natural cycle. It is most practical for all; companies, individuals and the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u75	A respectable president. I still thank you for the initiative and for the discussion we have discussed. I'm thinking that this subject will be growing over the next year and years because of the desperate opportunity there, for example. As for the menstrual economy in general, which simply leads to increased sustainability and thereby to increased food security. We need to face specific challenges in this regard that call for more research. That is where the guide actually emphasizes it when it comes to it, that the research needs to be greatly developed, and especially that it is a bridge from using organic soil to use it for food production, since we are actually making new and other challenges. However, this is a great opportunity, and many are being worked with sceptres and ideas in the community. I have been delighted to learn that this is not just about initiatives and projects that are being carried out at the Landal Plant, Food, and others, but as participants, to form in agriculture, in fish farming, in the fishing way, in the fishing route, in the process of learning the language and thinking of the system's cycles in such rapid steps that I would not have wondered how important it is to both the management of these companies, their imagination, and their social responsibilities. So I think there are a lot of opportunities ahead, and I look forward to dealing with them with these agents and the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u76	Madam President. I recommend a bill for a job record, but with the bill it is assumed that there will be a new total law on remuneration, no. 55/1980. The bill is based on the work of a staff set up by the then social and child - care minister, but the main objective of the bill is to implement the government's actions in connection with biographies contracts in the spring of 2018, which fall under the topic of social and workforces and depend on the labour market. It is also the main purpose of the bill to clarify the rules of the workforce, including to help prevent social subsidies and break-down activities, and this is the bill intended to address increased problems with the national labour market. The labour market in this country is well organized by the strong labour organisations of employees and employers who negotiate in collective labour agreements for pay and other employment remunerations in a domestic labour market, as well as other factors that concern the interest of employees and employers. In 1980 this was in force in the country of the remuneration Act and the related insurance of pensions, which included it requires that salary and other remuneration be negotiated by the labour market organisation as a minimum salary in the Icelandic labour market. The law also states that the contracts of the individual remuneration workers and professional drivers for less value than the general agreements should be invalid. The existing legislation is thus aimed at ensuring that workers in a domestic labour market will have no less value than those negotiated in general labour agreements. In this way, rules and conventions have been developed in relations with the labour market member who gives trade union unions and employment drivers the authority to represent and protect the interests of employees, companies and institutions, whether in public or public labour markets. A respectable president. In general, the labour market members monitor the provision of collective labour agreements in a domestic labour market. Is it also the role of a union to deal with the complaint of employees that they feel they're violating their collective rights in connection with the workforce. In the bill this change is not expected. However, it is assumed that the labour agency will be assigned a role in this, but it is suggested that in certain cases a paid person be able to ask for the help of the labour agency to obtain the correct remuneration, the employee believes that the employer pays him less than he or she deserves according to a labour agreement. Before asking for the help of the labour agency to get remuneration, the employee is expected, outside a trade union, or through a trade union, to have strictly required the job to correct the salary pay. Such activities are in line with the principle that the labour market parties generally release differences in terms of interpretation of collective agreements without the introduction of public agreements. However, the bill assumes that in accordance with collective agreements, the labour ocer's workforce has the authority to commit a day - to - day ticket and that organisations can allow its operations to be temporarily stopped until reforms have been performed. At the same time, it is suggested that the labour oce has permission to impose on the employer's guiltys, he has not repeated the mandate of the Agency to pay in accordance with collective agreements, as well as in cases where the employer has given the Agency false or inadequate information in the interests of the Monitoring Agency. The bill suggests that in certain cases the employer should pay a depositor. The money box refers to special pay paid by a man beyond paid, but the terms of this material in the bill were negotiated in a specific discussion with the European Union of Iceland and the Economic Association. After two years from the office of the law, if the bill is approved at the General Assembly, it is also assumed that a minister should agree with the labour market organisation to determine if there is a need to review the rules proposed in the bill for value of the above funds. It should then be mentioned in the current rules of the law relating to job drivers' information, but according to the bill, the employer should always have available data to show the salary he has paid to employees at any given time, the work hours and other information about the individual employees' costs, including the salary and confirmation that the individual employee's salary has been paid in accordance with the salary. A respectable president. In addition to what I've mentioned earlier in my history, it is suggested that this bill will set up a specific government collaborative committee and body members of the labour market involved in suggesting a government policy and action plan regarding the emphasis and measures against the violation of domestic labour markets. It is thus assumed that the committee should submit its proposal within one year of the General election, which is important, so that each government has the opportunity to set its course and take necessary action within each terms. This bill also suggests that, with special contracts, it will be established by the Community Commission's cooperation centre for the violation of national labour markets, the objective is to promote the cooperation of these parties and thereby promote official workforce monitoring. In that case, I feel that it is proper to draw special attention to the fact that the range of laws required does not involve volunteers, but it is important to make a clear distinction between volunteers and employees on the other hand. This is especially true since it is against labour agreements and principles in a labour market that volunteers have general jobs in the economic activities of companies or institutions. Jobs that are generally accepted by the remuneration agreements and therefore they will not be replaced by volunteers for these jobs. Therefore, in the bill it is assumed that the concept of a volunteer will be clear, in order to include an individual who does not have general labour jobs, which are part of the economic activities of an enterprise or institutions. However, traditional volunteers have a long history here and are important providers for the greater good in charity, culture, or humanitarian matters. For example, the work of volunteers on projects for various organizations associated with charity or humanitarianism, such as for the Red Cross in Iceland, the rest of the house, the Salvation Army, the Boy Scout movement, or international youth exchange, to name something. So in the bill, if there is a clear exchange between paying people, which falls under the standards of the law, the bill will be by law, and volunteers, who fall outside the set of values. Then the bill makes clear about the duties of employers who commit to working in the workplace. Finally, in the bill of this bill, some changes in other laws are suggested in order to ensure as closely as possible that the actions of the government relating to the biographies of the labour market in the spring of 2019, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, are carried out, but the major changes involved are on the regulations for the construction, loyalty and security of work areas. A respectable president. As previously mentioned in my case, the labour market in this country is well organized by a powerful company of employees and professional drivers who negotiate in collective labour agreements for pay and other personnel acting in a domestic labour market, as well as other factors in the interests of employees and professional drivers, as well as in the monitoring of the terms of collective agreements. The bill isn't meant to change it. However, it has been important that governments, in some cases, be able to intervene in the case of domestic violations of a labour market, which is thought to have a quick and protective effect of the proposed law could have a positive effect on this in the long term. Therefore, I think the bill is important to include the current workforce and to help prevent the fracture activities associated with the collective rights of workers involved in a labour market that contributes to a healthy and powerful labour market in which the rules of the game are respected by all, not just some. The violation of the collective contract rights of employees who are participants in the workforce is that we as a community never accept us. We must do what we can to counteract such offenses, and we are simply under obligation to do so. I think some would have liked to go further while others would have wanted to walk shorter with this bill, but I think we're taking important steps in the right direction with the bill's legalization. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u77	A respectable president. I'd like to trace here in short, that I believe that these laws include an extensive intervention of the public in a contract between employees and professional drivers. I think there's something that just goes too far and I want to go over it. They're mostly two, i.e. A board of consultations, and that kind of thing about money. A board of directors is appointed to issue a charge of money, i.e. Deal with legal differences. However, there are no rules on the treatment of the case or that are appropriate for members of the committee. It may be reasoned that courts are correct in determining and ruling capitals for employers. In the 9th. It is recommended that employers pay less than a general labour agreement to the labour oce. Comments on the regulations set out in the bill show that in general the labour market members are monitoring the terms of collective labour agreements and that it is also the role of a trade union to respond to the complaints of the employees who feel they are violating their collective rights at a labour market. In addition, the principle is that the workforce body solves a conflict that arises in the interpretation of collective agreements without the introduction of public agreements. Thus, the role of trade unions is being transferred to the public. This monitoring is already in the hands of the labour market and is intended to change the law, therefore it is not for the benefit of employees or employers. The only difference is that the surveillance will leave the union in the hands of a labour agency, which will include an unnecessary increase in the number of government employees with the related costs that will likely be high enough to 200 billion. K. every year. Now I'd like to go to hell for a little bit. It appears that the purpose of the law is to counteract job violations and to improve reimbursement due to treaties of the employer's contracts. It is difficult to see what damage a person may face beyond his pay when a professional worker pays him too low a salary that needs to be corrected by the stress of money. The only damage a hired man would suffer would be less paid than he is entitled to. I would like to point out that a salary paid for a job driver's money on account of the lack of pay, as well as the toll interest and the post-traumatic fees. This brings full relief to the worker's losses. Selected employment providers any further damage to the employee's right to damage on the basis of general rules of damage. Thus, the sum of money under the bill can hardly be viewed as some kind of damage to damage but only as punishment for the committees. This brings us to the attention of comments made in the 14th grade. it says that if there is a conflict between rights and the sum of the salary requirement, such as the need for distances from work, legitimate resignation, or breaking of a employment contract testing the interpretation of rules, legal rights, or contracts, a financier will not be taken into consideration as there is a valid conflict. It seems to me that if there is a demanding conflict, money is not a problem. So it would be a mistake to have a law of capital over money in the law, considering that differences in the terms of the Treaty are always a solemn conflict in nature. On the other hand, if a professional driver's objections are regarded as a failure, money - free person can apply. However, no matter how professional objections are considered, disagreements are demanding. The bill appoints a consultation committee to determine whether to employ a capital professional who is allowed to make a suggestion for a sum of money. The bill says so, according to 6th. g., to assess the premium for payment of a capital, such as the interpretation of an analysis between parties or a valid opinion on the part of the employer, not paying the employee's salary requirements. In view of this, there is no particular evidence, but it is difficult to see that some board of consultations, which has little or no rules, and therefore assigned unskilled people, are better resolved by legal prognostication on the payment of criminal damage than by a court of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u78	A respectable president. I find it interesting to listen to a talk here. Senator, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to hear if I could. A senator has given a warning to the bill when it passed through the Independence Party party. Or maybe I'd like to hear a little bit of what? A senator sees the situation now. There's a possibility that this law is about money, this 14th. ..is something that the labour market members agreed on. This appears to be a methodology or implementation both of industry's organizations and of Iceland's All-American Union. This was agreed, and it is specifically indicated in the report that this directive has been prepared in collaboration with the labour market partners. However, this is something that was specifically promised, the paymen were assured to sign the 2019 biographer contract to deal with the break-in activity of a labour market by making the pay theft of prices. I don't remember exactly how it was put in a statement issued during the signing of the Life Treaty. But I might want to hear from what. A senator who led her out of this, whether she thinks it is necessary for her to support this bill that there will then be some radical change in the law of capital, whether she will see that there will be more of this bill here at the council if the material is to be as it has been established here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the inquiry. He's right here, this bill is part of the biographer agreements made by the workforce. Hv. A senator also asks if members of the Independence Party were tried. I am here to refer to a particular discussion that took place there. I can tell you that I made specific warnings about the fact that we're causing differences that have been solved by the labour market to the public, i.e. ... topublisheddiscriminate employment markets to the public. I think it's critical, and that we're moving it to the employment agency. I believe there's a difference between parties. For money, as I traced it to the past, it seems that the harm caused by the wagemen is an obligatory nature and should be brought before the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u80	A respectable president. Another thing I cut off in speech at any time. A senator earlier was -- I don't remember exactly how it was spoken, but the input was that it is difficult to see the damage to employees when the remuneration is not paid at the right time, etc. Now it is that many months are spent in pay, even a year, when the fee is due to pay remuneration in the courts. Is it not perfectly obvious to us here at the General Assembly that it can be very burdensome for people of pay, let alone immigrants, people who come here to work, perhaps have to wait weeks and months after receiving the terms of the agreed pay, that this may mean certain harm? People have to pay off their loans and make arrangements for housing and other things. Is it not reasonable that we try to place some frame around the job so that a part of this harm will happen to the professional driver who betrayed the people of a fixed salary, that they are not just the employees themselves who hold the entire cost of this waiting, and that they meet it with just the money box, something in the direction that is recommended in this bill? Otherwise, I hope to the highest. A social minister who is likely to have had this happen and responds to these critical voices at the top of his neck as shown here against the capital and against the proposed contracts of biographies. I trust he will do so in the second talk later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for his second inquiry. He's here talking about how it's gonna take a long time to get a release. That's right, it can take a long time. But here we are also talking about creating a public committee, and earlier today we were, even though it is unrelated to a matter, a waiting list of public, health, and the Land Hospital, is involved in the work here and what some would like to call elective action. There, time is immensely long, often counted in years until people are cured of their illness. Why, then, should any official committee proposed to be assigned to work faster than that? I'm just asking and wondering. However, there is evidence that courts are justified in determining the value of interestors, not some official committee, which leads to conflict between parties in a public labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u82	A respectable president. I'm glad this is finally a bill for action against pay theft and social subsidies and crime at the Icelandic labour market. Now, the government made it a promise to the labour market people to take action like this during the signing of biographies of 2019. They failed to fulfill promises during the last terms. There was much dissatisfaction among the labor movement, with the bills then produced at the Department of Social Affairs. This fall when it comes to accepting the law in this situation may have surprised someone, but perhaps they are. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir to some part had already shed light on it by his criticism here today why it was so delayed during the last term. There does not seem to be a transnational agreement within the governments how to do this, whether and how to fulfill the promises made to a labour market of 2019. I have to say, this bill seems a lot better to me on the first tour than what was formerly done in the Social Services Department, and I think that in fact, I've never been asked for an assembly, although I may be mistaken. I look forward to reading reviews from unions and other stakeholders. This bill does not seem to have passed through the consultation mystery. That would have been nice. Although, e.g. the punditure is agreed with the UN and the Organization of Employment would have been a good way to get it through the consultation puzzle to provide more and more views. According to the Democratic Association of Iceland from 2018, there has been a dramatic increase in the recent years of labour violations. Today, unions get more and more serious cases on the table than ever before. In particular, fractures are directed to groups in delicate positions that have less knowledge of their job rights and that are harder to attend, e.g. from foreign employees, young people, in poor income. These are agreement breakes with various manifestations. Rewarders are betrayed for December satisfaction, equal wages are paid well under taxation, holiday pay will be paid, and legal holidays, etc. When it comes to such offenses, employers often take many months, even years, to obtain a fee. In itself, it is only harm that people are affected, that they have to wait for a remuneration. Today, in reality, the people themselves bear the cost of that waiting. A growing trade union reported earlier that the social demand for members had increased from 200 each year to about 700 in the last five years. By then, the total volume of the scaffold had also gone progressively. Now she picks up hundreds of millions of dollars a year. The demands collected are, in fact, the top of the iceberg, for they are just part of people who are paid for their rights. Today, there is no pay level or fine when the union is collected, and this is something the labor movement has pointed out, that it simply has a legitimate lack of the power to control this crime. Whether the bill we're talking about is enough. creating these powers, or perhaps further sharpening of these features, is something that we need to consider at the council thoroughly with references, etc. At least it is clear that a collective contract breakes not only against the paymen but also that of the community in the form of lost taxes, competitive competition, and unhealthy labour markets. It is long ago the time to respond to and fulfill the promises made during the signing of the biographies and to set laws to create a tremendous amount of relief from thefts and other market offenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson for his speech here. I'd like to reiterate it, I don't think I've taken it until now, of course, that we don't want to see anything wrong with the wagemen in this country, not by any means. What I was putting forward earlier was that with this bill, we are moving a particular class member from them to the government. This check is already in the hands of the labour market company, and I'm not sure that these legal adjustments are for the remuneration of employees or employees. The only difference is that the surveillance will now be replaced by unions, as I told you earlier, into the employment agency that will, in my opinion, represent a high cost of unnecessary growth in the number of government employees. It can be noted that according to the bill, the employment agency does not monitor employees, i.e. whether or not they'll do their part of the deal, because as we all know, a contract is going on between two parties in both directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u84	A respectable president. Of course, these increased public activities could be released and objective improvements could be recommended without adding to this committee, etc. and measure that a professional person who violates the legal agreements of a hired man should pay a depositor of 80% or 100% of the capital per capita. Exception could be measured when there are any perplexing, justifiable reasons. That would be one way to fulfill these promises, but would that not really be even more burdensome to employers? Isn't that just the way that the bill is going in order to create a certain balance? Or would the Independence Party begin to support the introduction of a budget without their notice and the implementation recommended in the bill, which is, in fact, creating a specific process over and so on? If so, it is fascinating. I would have thought this 14th hole. The bill involves a compromise between this most successful approach that would result in almost automatic right to a paid person and the second, that somehow a paid person would have to take it for a long time and seek justice. [[The president calls.]] I hope that's what I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u85	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'm here to celebrate the social ills that are to be dealt with in Iceland as social subs or pay thefts. It is important that the surveillance is efficient and that those who are wronged and who want to attend will have the support and shelter, not just the labor movement, but the community. It cannot be an agreement between the labour market parties that employers treat employees with respect and respect for the laws and collective agreements. Sadly, bad news, which I would like to call modern slavery, seems to be increasing and increasing in recent years, and especially in the construction and tourism sectors. The ineffable labor force is designed to increase the company's profits. The slaves of the 21st century labor in the dark for a allowance, and this is nothing more than a crime. It's a crime when people are robbed of their wages and rights. It is a crime, and as with other crimes, stealing is a dark act, and it will prove difficult to eliminate it. Worse yet, the victims are afraid to express themselves and are the only ones who take a risk of their crime. The company can only pay off and move on and, at worst, change the social security number. Not long ago, I studied these matters well, and I talked to trade union inspectors about these matters, and their stories are truly striking. When I asked one of them how social subspecies appeared in his territory, he said: "Well, money can be stolen from employees in many ways. He mentioned some ways; not paying sick days; nor do people receive holidays or legal rest time as they should; it is rounded with the shift pump so that shift pressure and overtime are not paid and people are even doing volunteer work. Enterprises, especially in agriculture and tourism, have increasingly been advertised for foreign volunteers to operate on food and housing. In this way, companies avoid paying contracts, including taxes and other obligations. In many ways, the companies who engage in remuneration maintain their employee's salary and strengthen their competition for other serious companies who are law-examined by the laws and regulations and are undermined by the normal business practices of the companies. This is an example of a student in undefined study who receives support, travel, and no pay, and this is not in harmony with Icelandic law. Unwieldy youths are hired as contractors at restaurants, and they are led to believe that this is in their best interests. They do not realize that they are participating in breaking laws, actually in their own rights and in their own rights. Some people are sent to Iceland to ask for asylum and then work black for none or low wages under cover of darkness. Madam President. The problem we're talking about here and that needs to be handled, and I hope this bill, which I'm going to read and work with on a welfare committee, is a modern service and social ills that we're supposed to do together. Hence, it is normal to have a public organization that provides shelter for people who are being violated. I'd be surprised, and I'd be surprised when the reviews come if the business of industry doesn't agree with this, because the companies who commit these crimes and cheating on the paymen are tramping themselves at the top of the order and improving their competitiveness by violating employees. I hope this bill will deal with this problem, and if it doesn't, and if it doesn't come and be approved here will be an adjustment here at the Senate Hall that will improve the salary status in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u86	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the contributions of this bill, which is a cause of joy. This is finally meeting part of the operation that the government announced over three years ago in connection with biographies that are responsible for the rights of a labour market and social subsidies. As shown in a paper with the bill, this was being done in a thorough consultation, at least in certain articles, which may have been the biggest stumbling blocks of this work, on a specific basis. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir for promoting opinions in certain matters here. This field is naturally designed for its appearance and discussion. The difference of opinion seems mainly to be relative to the use of money, and how to interpret and interpret it. The report, so that I refer back to it, refers directly to the personnel included in this list of operations announced three years ago. It says about this so - called "borrowed word, " with permission of presidents, 22 stanzas, or 22nd action: In agreement with the labour market, there will be an increase in the risk of penalties if the employer violates the minimum remuneration of the salary. That it is quite difficult for me to interpret this in a way other than that the state, or public, or some public person, will take it in their arms, and there will be a form of punishment that will be a bit complete. It will be seen, not as some private case, but as a systematic problem to be faced by the government with this package of action. Although there are details to be debated, exactly where these sources are at home, and how this is put on, I think that the application listed here is basically consistent with that. On the other hand, I have a feeling that the difference may be a little ideological about whether the government should take this responsibility on one side or whether it should think this is really a private matter and only between a professional and a paid person in each case. I would find it interesting to have a slightly clearer answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u87	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. The members of Congress are very much involved in this discussion that I think is very good. This is one of the big problems in the workforce, how we can approach them in preventing people from being slanted about their wages. Then I think it is important that we give particular consideration to the fact that all of us must agree on our objective, i.e. that the job market violation, social subsidies, is something we do not want to tolerate in the Icelandic labour market. I would like to briefly mention a few points to address the discussion. First of all, I would like to remind you about the hearing committee discussed here that it is in the law today, by law No. 55/1980. The board of directors is to ensure the independence of the individual. It's theirs, the parties. It's not a public committee, as you can see. Section 6. This bill. I would also like to mention that this may not be a legal case to address those involved in the consultation committee but an interpretation of the collective agreements and at several locations on the bill, it is assumed that matters can be referred to in accordance with the Commission precisely because they are appointed as employees of the labour market, not public. This means that it is fundamental that they are the very members of the workforce who are looking to solve their differences. In the same way, though, this work agency is making it possible for a financial agency to intervene when paying the right amount. In that case, it is her job to see or to make sure that the pay is done in accordance with Article 5. The law. I don't want to mean that we're setting up an official pay check. We're giving it a chance to do that - we're saying: A work agency, a public agency, is expected to gain additional authority to establish the right salary where they haven't been, where they're stealing people. I'd also like to mention one important point in this context, and that's 7th paragraph. which covers the job information requirements, this is a new list in which a employer should always have available data which show the salary he or she has paid to his employees at any given time, the work hours and other information about their costs, including salary bills and confirmation that the employee's salary has been paid according to the salary. I'd like to mention a little bit about money too, i.e. due to violation of function. I think that's where we're taking an important step. I don't doubt it, and I know there's a difference of opinion on this. We've heard that opinion reflected in the discussion today, and it's only good, but I think it's important that when a crime occurs, when a salary is stolen from a hired man or a paid person should be able to come to pay and not public. If we just put it in a larger and larger context, why are we doing this? Of course, we're doing this to make sure that people get paid contracts, that people can pay their rent, buy food, and they don't have to borrow money for it, and that's a way to guarantee it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Affairs Minister if he himself had been in favor of establishing a law on objective improvements in accordance with what the labor movement had called most. I ask if he does not feel that this bill involves overexploitation of the workforce, and particularly the labor movement, expected when the biographer contract was signed and whether it is in favour of a policy of objective improvement. I also ask, " Why was it the result of what was expected to be part of a lifetime document agreement? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I want to answer this in two ways. Of course, it is something that is natural to examine, but it must be possible to separate the offense from failure, and that is the way that goes into the budget. This, of course, is a conclusion that comes from trying to communicate with many wishes and opinions. So I think the solution there was something that is natural to suggest. I feel that way, especially because this is what has come to the conclusion of the commission that won the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, pointing out that objective improvement rules can be completely legalized but put in advance that money money money can be turned down or paid in the event of financial justification and reasons. If I don't, I'd like to ask the highest. Social and employment minister whether he agrees with the point of view, which appears earlier in the talk at the highest level. The head of the Allied Economic and Business Committee, that it is difficult to find out what the cost of your salary is beyond your pay when a professional person pays him too low a salary that needs to be corrected by the pressures of a capital. I'm asking if the highest. A minister agrees with a view to the fact that the only damage a hired man would suffer would be less paid than he is entitled to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Just so it's said, it's not the first time I give a bill, and some senators don't exactly agree with what it says. I have presented quite a number of cases at the General Assembly, which have taken place in the General Assembly. Most of them have managed to finish up here at the council, and I hope it's one of them. I don't agree with everything that was said in the 1st case. South, so they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u92	A respectable president. I must admit that I would have expected it at the highest. Social Ministers that he would take more of the fight here at the Congress Hall against the harsh criticism that comes from the collaborators when it comes to a fundamental issue agreed on in the signing of the biographer's contract. Today, it has been shown here at the Parliament's Hall that a spokesman for the Independence Party in Economic and Business, the head of the World's Economic and Business Committee, is very opposed to certain aspects of the bill and severely critical of them. He does so according to certain viewpoints that you might have expected the minister of the seminary to have a clearer answer. In my second speech, I would like to point out that, of course, a much simpler method could have been legalized. There is no one who says that someone in a special area of appeal must be established beyond the general courts when the law on money is set up. But the scene that's created by this bill - the process that is being legalized here is, in fact, one would have thought, just to make these laws less burdensome for employers, who can then take the loss of pay. In fact, it will be more difficult and more difficult to get compensation when it is violated. Despite this, despite the fact that these requirements have not been heard at all, not only from Elinga, but also from the President of the United States, which has been very clear in setting an objective reform order, have spoken very strongly in speech and literature - despite the fact that the labor movement does not become his wish here and has been created to protect special interests of the professionals - it seems that self-important ones are still being very careful about the bill. Perhaps this opposition of the party is clarified to some extent by the lateness of this event, which should have occurred during the last term. This 2019 was negotiated, and soon the general market contracts will be restarted. This case, as well as legal improvements for tenants of broken rent - neither of them have yet been approved. As I said before, a bank without a special appeal scene is completely possible. Then it is just that after an incident, the amount of the available remuneration that a paid salary and trade union will be forced to go to court, she would not be paid. Then there is the defense that if a professional acquitor is acquitted on pay requirements, he is also automatically acquitted of the money box. He has not, then, violated the legal agreements of a hired man. If the requirement is to be judged in favor of a hired man, the judge may come to take his own position to see if there were any legal reasons for justification to destroy the capital. There are various ways to legalize a capital, and I don't think that the bill given during the first lecture may be clouded by a number of factors. This could be gone beyond what the government groups have agreed on and what both ASI and the commercial organizations seem to have agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u93	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill for payment on the care of long-term or disabled children. The bill suggests that there will be new overall payment laws for the carer of chronically ill and disabled children who replace current law no. 22/2006, about payment for parents of long - suffering or serious disabled children. When this change occurs, the current law is expected to go away along with Article 4. track No. 99/2007, on social assistance, which requires care payment. The bill was written in the Department of Social and Work and is based on a large part of a 2020 work group report on care payments and payment to parents of long-term or disabled children. The bill's even. to meet the emphasis stated in the Government Treaty on improving the quality of life and quality of long - suffering and severely disabled children and their families with a new arrangement of care management and care care supplies. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here is suggested to provide a new total payment for the carer of chronically ill and disabled children who replace current laws as above. It is expected that caring for the parent and care systems of the present system will be combined in one whole set of government legislation, which will require public financial support for the care of long-term and disabled children in one place. The bill expects the support of a carer of chronically ill and disabled children to be increasingly dependent on the child's real needs of care over what is appropriate for healthy children during the same age, but the current system is almost exclusively based on disease and disability analyses. The bill suggests that there will be a fresh replacement of care evaluation based on an overall assessment of the child's needs for care. The relevance of medical analyses will be reduced but increased emphasis on the child's real needs for care and the importance of information from caregivers. This will allow individual and collective assessment of the need for care and, thus, not all medical evaluations. It is suggested that the five care steps will be taken as the patient's need for care increases from Steps 156.5 or from the time the child needs supervision, support or training in a number of activities to allow him to need continuous care and to care for the whole day. The level of payment is then determined by the step in which a child is organized, and the pay is rising with increasing levels. The bill also suggests that payment is divided into two categories, a carpentry payment paid for six to 12 weeks, and a non income - related care allowance paid for a child's 18 - year - old. Carnage payments are expected to be pay-related and are based on previous employment initiatives. It is suggested that each carer has an independent right to care care management for up to six weeks with the possibility of an extension of six weeks to very severe cases. It is important to ensure that both parents have the potential to care for their child in this situation, so the principle is suggested to become the individual right of each parent to compromise. In exceptional circumstances, parents may be allowed to hand their rights up or down to one another, as circumstances may be viewed as serving the child's best needs and interests. Caring strength, however, is independent of the parents'previous employment involvement, and the strength can be paid up to 18 years of age. It is suggested that both caregivers can get paid resources at the same time, but according to current law, only one parent can get paid at any time. It is important that parents be able to divide their carer strengths at the same time, but by doing so, both caregivers will have equal opportunities for employment or study. Study or employment participation is then expected not to exclude the carer from being paid plasma concentrations of care and thus the support system becomes more flexible and contributing to the reduction of social isolation by caregivers. A respectable president. In addition to what I've mentioned above, the bill suggests that special expense payments will be implemented that will be met at the high costs of a child's disability or illness, and other public people will not pay. This is the cost of a chronic illness or disability of a child and is beyond what is appropriate for healthy children of the same age. It's even here. refers to direct costs due to the necessary services, training, or assistance tools that other people do not fully pay, but also to indirect costs, such as increased stress and erosion of housing and household equipment, e.g. caused by the use of wheelchairs and wearing clothes that are broken. V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, most of the bill consists of a work group report on care payments and payments for parents of long - suffering or disabled children since 2020. A member of the Management Board of Longsuffered Children, the National Institutes of Development and the National Development Association of Iceland, were members of that task force, as well as representatives of the Ministry, all of whom served as representatives of the staff to the report and suggestions. In addition, the bill was published to the public in the government's consultations and was taken into account the comments that were made when the discussion was agreed on as far as possible. In general, the reviews were positive to the changes proposed on the bill and aimed at total financial support of the State to the families of children with disability or chronic diseases consistent with the need and development of the case. Legalisation of the bill is not expected to affect government administration, but if the bill is agreed as unchanged, it is expected that the State's expenses for the quality of care and care pay will be in the range of 5.77/7.3 billion dollars. and that costs will vary from 400 to700 million. K. ..................... every year. As taxes are expected to be taxed, the amount of income tax would be estimated to be 2,26.8 billion in terms of these expenditures. Thus, the number of Internet bills will be between 3.9 and 6.5 billion a year. The current budget is about 3.5 billion and is thus an increase in net expenses, which accounts for a total of about 0.4How thousand million dollars. every year. A respectable president. I believe that there is a need for new legislation on this series of lawsuits that discuss the financial support of the State to the families of long - suffering and disabled children, as the present system has come into its years, and its overall reexamination has lasted for a long time. I believe that if the bill becomes a law, it will improve the quality of life and quality of the sick and disabled children and their families, where there will be increased support to caregivers compared with the real need for those who are chronically ill and disabled. In addition, I think it is very important that the supportive system becomes more flexible and contributes to reducing the effectiveness of the carer's social isolation, while stakeholders have stressed that caregivers can pursue studies and after job activities while caring for their children. A respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u94	President. Yeah, there's a lot of really good stuff in this bill to do. I would like to mention, though, that income - related payment is only three months at a time, as it says. I feel that this is a very short time and perhaps something that might be revised. But there's something else I want to talk about, i.e. that presupposes on the basis of other incomes, that's what's stated. It does not seem to me to be concerned with parents who take care of their children and who often want to go back to the job market - that their basic income is not being cut off by their job contributions. I don't like it because for a long time the voices of parents of long - suffering and disabled children have been heard because of this and even though they are discussing reducing social isolation, it seems that there is not enough hearing of these loud voices that have often been heard. Social isolation and a lack of professional involvement are prognostic factors for getting back into the job market and the longer you're not at a job market, the harder it is to get back on the job. Parents are to have a choice, and these basic payments are not to be cut off when they go to the job market. It is said that both parents receive this payment. Not everyone has two parents, it's just not like that. That's why I want to ask the highest. Social and workforce minister whether he will reevaluate this and make sure that he will listen better to this parental appeal and make sure that the basics are not affected by other incomes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I want to start by reacting only to what was said about many months, i.e. During the three months where pay-related pay can be maximum. If I recall correctly, it's not really a change from the current law. I believe it is important that there is a possibility that parents can get paid at the same time, which is not today. I believe that, in fact, it is possible that both parents, often male and female, although fortunately it is not absolute that the gender exchange is that way, both parents can make new payments. I would then like to point out that the amount of care that is not related to income is not reduced if you are at work or at school. Caring is paid only to parents where a child arrives at step 4 or 5, so this is not for all, and it is obviously assumed that the person will leave the labour market. Hv. A senator asks if I would like to listen more to my parents. I always want to listen more and more to people who want to achieve an increase in equality and justice in the community, and I trust that when it comes to it, it will be too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u96	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yeah, well, the care span is a lot of hair, and I'd like to reiterate that I like a lot of good things in this bill. But I still think it's important to protect the individuals who want to be at work because, while you have a child in steps 4 and 5, you may not want to exclude yourself from a job. I feel that this bill needs to be kept in mind, and it is taken into account that all parents, regardless of how weak their children are, have the same rights and choices as whether they go to the job market or not. It's just very important, there are a lot of parents who have discussed that they don't experience that they can go to the job market because they're going to cut their pay. So I'm asking, is there any one who wants to reevaluate this step 4 and 5?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u97	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make it clear again that when it comes to caring for the strength, which is really what is paid to children up to 18 years of age, there is no impairment. This is unique in these income - related payments, which are temporary care payments. So I refer to the Committee to consider this, if there are points to take place. A senator has special comments on the subject, but I would like to emphasize that with this bill, we are taking a big, important step toward giving parents the opportunity to work or study, which I believe is very important. And again, the caring strength of a child up to 18 years of age is not restricted if you are at work or studying.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u98	A respectable president. Here is a synopsis proposal to implement a move on the affairs of immigrants for the year 2022/2025, according to Article 7. Law on Foreigners'Issues, No. 116/2012. This plan, like its predecessor, is based on five main points about society, family, education, employment markets, and refugees. For each support, efforts are put forth to achieve the objectives of each foundation. This is a suggestion to engage in extensive international policy plans and to develop green books and white books, where long - term vision will be provided for immigrants. In fact, I'm here discussing the first foundation, society. It is important that population attitudes are reflected in all policies, administration and public services and that the active participation of immigrants in all areas of society is considered normal, self-skilled and important. In addition to the policy-making of education for public employees as well as information exchange for immigrants, such as building on the job done at the immigrant counseling agency. This will ensure that information will be ensured for all and effective counselling with immigrants in Iceland. This will highlight the increased data collection and knowledge sharing so that governments are building their operations on a stronger basis and developing a platform where there is access to research, knowledge and statistical information on the affairs of immigrants and refugees in Icelandic society. As part of community development, communities have a key role and support in the preparation of reception plans and in the force of policy development are proposed to contribute to the integration of the population and integration of the interests of immigrants in policy makers. Family service is based on the involvement of immigrants in all areas of society, where children are exposed to leisure activities, disabled children, and young people who are neither at school nor at work. Special attention is given to housing markets, social security and well - being. The future is watched and viewed as being the subject of older people because the growing number of immigrants in Iceland means that older immigrants will increase. As an example of measures to achieve these goals, there are emphasises on increasing the participation of children and youths of foreign background in organized sports, leisure and youth activities and the support of disabled children of foreign origin and the support of their caregivers. Educators focus on large learning communitys at all levels of high school, where there is a wide variety of support and support for the student's native language and the increase in foreign - language educational skills. The assessment of the knowledge of the newcomers has to be sought so that society will not miss out on the knowledge gained by immigrants. At the same time, a powerful modern - day Icelandic program is needed to strengthen the active involvement of people in the community. Thus, the educational program aims to evaluate previous knowledge, education, and the support of the native language of immigrants as well as the active support of Icelandic studies. Since it is important to ensure a wide range of voices within the educational system, it is emphasised on increasing the number of progressive teachers and other professionals from the ranks of immigrants within the system. The workforce provides measures with the goal of equalizing opportunities for the work market, teaching people about their rights and duties, and reducing unemployment among immigrants. Emphasis will be put on strengthening the position of immigrants in the Icelandic labour market by means of measures that reduce their unemployment and help ensure that immigrants always have access to jobs and earn the same salary as others do for the same or as the same valuable jobs. Impartials have the same protection as others in the workforce and are well - informed about their rights and duties. It is important for this group to know where to look for victims of break-down activities, such as social subheadings, in the labour market. Work market opportunities are an important factor in strengthening the position of immigrants in the labour market. It is important that the public sets a good example in councils, so one of the operations on the growth of immigrants in public employment and that public employment reflects the fact that immigrants are 15.5% of the population. At the same time, it is necessary to review laws on the legal rights of foreigners. New reviews, including to make room for waste management based on sectoral activities and effectiveness to be improved. It will ensure that people who are given a permit on the basis of humanitarian or specific connections with the country will be granted unauthorized employment permit. A respectable president. The last support of the plan is about refugees. There is reason to have special support for that group, and refugees do not come to the country on the same grounds as other immigrants. Thus, the strategy suggests that the welfare of refugees will be viewed specifically. The cohesive welcome of refugees will continue. Especially should you be aware that the spiritual condition of refugees, the manner of getting welcome from unwanted children will be reviewed, and specific support will be provided for children who are not accompanied by them and young people who are being protected here. We can see this, especially now that many people are seeking refuge in Iceland from a cruel war now in Ukraine, how important it is to be conscious of their spiritual well - being. An action aimed at identifying the interests and well - being of refugees and candidates for international protection in Iceland and their participation in society can lay the groundwork on the welfare of people for the long future. We have not hesitated to face a challenging assignment. Iceland has already developed a policy to receive refugees in a particularly delicate position through the work of a refugee committee. Thus, the implementation program emphasizes the importance of strengthening education on rights to the group as well as the professional involved in their welcome. It also emphasizes measures aimed at ensuring education, counselling and support for people who are particularly vulnerable to their national rights and support. At the same time, it should be ensured that those serving in a more sensitive position are being instructed on the specific support necessary. By such instruction, we wield the authority of the refugees as well as they are opposed to them. A respectable president. A move plan on the affairs of immigrants affects most of society's affairs. Entire opportunities for participation are the key to a successful society, and with the plan it is a means of success. After a discussion, I suggest that the synopsis proposal be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u99	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the foreign law, No. 80/2016. A similar bill was presented for the last legislation, but either it was not recommended or it did not work out. The bill is now refurbished, but in a somewhat different form, it includes only adjustments to the laws on foreigners on international protection. These are proposed in the bill to change the law of police law on the role of the Director of State and, in agreement with the Social and Work Programme, are also proposed to change the laws on the legal rights of foreigners on the version of temporary employment because of special circumstances. The implementation of local laws on foreigners has shown that there is a need to correct, revise, and modify several of the laws of international protection, as well as the implementation and handling of existing items is clear and transparent. As mentioned in the bill's report, this group of subjects has developed considerably here and internationally from 2014 to 2012 when the bill for current law was passed and approved. This is mainly seen by the development of a number of applications received by the Icelandic government, 354 by 2015, and by about 8003/4.1.100 in 2016/2021, except for 2020, when 654 applications were received despite significant limitations in that year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. If this number is compared with other North countries, applications for international protection were the majority in Iceland during 2019, 2020, and 2021. For example, last year the Icelandic government received 23 applications per 10,000 people, only eleven in Sweden, five in Finland, four in Denmark, and three in Norway. Global protection applications have grown dramatically this year as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine near the end of February. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that of the 1,532 applications that have been submitted this year to this date, May 16, there are 536 of individuals who have no connection with Ukraine. If this trend continues, some 1,500 such applications will be passed during a year that would be the longest year of application. The number of applications from the Ukrainians is already 966 who have come to the country in 12 weeks, and there is a strong uncertainty about what the development will be for the next weeks, months, or years. In addition to the large number of applications for international protection received in recent years, the composition of the group has also made significant changes. The majority of applications obtained at the time after the implementation of a law on foreigners in 2016 were unfounded applications from secure states or up to 60% of applications. The last loss has resulted in a significant increase in international protection applications in Iceland among those seeking international protection once again, i.e. individuals who have already been protected in another European country. The proportion of such cases was about 16% in 2018, 24% in 2018, and 52% in 2020 and 21% in the last year. Similar figures are not seen anywhere in other European countries and in countries that have identified some increase in these issues, their ratio is only about 5%, including Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and Norway. There has been a significant increase in the number of candidates who receive standard material treatment in this country, including those in the country. People who come from faraway lands are fleeing from persecution in their own country and are being protected here. It is important that the legislation be adapted to the development of the region and the international community and to the challenges of the protection system at any given time. Governments handling these matters need to be able to cope with changing circumstances to ensure that the security system is able to handle the humanable and efficient applications, that adequate services are provided, and that the funds available are best used. I believe that it is important that the refugee system is an emergency system, intended for people who fear their lives and freedom, is in danger of death, torture, or inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. Then I further insist that this bill does not change any more about the rights of those who are looking to the country and who need international protection. Furthermore, there are no changes to the rights of those who gain international protection in Iceland. It is necessary to ensure that those who seek and need protection against persecution receive careful and quick solutions and thus get out of the application procedure more quickly and can adapt to the community, as well as the preservation of the land by means of a wide variety of means of living, housing, health care, and education. In this regard, I especially noted that as the number of people who have applied for international protection in this country during the past few years, the number of people who have been protected in this country has increased considerably. With the exception of the comets in 2014, some 50 individuals were protected in this country, but in 2021, 492 individuals were protected. That's almost tenfold in seven years. It is important that this procedure does not delay because of the high pressures of the management department in the payment of candidates who have, for example, been put on trial. already international protection in another European country. The bill is therefore part of the required review of the current alien law and includes the more meaningful changes in the handling and handling of applications for international protection than have been carried out so far. Special attention should be given to experience in the implementation of current legislation and the development of the category of events since 2017, including after the Covid-19 pandemic started two years ago. The bill is then agreeing the legislation and implementation of these issues with the development of other European countries, especially the rest of the European countries. This whole context is important to keep in mind when discussing the individual regulations of the bill. A respectable president. I now explain the key elements of the bill. Two. It is suggested that the decision made by the National Institute of Foreign Affairs to accept treatment as an automatic complaint against foreigners. A large proportion of decisions in matters like this are already charged with the Commission's five- and nine hundred and ninety-eight percent in recent years and by changing the arrangement so that the decision will automatically reduce the amount of time that is not used for litigation without compromising the right protection of candidates. In the 3rd. The bill is the health authorities added to institutions that have the authority to process personality information about foreigners in the implementation of the law. This ensures that the respective governments, in turn, will be able to obtain the necessary information and information from the health authorities so that they can carry out their duties in accordance with foreign law. In the 5th. The bill is suggested that a foreigner who has received the final confirmation of his application for international protection receives services for no more than 30 days from the release of the final decision. From that time onward, the principle will be that all of his rights fall down. There are some exceptions, since the rights of children, parents, or their overseers and other members of the household, including relatives of children, pregnant women, and their mates, severely ill or disabled persons, with long - term needs. It will then be permitted to delay the breakdown of a service when it is considered necessary for fairness, provided that a foreigner cooperated with the decision to leave the country. Code 5. The bill takes into account the principle of valid law that a foreigner enjoys certain basic rights while its voluntary return is in force at an average of 7◯30 days. On the 30 - day basis, a foreigner who has the law to leave the country is given sufficient time to leave the country. If this is not achieved for any reason that is not the responsibility of a foreigner, the bill assumes that a temporary suspension of his rights will be permitted. In connection with Proposition 5. I believe it is important to note that a foreigner who has received a final rejection of a global protection application is usually aided in leaving the country, such as the payment of a fare or a return to the home state. Such grantings can come up to 3,000 euros per person and should contribute to effective return to the home state and support the reinstatement of the country, e.g. can be used for renting, studying, working, or other projects. Six. The bill is a guide for the special application of repeated applications, which enables foreigners who have applied for international protection to gain decisions in their affairs reviewed on the basis of new data and information. It is thought that the clearer rules and agreements with other European countries on review and recycling of these issues will improve effectiveness within the application system, while at the same time ensuring the rightness of candidates for decision-making on the basis of new data and information. Seven. The bill is presented with several adjustments to 36rd par. The law says when to accept an application for international protection for physical treatment. First of all, it's suggested at 7 st. premium 2.mg. does not apply to candidates who already have international protection in another country. It is still stated that the protection they enjoy in another Kingdom must be active, as well as that they cannot be sent where life or freedom may be at risk. The bill also assumes that when assessing whether an active international protection is involved it is not enough to consider whether international protection has been provided but, rather, must be properly carried out, i.e. that the individual enjoys, on the other hand, the minimum of the rights laid out in the United Nations refugee Convention and, in effect, the fundamental rights of the law of the State, that individuals with international protection should be enjoyed. Hence, circumstances and conditions at reception are always examined in these issues. Second of all, it's suggested at 7 st. that the end of treatment will depend on the time when the case is finally completed at administrative level and not on land transport. This is in harmony with the same legal deadline. Third, sharps the 7. The rule of first sanctuary, i.e. that the application for international protection should be done in the first Member State to which the applicant is available and can provide protection. This is especially the case when the applicant has such a connection with another state that it can be considered fair and normal to apply for protection there. Finally, 7th paragraph is defined. the bill further notices when the application is delayed by the responsibility of the candidate himself. Eight. the bill is the law of the current law that deals with children's application for international protection changing in the process of taking better into account the interests of children who apply for international protection. There are also regulations to support the introduction of child-friendly interests when applying for international protection. Counts 9 and 10. The bill is presented with changes in the disposal of applications for the lack of federal interest. On the one hand, the separation between the international protection and the loss of state when applying for international protection is required. This change is proposed following the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Courtship of Unauthorized Subjects from 1954 and to reduce the loss of state since 1961, while the contracts went into effect against Iceland in April 2021. However, the wording of elimination is the reason for the decision to provide protection for the failure of the state. 12th degree. the bill is presented with changes to who can receive so-called secondary protection, i.e. International protection from family ties. I call attention to the fact that the observed change has no effect on the current rights of these persons to apply for housing due to family unity, however, they do not have international protection. 16th degree. The bill is suggested that the regulation of child application material change from 2020 to be answered within 16 months, instead of 18 months. The directive states that if a child is allowed to be granted a permit on the basis of humanitarian views, he will not be allowed to find a conclusion in his case at a administrative level within 16 months. 19th degree. The bill is proposed to provide a preliminary directive to June 30, 2020, which includes the temporary obligation of a foreigner whose law is to abandon the country to a validated test to determine whether he is infected with Covid-19 if necessary to ensure the execution of the decision on deportation or dismissal. The refusal of the stranger to undergo a test would be permitted by the police to require the authority of the police to exercise authority in order to perform the test. A foreigner in this position, therefore, has the right to be determined in the courts whether there are conditions for such a duty and operation. This is to respond to the situation in this country because of difficulties with the implementation of exodus and contrasuaries due to the request of a negative PCR test for their cross-border. When this requirement is made with the aim of preventing the spread of infectious diseases and protecting the health of the common people. As further explained by the regulations, the number of foreigners whose law is to leave the land has repeatedly refused to undergo such tests and thus escape and remain on this land during an illegal stay. In fact, foreigners have been self - assuming as to whether they submit to the government's decision on disfellowshipping or dismissal. As a result, the reduction in the number of exports carried out by a national escort has been significant. At that time, a group of foreigners who live in the country will have an illegal stay and wait for land - to - land transport to increase rapidly. By the beginning of January 2021, 58 individuals were leaving the country, but today, on May 16, 2022, there are 287. A balance between individual interests and rights is necessary and that governments can enforce legitimate decisions. Without such equilibrium, laws about foreigners do not achieve their objective, and the system as a whole ceases to produce the desired results. A respectable president. Today, May 16, I have received information from the State Marshal that European countries have increasingly begun to reduce the borders on the border by Covid-19. So I believe that in view of the information that the General and Education Committee specifically considered whether there are grounds for keeping this law, or removing it from the bill. This I say because the law is thought of as both temporary and special resources in the light of Europe's situation of Covid-19, but also important, in view of the fact that the directive is based on average perspectives, that no more than is necessary to achieve specific objectives. I will strive to inform the council by the Ministry of Justice and its institutions and the committee of what the trend is on the borders of Europe's countries in this regard. In addition, in this context, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and mention that I have proposed to the President of the Generals that the U.S. Marshal's agent be committed to the execution of police on deportation and deportation. This strengthens the setting around the implementation of these matters, as well as ensuring that the rights of foreigners in this position are respected. Finally, 1st, verse 21. The bill, in agreement with a social and employment minister, suggested that foreigners who have been authorized on the basis of humanitarian views or because of a special connection with the country under the laws of foreigners be excluded from the temporary employment permit of this country. Is this suggested in order to reduce the conditions and simple participation of the individuals in this position? A respectable president. I have considered the key elements of the bill, but in other respects it is referred to in its work and comments to its individual regulations. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill and would like to ask the highest. Minister only in two things he discussed here during his final minutes of presentation. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to change the law on the legal rights of foreigners. Tells you the highest. Ministers that the Foreign Institute may be able to arrange for the treatment period to be shortened in the past so that people who wait here for an answer, which is here for protection and wait for the answer and outcome of their cases, may be granted temporary work permit? There's a shortage of working people in Iceland. In the past, it was easy to do that, but it is now taking 6◯8 months to get the answer to temporary work that makes the job offer long gone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u101	A respectable president. One of the main objectives of this bill is to shorten the treatment period in general for those applying for protection and, of course, the amount of time they can apply for work permit. According to this bill, once you've been protected, you'll have your employment license automatically. It's, like, a... Already testing the population of the Ukrainians who have come here has begun. Happily, these applications have been carefully processed by the Labour Department, so if they reach the time, they need not months to wait for them but to a maximum of the days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u102	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer to some question other than the one I asked. I was asking the highest. Ministers to temporary work permit granted to those who are waiting for the decision, as shown in my case. Those who have come here and applied for protection, can get a job right away, bring the paper that they have got a job - can a minister make sure that the person is able to issue temporary employment permits without having to wait for the answer to be 6/8 months at this time? In the past, it was available in 2◯3 weeks, and those who had offered work could do it and thus fell out of the State's contribution because they had already had a job. The highest. Ministers will ensure that there will be some efficiency in this so that we can both lighten the lives we have here and wait and help the operators work in their business because there is no work here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u103	A respectable president. Once there was a second wave, it's right next door. Senator. Here were circumstances, such as I went to my frontnote address, something else some time ago. Not in so many years, things have changed completely, and of course, we have a much longer court treatment period in all this series. No doubt this will be explained for the reason that temporary work may be possible in the same way that the meal period has generally increased very much or since ten times in the last seven years. I think I can say what. A senator that this time will be greatly reduced. I think it's just a matter of fact, I think it's a top-of-the-art Board of Education because I'm certainly one of those people who want to pay for these people so they can go to the job market. But most of all, I want the great waiting period that has been done, the long pay period that has been on all applications to be reduced, and this bill will be substantially changed to the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u104	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the past in this matter, which I don't think anyone would admit I disagree with. In view of what was said in the case of the highest degree. Minister of Justice, I would like to direct especially two questions to him, though there are truly many more who burn on me. First of all, I did so by the highest. The Minister of Justice is talking about efficiency and that this bill is designed to improve efficiency. But now it is as good as removing one of the most important laws that came into place with the law in 2016 that was accurately involved in increasing efficiency, and there are deadlines to make progress. These are deadlines to make sure that if a matter has been prepared for 12 months or more and is not taken into account for the treatment of the material, it will be taken into account after this period of time. This law is now being changed, so it is basically being deactivated. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice how in any case this is going to improve efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u105	A respectable president. Of course, it is the face of anyone well - known, who I do not doubt. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdótttir Gunnarsdóttir, she has spent many years in this category and has very extensive knowledge of it, of course, it is the reading of this bill where the laws are, in order to improve effectiveness in the payment of these cases. You may not need to start listing all of them in a short talk. I've got a minute. The duration of treatment will be shorter because the whole process becomes simpler. It aims to solve their applications into the futures that are certainly in urgent need of protection, those in immediate danger, those at home, on the basis of the rules of protection. There are too many applications in which protection applications simply do not apply for many defined reasons. [[The president calls.]] Thus, this treatment period will be reduced and the situation will be more effective. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u106	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. Although he has not answered the question directly, I understand that this law may not be intended to increase efficiency. I agree with that. On the contrary, I believe it will. V.E.G. A minister noted that these changes are intended to ensure those who really need them, the protection they need. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Consider an example of a young couple with a newborn child, who have no housing, no access to medical services, no access to shelter, no hope, no indication, no hope of any change in this condition, or hope that the situation will ever change. Tells you the highest. The minister of justice for these people is not in real need?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u107	A respectable president. Certainly it wasn't a pretty picture that was drawn up by a young couple with a little child, but it's going through a protective system or not. We are primarily agreeing our legislation with what happens and walking in our neighboring countries. We are part of an international agreement here, focusing on our circumstances and resources in this bill for the rules of Europe and especially in the north. It is essential that these human rights are respected in the application land, i.e. that there is access to health care, access to housing, and such fundamental human rights. Whether our standard of living is the same as we know in Iceland, where living values are the best in the world, we can't judge in individual countries, but we know that we have a high standard of living here and they're not as good in other countries. [[The president calls.]] But we are primarily looking toward Europe in this context, where living values are generally considered to be very good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u108	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story talk. In 149, the legislature Council and 151. Those bills did not succeed. I see from the report that this is going to be a change, and I wanted to, in spite of the prehistoric debate. Minister, ask him to answer what is in his mind the most important changes from the initials that have previously been here for treatment. What is the most important thing in the mind of the highest. Minister of that subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u109	A respectable president. With all due respect for a question. In effect, I have to say that I find it difficult to go through these changes again. I went through them in very detailed cases earlier and asked people to respect that they cannot be counted back. It's a lot of things you've suggested here. Here they are trying to look out for the interests of those coming here, and they are actually in need of protection and the best way to treat them. The changes that have been made on the bill are that, in my opinion, this part of this section, the position of these people, is now a matter of concern. But I don't think I can go through the changes again. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator to respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u110	President. I was going to the highest. Of course, a minister of course, not for one minute, to reroute his testimony speech, I asked him to state the most important changes in his mind. But I pretended to understand him as being especially reasonable in what he had in mind in this regard. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what is likely to be the law of this bill, and there I am referring to the history that the primes of this class have been submitted three times and failed to succeed. As we read in the media, a panel of left - green members has made a so - called general warning about the matter. Expecting the highest. Minister to the council of the Left Green, which, of course, must be the basis for this bill to become a law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u111	A respectable president. I don't know which points I should list as a key point in what is more important than any of these matters in order to pay for and make it more efficient, but there are some that I covered thoroughly in my speech earlier. Do I believe this bill will become a law? Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for. As mentioned in my speech earlier, I was approaching the main issue of analysis that has been facing tests of Covid's disease. Now that the situation has changed, I believe that the committee will do much research and see if it is not to be removed. I think there might be an excellent media in this. In any case, that is the point of all the criticism, both in the realms of the administrations that I have participated in, and actually in the general discussion of the matter after that, may be a major criticism of the matter. [[The president calls.]] So it's over, and that makes me expect to see it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u112	A respectable president. This bill is the highest. Minister of Justice including suggesting a change of 33. a foreigner that includes a breakdown of services to those who have been shown their application for international protection. It is now that the services of the applicant for international protection are no longer under the legal language but have moved to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson. According to the President's decision, the Department of Social Affairs is responsible for matters relating to services to candidates for international protection. Twenty-seven, thirty-three. the law of foreigners, and the sentence of ordinances according to these ordinances. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Why is he, not the highest? a social minister who suggests a change to this kind of thing? I specifically ask that question because, at the same time, the Department of Social Affairs is making certain adjustments in the affairs of foreigners. Such prime reports from the Minister of Social Affairs lead the General Assembly. Then I'd like to ask if these changes are 33rd degree. you will agree with the highest possible dose. Social and employment secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u113	A respectable president. This has been a natural consultation between me and the highest. Department of Social Affairs, including on this matter at the government site before sending it to members of Congress. The matter was in there for some time, as we discussed it and were getting along on its bounds. In this regard this counsel has taken place and took place. You're right about what you're doing. A candidate for the ministry, either social service or public service, was replaced by a year's match between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. She was formerly with the Ministry of Justice in all respects. So these changes belong here, just like on that side. They take both steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u114	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of Justice for a very clear answer to my second question on whether it has been consulted at the highest level. Social and employment secretary. I understand the highest. Minister of Justice to settle these changes in 33 C.E. g., this demolition of services, and that has been consulted at the highest level. Social and workforce minister, that it's just cool with the government. Then I'd like to ask my first question again: Why is that the highest? Minister of Justice, but not the highest. Social Affairs Ministers who recommend this change when it is possible that the Minister of Social Affairs is measuring for various changes in the laws of foreigners? Why? Why is it especially involved in the case of the Minister of Justice when it is absolutely undisputed that this point is under the topic of social Affairs rather than the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u115	A respectable president. In itself, I have no further answer for what. A senator, but what I went over earlier. This legitimate service, which all of the people applying for protection, is to be obtained on the one side of social services, which runs on housing and transportation and access to health services, followed by the spokesmen's services to which the Ministry of Justice is responsible today, with its legal representative throughout the entire trial. When the matter has passed through, on the basis of legal grounds, and received its pay, both at the Foreign Institute and at the Foreign Commission of Foreign Affairs, and on the matter of independence, it is to be removed within 30 days, unless there are compelling reasons for the continuation of that time. We are here dealing with this service. It is under two different departments, and it is being dropped at the end of this period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u116	A respectable president. We here discuss changes in the laws of foreigners in the fields of two Ministers, and we might even argue that the bill is responsible for further discussions. However, this is where a basic change in services to candidates for international protection is proposed as part of the Social Services Ministry. V.E.G. A social minister was here in the hall earlier, and I think it is appropriate for him to participate in the discussion on this subject and hear what the Senate has to say on this matter. So I want it to be directed to the highest. President, ask him to call for the highest order. A social and employment minister will be present for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u117	Madam President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's son, for the Law code is being passed on to the subject. Social and employment secretary. As an example, later this evening, there will be discussed here a bill for a legal adjustment in the laws of foreigners that are dealing with the transfer of services between advisers. It clearly shows that the purpose of the bill to be discussed in the following day is to adapt the foreigners'law to that of the foreigners, including the foreigners. Thirty-three. Gr., we'll hear you under the highest. Social and employment secretary. So I think we must make the ultimate claim. Social and workforce minister coming in here and listening to the discussion under him and his sector. Another is unacceptable, Madam President, and I agree that the president shares in the Supreme Court. Minister, come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u118	A respectable president. Just to save this discussion, it may be that I have not spoken clearly about this responsibility since the completion of the trial, whether for the National Institute of Foreign Affairs or the Committee of the State, if there has been a refusal to stay on the grounds of protection, the subject of the Ministry of Justice is the subject of the matter. It goes off the Department of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice begins to enforce the law on expulsion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u119	Madam President. I'm going to agree with what was said. paritaprevir John Páll the son of Jóhannsson. There are other regulations in this bill that cannot be heard under the top of the task range. Minister of Justice. It is, in fact, there. to discuss changes in the law on professional rights of foreigners. It's obvious why this bill is wrapped into this bill; it's because it's because it's supposed to be the good change that is about having people on the basis of humanity in this country can get to work without applying for a special permit. The minister responsible for the lawsuits we are discussing is here in a house. I just want to agree with this, but also point out that your priorities are in a way that is being addressed in a situation where this positive law is included.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u120	A respectable president. I think it's very important. A social and employment minister comes in here and explains his view of this sect because I tend to remind him that when he was asked out on this bill and out of it, he was asked. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir in an unsubstantiated inquiry class not long ago, if he even saw the bill, he didn't even read it, he didn't even be made aware of the changes to a class he was responsible for. I'm wondering if it's the highest. Ministers have read the bill ever since. This, in turn, may have been the case at the highest level. Minister of Justice - I find it interesting to note that the group of paintings moves on as soon as candidates have been rejected for international protection at administrative level, but as the law is now, a respectable president, it is not. This legislation may be trying to change it, but it does not change that now, people who have received a final rejection of the administrative level are still candidates for international protection. 1st par. This bill is trying to change it. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, it remains on the table of the social and workforce minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u121	Madam President. The source of this bill's contribution is considerable. It has been imminent since the New Year's Eve, and we know it from previous councils. I don't quite remember when it was this spring that both financial and social ministers specifically referred to how they looked forward to this bill coming to the council, that there were important changes that the council needed to meet. Social Affairs has never explained what it means because as far as I can see it, it's just that there's nothing good about it. Even if it was only that it would be reasonable for the minister who is supposed to look after the rights of the refugees when they arrive in the country to take part in this discussion, just as the other minister would want to reduce their rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u122	Madam President. It may be that I have a wrong word at the top. Minister of Justice when he said the service was moving to the highest level. Social and workforce minister after the individual has been protected in Iceland. Of course, that's not so under the Precinct or the bill at the highest level. Minister of Justice will introduce you later. It is talking about the protection of the applicants, not those who have been brought here by refugees. It's a dual. Those who have received protection here are considered refugees and are defined as refugees in the sense of both international law and national law. Others are defined as protecting candidates, candidates for international protection, and this is discussed both in the bill to be presented below as well as in the Presidential decision No. 6/2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u123	A respectable president. There may be some misunderstanding here, I'm not going to rule it out. On the other hand, there is no misunderstanding, which might have been the main concern, i.e. to call this discussion to the Minister of Social Affairs on account of the responsibility he was given here, that at the end of the ministry in 30 days after the conclusion is made - that it was in his custody, as stated, even in the case of the court. of what? paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. It's not. The Ministry of Justice accepts the service when a decision is made at the Foreign Institute and the Commission of Foreign Affairs, and the subject is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice until the individual has left the country or has been able to move.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u124	Madam President. I just want to make right what I mentioned earlier. I don't know why this is the best reason. Governments. I find the reason that this bill, submitted by the highest standard. Minister of Justice, is a law that is truly heard under the scope of the task. Minister of Social Affairs. There is a change in the law of professional rights of foreigners. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs has already provided another bill for this council on changing the legal rights of foreigners to which this law was omitted. It's totally unacceptable that we're discussing cases that hear under the range of ministers who are not in the hall. I would also like to agree with what was said. paritaprevir Andrés, son of Ingi Jónsson, that this is remarkable in view of the fact that others are superior. Ministers in this government have had a word on what they look forward to seeing this bill on the program, although it is completely incomprehensible to me. [[The president calls.]] Rather, it would be a pleasure to have this discussion with the highest degree. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u125	A respectable president. I don't quite understand why it's the highest. A minister sees some special need to defend the highest. Social and workforce minister to show up here in the hall discussing his own topic areas and participating in the discussion. I would have thought it would be good just to have a powerful member of the government at his side to defend this atrocities at the highest level. A minister is here doing a donation and a discussion on this matter. It would be better, then, to be two against just the government side, at any point. Except for members of Congress. It is important to hear the voice of the minister responsible for the service to take away the trustees. It's just important to hear the voice of its minister. I don't understand why the highest one. A minister cannot come here and explain how he feels about this defender.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u126	A respectable president. It's just that in this bill it is being recommended for the change in the provision of a specific service to which candidates are entitled to conduct international protection. Here, too, changes are being made when it comes to the legal rights of foreigners. All of this is a matter that is totally undisputed under the topic of social and employment ministers. It is sort of word-held to act as soon as an application has been rejected, a service to the candidate must suddenly be heard by a whole new department. Thus the Law has not been interpreted as being an interpreter. So I think it's kind of a good idea to use it as some sort of reason that there's no need for a social and employment minister to be here in the area with us. [[The president calls.]] It is only voluntary and would deepen the discussion on this matter that a minister who makes certain arrangements for this service would be here in the area and participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u127	Madam President. As I mentioned earlier, it was the highest. Minister of Social Affairs that he looked forward to seeing this matter happen at the same time as the highest level. A minister of justice used this situation in Ukraine as fuel for the motor to pass this case on to the council. That was a disgusting time in which people in Ukraine were to be forced to increase the plight of refugees. But now this case is here, and we haven't yet heard from the Department of Social Affairs what it is that he sees so good in this bill. Besides the big movie, you could also talk to the top. Minister for the situation of disabled persons on the run. You see, there is a law in the bill as it is already known, since the Foreign Institute of Iceland can be a mild - tempered decision to people with a great need for support. It is only that the Foreign Institute does not believe people's claims on the need to support their disability rather than any other thing they say is believed in escape. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u128	Madam President. First, I'd like to reiterate a claim to the Supreme Court. A social and employment minister who takes people's causes to flee, when it comes to serving refugees and refugees, will be called into the room to discuss this matter that is being made up of changes that are coming under him. A respectable president. Here's a bill for changing the laws of foreigners that have been tried three times before to pass through the council in vain. Yes, Madam President, this is the fourth time we discuss the subject of this toxic bill designed to weaken the legal standing of vulnerable groups, people seeking protection from persecution, from wars, famines, natural disasters, and very few. Yes, the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir considers it a priority to limit the rights of those forced to flee their homes and request protection in a new place. Bravo. It is not as if nothing happened in the middle of the world, since this prehumanity was laid out in its last year, and it is amazing that members of Congress who give up their social debates, who publish their humanitarian policy in their policy, should allow this to happen once again. Yes, I'm offended. In the meantime, since the last of these challenges, war has broken out in Europe, Ukraine, which has driven an amazing number of people of all ages to flee and you are letting them stand here today. We have no idea how this war will turn out. We are becoming one of the greatest refugee struggles Europe has ever faced for several years, since the end of the second war, and here people only allow people to speak as if something foreordained at a council meeting is satisfactory. I don't know why the members of the Independence Party's Justice Council have been such a matter of the heart to restrict the rights of fugitives to this fourth time, four consecutive council members, to submit this bill that does not seem to be sound here at the council and not even a sound base for the government itself - now or what? It is not on the Independence Party to stop a progress issue that the left movement wants to offer. We had to drag the left movement to the country several times during the last term with all kinds of progresses, humanitarians, women's freedoms, but this runs through the government classes. I don't know why it's the highest. The left movement's social and employment secretary, the green bid, and the vice president of this company tolerates at the highest level. The Minister of Justice is repeatedly making changes in the laws that include a breakdown of services to candidates for international protection, a case as the highest level. The service minister is responsible. I don't know why the Agency's minister of education and child care is not a matter of fact, but I don't know why it's a fourth time here that puts out a bill that impairs the rights of the children to escape. Or what? Is he not the minister of the children to flee, just the children of Iceland, the adult children? Is it? Is that how it is? Are we going to make it this way, a respectable president, that we're going to use the children we provide here for protection? These include children who are in shock, children who have even known other children, children who have even been serving here, who have been given to go to school and school, children who have made new friends, learned the language, and children who are sent to the street in Greece because we love to go to Greece on vacation, and therefore we think it is a safe country. This bill should permanently prevent these children from being given the opportunity to have a safe home and appropriate training conditions. And the answer? Yes, we can't save everyone. I don't know why we're dealing with the impairment of people's rights at this time, while the number of refugees in Europe has never been higher, as the number of people who escape has increased from day to day and the plight of people in our neighborhood has increased. I don't understand or want to understand why in one of the richest countries in the world would feel that it is such a priority to weaken the rights of the people of the world that they are willing to recyclise for the fourth time a human antiquated bill for a change in foreigners that one of their colleagues has repeatedly warned against the council meetings. The report on the bill shows that in carrying out the laws for foreigners the need to correct, revise, and modify several of their measures for international protection to be carried out and treated in a clear, transparent manner. Clear and clear. What does this mean in English? Yes, when the bill is read, it is clear that its primary objective is to reduce the number of applications, to scare people away from coming here, to make it easier for governments to send people out of the country, to impair the rights of children, to cancel their rights to obtain a living permit after months and even years. The objective of the bill is also to prevent people in a particularly sensitive position who have been protected internationally in another state from getting their applications as much as surveyed in Iceland, except candidates for international protection for the minimal protection guaranteed by our administrative law. The application is not even open, it is not checked. The time candidates have to collect data and prepare for their case should be shortened. I reiterate that this is a case of escape that is needed at last when they are at their destination - they need an overwhelming effort to get all the way here, and then they need to start making data because many people have no data because they're on the run and do not have a secure Internet connection because they're sleeping on the street somewhere in the world. No, we're going to cut down the time they have to get the rest of the data. The bill also represents a major policy change when it comes to access of persons who have received a confirmation of their application to their basic services. The objective is to make starving people to cooperation, cooperation to return to inhuman and disrespectful conditions, even with their children. This is a very dangerous arrangement that will lead to an increase in black jobs and even forced work and living in a dangerous home not intended for farms. This, Madam President, will add to the plight of people and create soils for the breakdown, human trafficking, and organized crime. That's for sure, Madam President. It is clear to everyone who has ever worked in this group of languages. That is so, because you do all you can to save your life, even to be taken advantage of for someone else's profit. The actions and handling of the items under the law are neither vague nor untransparent, and it will certainly not be clearer or more beneficial to the changes recommended here. These are just fashion words, Madam President, which are now slippery to dust people's eyes. In other words, this has no meaning. For many years, the importance of evaluating and reviewing matters based on the individual circumstances of candidates has been repeated. It has been important that all issues be evaluated individually. It's legal, and we're committed to doing it this way in accordance with the international agreements we're in; to examine each subject. It has been important that all cases have this assessment based on the individual's circumstances. But here in Iceland, under the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, seems to have turned around. It is only to be clear and clear, in that people who have received international protection in another country have no business here and are immediately rejected by their applications, in contrast with the unexploited procedure now laid down by the law that applications should be viewed on an individual basis and considered on an individual basis as the sensitive position of the individual. All the most sensitive individuals will not get any credit because they are not examined. It's been a few cases every year, but now it's just not going to be examined. The government might thus consider itself to shorten a trial that seems to be the highest objective of the justice minister; shortening the treatment period. This has been one of the ways of the Independence Party's policy in the affairs of foreigners; more efficiency in driving people out of the country than more efficient in providing needed protection. At that time, people of all ages, children, and older people may wait for years and years as we work to make the system more efficient so that they can be thrown out of the country sooner. Madam President. By agreeing with this bill, it is clear that the reconciliation in foreigners who were seeking to create the production of existing alien languages will be completely lost to this inhumanity approved by the members of the council here. It should be noted that a bill to the present alien law was made up of the State Department of State and the Tripolitical Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, which involved an overall review of earlier laws about foreigners. However, there is no transnational Parliamentary committee in the affairs of foreigners today. No, it was just a government contract, but nothing happened. It was just this kind of introduction to the then Minister of Justice. The 2016 legislation was designed to take into account the needs of Icelandic society and at the same time ensure the humanity, efficiency, and success of those who are looking here. The Senate Committee then sought information, consulted a group specialist, went to the university community, spoke to the users of the system, and those who have been working on it, but there seems to be no consultation here. It's just a question of efficiency. But we need to avoid the policy of the Independence Party in the middle of people's affairs trying to do everything we can to put everything in place here, to pay the way of those who are too rich, who bring their companies here, and to lock up to people, children, older people, family members in search of protection, people who are fleeing from war, famine, natural disasters, and very few. All of this is supposed to produce clear and transparent legislation, but there is no regard for world conditions. Despite the efforts of countries such as Iceland to destroy their laws and shut the doors, the flight does not disappear. It doesn't matter if we take over our legislation, the position of refugees in Greece, with nothing to do with it. The situation of refugees in Greece also did not improve when Taliban took over in Afghanistan. Also, the situation of refugees on the streets in Greece did not improve when Afghanistan's emergency diminished. Also, the situation of refugees on the street in Greece did not decrease when the war in Ukraine broke out. Madam President. It is urgent and urgent to build a good, careful, reasonable background on the matter of fleeing people's affairs. The success of these matters can make a difference to an Icelandic community, since we need people. We need to be more numerous in order to live up to our basic service. We need people at all levels of society. And refugees are people of all sorts, with all kinds of background, with all kinds of education, knowledge, and experience. We need such people in Iceland. Building this wall won't give us anything. Nothing. It will only promote poverty, poverty of all sorts, social and spiritual aspects. I challenge members of the left movement to offer a green offer not to support this disgusting affair.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u129	A respectable president. Here's why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, now a lawyer, in my opinion, confused completely. She is here in an emotional field that is often brought up in this discussion, which, of course, cannot be understood. To discuss here that those who are in danger, those who are persecuted, and those who are at war are not protected and excommunicated is, of course, only false, as we know. The latest example, of course, is how we are opening a door to people from Ukraine, where people face a serious threat to life. The protection system is going on - it's a global emergency system - people in real distress set out properly. This bill does not weaken the right candidates. This weakens the rights or changes the rights of those here treated with a lawyer at their side all the time and through the whole control system, and on the basis of certain reasons, they have not been stayed here, not because they are being sent to countries where the threat of death and other threats to these people, far from then on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are referring these people to lands that we all know and where quality of life is with the best known in the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u130	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers for condemning the fact that you have feelings when it comes to running people's affairs because they reveal the situation a little. Laws are human activity, and it is okay to have feelings when it comes to human rights. That is not the case. Maybe it'd be better if it was the highest. The Minister of Justice would have more feelings when he writes a bill like what we're talking about here today because we're talking about people, just ordinary people. And trying to say that it's safe for people to live on the streets in Greece, that's not true. When people have had a status in Greece or Italy, it's not like they already have. The minister of justice decides to take a trip to Crete. It's just not the same thing. There is no shelter, either for the weather, for the winds, or for the rest. It's not. And I challenge the highest. Ministers to learn about escape situations, e.g. on the street in Greece. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u131	A respectable president. All European countries that follow their rules as we are ensuing this bill view of Greece as a secure country. All European countries, including the North countries, show people there if they have received protection or are thereby being protected by a case protection application. So what? In fact, a senator who now comes from a series of states and promises here and prays for involvement in the European Union is condemning the rule of order in these countries of her dreams. We are doing nothing more with this bill than bring us closer to the situation in the North countries. And to argue that this is some inhuman step in which people are not being kept in the rights of people, since we are not fulfilling the United Nations Convention for the protection of refugees, of course, is raw. And when I spoke of emotion, and it was gone to turn out of it, as should be from the head. A senator, it has nothing to do with the fact that I don't have that feeling, strong feelings for people who are in that problem, just not at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This simply means that we are here to support a trial that greatly increases the service of those people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u132	Madam President. There is a potential for cutting down a person's ability to present his case in his own country and in the circumstances that he has lived under in the state where he first came on the way to Iceland. These people are being undermined in their ability to demonstrate the circumstances in which they have lived. You see, there are times when people also find themselves trapped in the Kingdom they first come to flee, either because of circumstances on the street or because of personal circumstances. People have been sold into slavery, in sex labor, and in all sorts of disgusting refugees, but we are not going to open their applications because they were somewhere else. We do not intend to look at such matters in accord with our laws. We have the law to make sure that people do not reexamine situations in which their life and health are in danger. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u133	Madam President. I don't know exactly how to follow these words of the Minister. The emotional activity, perhaps, is talking down emotional sex in connection with a bill in which one of the goals is to protect humanity. Why are we on the watch for humanity? Is that not just because of some emotional activity? Why do we respect human rights? It's just emotional stuff. That's just a good argument. But it puts things in perspective. How the minister talks shows that the old phrase "Daffen Rule " is applied when possible, which appeared in the work of this bill of ancient times, is still floating over everything in this bill. The machine is to be embalmed so that all of these people that the Greek reservations do not protect are reassigned without even their movement. [[The president calls.]] If it doesn't trigger feelings in people who look at the bill, feel it's a disgusting bill that stays in the bag, then there are people who don't read evidence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u134	Madam President. Of course, humanity is based on an emotional assessment. I think it's inevitable. Humanity is not measurable, it is not a economic concept or an economic concept. I tried to answer the highest. Minister of Justice to discuss the humanity of allowing people to support themselves while awaiting a decision by granting them temporary work permit from that very economic situation. I tried to appeal to him to save money by allowing people to support themselves while they wait. But even that doesn't understand the highest. Minister of Justice. And it's strange to me because I thought that those who may have more difficulty understanding humanity might understand something like money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u135	Madam President. In answer to what. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríndóttir told the Minister that the bill was trying to protect the interests of those who come here and are in real need of protection. How do we know who are really in need when things are thrown out of the country only if they are not examined by them? And why is it necessary to make up a group of good refugees whom a minister wants to defend and the bad refugees who are to be sent to Greece without wondering if they really need protection? The gun that Iceland can provide to people who escape here from the defense system in Greece is a shelter from an inhuman situation. That the Minister of the seminars acts as if they have some strange motive behind their applications is a very treacherous saying, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u136	Madam President. Who really needs protection? Who's in real trouble? I would like to ask if the Albanian woman with the little baby, the woman who had walked 36 weeks, and many laws were broken at her expulsion, may have been in a real need for protection and care. Maybe we just let it lie in the air.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u137	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgadóttir gave her Helgadóttir an introduction to this discussion. I sent a written inquiry to the highest level. Recently, a minister of justice asked out in the proportion of individuals who are applying for protection that has already received international protection, within the petals, in another state, and who sought disunition on the basis of the government where the individual has been protected. The conclusion is that in the first place, the number is not nearly as striking as the highest. The minister of justice makes his speech known to an enormous number of people in need. I don't know any better than that. About 1,500 people applied for protection this year and for the success of it all. In 2021, there were 187 individuals who were protected in another country who applied for protection here. By 2020, there were 341, indeed more. [[The president calls.]] In 2019 it was 207. The vast majority of these individuals come from Greece and Hungary. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does that seem a coincidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u138	Madam President. No, I don't think it's a coincidence because circumstances and equipment in these countries don't provide real protection. Of course, that is unfortunate. Some countries have the brilliant idea of creating a refugee center in other countries. You wonder if it is morally acceptable to set matters that way. Of course, it is not by chance that people run off from refugee camps where there is no shelter. I just say as a family person, I would do anything to get to safety with my children. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u139	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Truly, it is not by chance that people will continue looking for protection when they face situations like refugees in Hungary and Greece primarily. There are also difficult situations in countries such as Italy and Bulgaria, and yet they are only counting on one hand the individuals from which they come. I'd like to correct something that was spoken in the highest language. Minister of Justice earlier, who spoke of the return of all other European countries, including Greece and Hungary, to those who had been protected in another country. This is not right in the sense that other countries have been using, though they are difficult to find, banning reimbursement where people's lives or freedom are in danger, not sending people back to those countries. These laws, also found in Icelandic law, were never used here on earth, and this is why these regulations are the highest. The Minister of Justice now wants to cancel Icelandic law in 2016. That's because Iceland didn't give these people the slightest audience. [[The president calls.]] And it's not right at the highest. Minister of Justice that this is the case in other European countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u140	Madam President. I decided to look up a story last year when a refugee camp came up on one of the Greek islands. On this Greek island, 13,000 people live in refugee camps. It arose in refugee camps in another location in Greece, where thousands live. And we allow ourselves here in Iceland to complain that 100 people will come and try to be protected and involved in our good society where there is a need for people, all kinds of people. I think maybe we should focus on something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u141	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir that there are far too many refugees in the world, there are too many people who are running away from horrible situations, and I agree that Iceland should do well when it comes to hosting refugees. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament about the fact that a large number of people are fleeing, and there are people who have been protected in many countries where the situation is truly different because I felt that they were not presented up for debate. Senator: Counts back. A senator that we should welcome all those who have been protected elsewhere? I'm asking why. A senator: Does it really think that there should be an entirely open border here? I couldn't quite understand a talk. A senator how she saw the system, whether she wanted a system, although I agree with it that things are terrible in the world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u142	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for the answer that I suspect is thinking about achieving a clear view that there isn't everything or nothing in these matters at all. It is not that those who speak for the humanity and affairs of refugees either want to open all borders or that they are completely closed. That's why I appreciate it. A senator is eager to ask this question. The point here is that the applications of those who may have received some kind of security stamp without being protected in other countries are being considered, that there is actually an analysis of the circumstances, any personal circumstances of individuals that are driven all the way here to Iceland, because that is what this is all about. Sadly, though, this bill is affecting people's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u143	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer is that I feel that it is important in this hall not to create a disagreement where there is no conflict, but to try to find out what it really is that we are at odds with. I don't agree - it's to be taken into consideration, it's not to be taken for material treatment according to the bill. These are things I think are worth considering. In addition, it is permitted to compromise a principle of protection if it is thought to be not enough for people. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Has she not taken a look at the rules of this bill that are just in order to increase the protection of people who will not, in fact, enjoy basic rights in the states from which they come? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u144	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's great reply for later is also important, just to explain further. My experience in this series of languages, which last a few years, is that in the case of highly estimating regulations, such as those contained in this bill, the order to start by saying no and saying no just until it can not be done anymore, i.e. The first response is no, we're not going to see the client, no, you're not right here, etc. A poor assessment of the individual's own situation is, unfortunately. This is my experience even with very serious cases, that they are dismissed on the basis of assessment that the individual may have some possible protection somewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u145	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the historical background of the bill to legalize the laws of foreigners as well as the members of Parliament who have given a talk or participated in objections or other matters for their introductions into the discussion. I'm here to say good-bye even if I don't know what to do with it. to account for my warning as I did before. paritaprevir This bill was made by Jódís Skúladóttir at the time of the convention of the left green, but it is about the total impact of the changes proposed in the bill, and that the perspective on efficiency and efficiency of the system must never be at the expense of general human kindness and justice, especially with regard to the status of those who are of sensitive populations. I believe this bill that we're discussing here, and actually related to the singles, both primes at the highest level. The Minister of Justice has introduced only earlier on the job rights of foreigners and will be recommended later this evening and the company's prime number. Ministers of society and employment have recommended that I think, in fact, be regulations that open the rights of foreigners and refugees while others are in need of trial and are even. for the duration of treatment with the treatment should be more rapid. The bill we are discussing here and now and before the council is substantially changed, both in the introduction and also in the subject, from the roots that have also dealt with the changes in foreigners, and the council has been for the treatment of the last councils, but have not been finished, including some of them. due to the indications seen in the management of the General and Education Committee. Either there has been no willingness or just no time to figure out and finish and just to see if the changes can be made in the rhythms of what is presented in it. So I believe the Committee has a great and important work to do here. I find what is written in the bill on authority to compromise the principle that even if you have received international protection in another state, the case will be as suggested by the proposal as it is not accepted for the material management of this country, it can be removed from the principle that you can't send people where their life and freedom may be in danger, and it will be necessary to see that a person is really enjoying the rights of the state's law which the State commands. These points need to be taken into consideration. I like it as it's stated here, but I think it needs a good opinion. It is important to have systems, both here and in other parts of the world, that make it possible for people who are fleeing completely unannounced and often to be made by world wars, to find safety in other countries. We have a lot of responsibility as a rich country and, fortunately, far from all the wars we face in welcoming people. Of course, we do not have one responsibility. I feel that it should be our waste to have a system that is understandable to those who need to rely on it and who work fast and safely but who also have the sensitivity to the human diversity and conditions that people are coming out of. I think there's a system waiting for people to come. The situation in the world is simply so that it must be. Of course, agencies, whatever their names, have to do their jobs well and professionally, be well - educated, and look to their point of view, and do not overlook those just listed in our legislation and in the laws that need to be looked to. That's how all our institutions are going to work. I look forward to observing the progress of this case through the Committee. I trust that this is a good job for his General and Education Committee. So, of course, I'll just evaluate what comments are made and how you can respond to them. As far as I can see, they're reacting to things that have been criticized so far, and they've put it in all other shapes. This is good, for if matters are not ended by law, the concierge treatment should affect how the bills return to the Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u146	A respectable president. This bill suggests that, without exception, those who have been protected in another State will be reimbursed without any physical treatment on their part. It is only clear in this bill; no exceptions, no consideration of the individual's circumstances, no consideration for disability, no consideration for the delicate status of the individual, no consideration for the child's presence, infant, in his/her own way, not taken into account. All they're supposed to do is send people straight to the street in Greece. That's what I'm talking about. A senator here in this hall, in this chair, is speaking that there is an acceptable sacrifice for a government service at the Independence Party. This is what she's doing right now. It's just very clear that this is what's going to take refugees if this government completes this mess, this act of itss. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator how she, whom I know, has human feelings in his heart, can justify this repugnance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u147	Madam President. No, it is written here that material treatment can continue to be handled on the basis of 3 mg. 36 st. The law and the 42nd. valid laws and conditions will be investigated. In other words, it is written that it is lawful to compromise principles. As I think I've done quite well in my speech, I like that word. But this is one of the things I think the committee should investigate, dig in, and look at as it has been because it is just here writing it when to take a case for physical treatment, despite another principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u148	A respectable president. No one's writing this in. It's in the current law. They are not being added to the law. It is a law that is already under current law. These terms are not being adjusted as a matter of course. A senator was referring to and felt that he could rescue the afflicted refugees. These provisions are already in the law. The Red Cross had this to say about the application of these laws on page 18. 12 In his review to this bill in the consultation guide: ▪ It should be noted that since the implementation of the current alien law, governments have never - never - never fallen into reimbursement of an individual or a family with protection in another state will lead to violations against 42 C.E. foreigners, although members of the Red Cross required treatment on the basis of all issues where the applicant has been protected in another state. [...] It will be an exception to the fact that applications in the application. 1.mg. 36 st. foreigners will be taken into account in this country with reference to specific reasons. Government interpretation of what is considered for special reasons has so narrowed over recent years, and government authorities have agreed on special reasons for just a few matters. To put it this will be a universal principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u149	Madam President. This bill, as it is here, has not been inside government consultations, even though other primes have certainly been. It may very well be that you have to put forth extra effort to apply the terms of that law. I am very close to looking to people's circumstances. Present - day alien laws are not designed to provide protection for all here. This can be just one of the things the Parliament can write in even more clearly, i.e. What view do they want to be viewed, since these regulations are of utmost importance. They are to look to the circumstances of people, and if they are the laws that come from us, we should demand that they be seen and followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u150	Madam President. Here we listened to a talk. A senator who is obviously trying to find reason not to lose sleep at night for letting this bill through the government. Hv. A senator has had things sold to him that are not right. That's what I'm talking about. A senator refers to a 3rd mg. 36 st. - I'm gonna repeat it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir said just now - it's never been used. The 42nd paragraph. the ban on resurgence of people in whom their life or freedom is at risk has never been put to the test. This is why in 2016, after the work of a joint body member, the decision was made to enter a law that if specific reasons were recommended, that is exactly what the law said, should be taken into account for the physical treatment. This was followed by a young family looking for two tiny children who had lived in a dump in Greece. That is why this source was inserted. I agree with what. A senator said that there was a good chance of explaining this in the law, because it would be easy to do so. þm. For example, in recent years, Þórhildur Sunna's rule has been slow and biting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, this source is not being explained. It is being canceled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u151	I want to pray. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u152	Madam President. In fact, I didn't realize that there was a question directed to me. But I just keep what I said, that the laws that are set up and in law about how to handle matters - of course, we should insist on them. There's nothing more complicated than that. We have laws, we have organizations designed to enforce them, and so it should be. Of course, if there are any instruments that are not being carried out by law, there will be the highest. Minister to follow through at his office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u153	Madam President. I don't even think it can be so optimistic to say that these guidelines are not used that are so clear and should lead to a physical application of matters. The reasons why the rule of banning people where their lives and freedom are in danger are not used when people have been protected in another European State are political, because the government will not agree that people's lives or their freedoms are in danger in another country. It can be as well as we've seen many examples, but it's not about to happen. So these cases do not fit to go to court because courts do not revise this evaluation by the government. I'm sorry to break your back. A senator, but this isn't enough. That's not enough. That law that's been in law all along. This warrant is being canceled. It is to ensure that a person who has been protected in another European country will be turned to the threshold without asking any questions. And that's why they put this in 2016. It is being destroyed by a single piece of paper that was done in political reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u154	Madam President. Some of the talks that have been delivered can almost be held that no one is allowed to enter the border and no one is protected. Of course not. Fortunately, we welcome a lot of refugees. But I think we can deliver even more. If it is so that I feel that protection is more effective for those who are expected to fit in with sensitive groups, then I think it is best to see that it is handled in the committee that the points set into law are applied, for of course we want the system to be effective. That's what we have the law for. So I'm just pointing it to what? The General and Education Committee that as soon as she examines all of this, it is implicated in the enunciation of the laws in force to be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u155	A respectable president. A few years ago, a few weeks ago, after the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, social authorities were announced because of foreigners in need after a child's family was on the basis of the new Regulation Sigríður Andersen disassigned. Today, we're gonna talk about a bill that's spinning, including... to establish the role of excluding candidates for international protection from basic services after receiving the final application. This includes: that children from rights, pregnant women will be removed from service, severely ill persons also, disabled persons with long - term needs, these groups will be deprived of services and housing, as well. Thirty-three. a foreigner, a social minister, is responsible but not counting on being in the gym with us to discuss. [[The president calls.]] My question to why. A woman in the left green is now just this: Is she proud of today's government community? [[The president calls.]] Is this really worth it? Is the point really the real purpose? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u156	Madam President. I just want to say, of course, there are things that are going on when you're in politics and when you're in a lot of public interaction and, of course, there's compromises to be made. It's just what needs to be done if you're not part of a political movement that has more than 50% of the votes. I'll just be honest with you about the discrepancies, and there's a lot of them. That's the way the world is, life is when you're involved in politics, and especially when you enjoy the privilege of being part of a government class. But I'd like to, Madam President, just to mention that the bill says: It is not permitted to cancel the rights of children, parents, or their overseers, and other members of the household, which include relatives of children, pregnant women, severely ill adults... So this will be discussed in the following article. A senator mentioned, but I believe that it is worth the examination, the export of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u157	A respectable president. Hv. Of course, in his speech, a senator could not conclude that these were the terms she was reading there that do not apply to certain matters. In certain matters, it is only that pregnant women, disabled persons, severely ill individuals are deprived of living and living quarters, no matter what. This bill, what's it all about? It's about what I went through. It is about excluding candidates for international protection from certain minimum rights guaranteed by citizens in administrative legislation. This is about excluding people who have been protected internationally in countries such as Greece and Italy, countries that cannot cope with the tide of refugees there, from receiving international protection in Iceland. Here comes a senator with green greens up in a pontt of grins and tells him that there are things going on in this government business. It is so incredibly sad and unpleasant to witness. There's a lot of things going on. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u158	Madam President. I've been here for a few years at a council, both in government and in government, and I might as well say, grinning that it's working out a lot of things when you're in my part. There's only a few things going on when you're in politics. That's just the way it is. I don't know what stage that is. A senator is referring to him. It was not in his case here what circumstances... [[Up front.]] If people cannot prove part of their case in support, it seems to me that if an application is clearly considered unfounded - then I want to come back to what I said earlier that we must be able to expect them to be followed in the law, that an institution follows when it's working things because it's a requirement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u159	Madam President. On July 16, 2021, he wrote a letter. paritaprevir It's a fine article for Þóra's Árnadóttir. It even reminds me of her. to protect the original purpose of the Dublin Union, which is to share responsibility for the arrival of refugees in Europe. That's what this is all about, that we shoulder our responsibility for international protection, and we don't use the automatic delivery button to shoot us off our responsibility as an independent state. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What has changed since last year? Why did the left movement allow this bill to be delivered through its party and to be paid off at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u160	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question. I'd like to say, "No, I haven't changed my mind. I believe that it is of importance that the world's state shares with us the responsibility of the world's population in providing people who are fleeing from a military home. However, it is also important that in order for the system to function, it is not being discussed in many places, for no benefit. So I think it is important to see that the situation in countries is very different and that the situation in different countries differs greatly, and that is why people in general should have a refuge where they have received it but there are exceptions from it, and this legal bill is possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u161	Madam President. Hv. The decision of 33 C.E. will be spoken of by a senator. and authority to the exception of illness, disability, and others that all of us must agree that need to be taken into consideration. I'd like to ask you what. Councilman: How will the left movement offer a green supply to ensure that these factors are taken into account? Who does that? Is it a general staff and Foreign Institute that in its own way appreciates who is in a more sensitive position, who needs special protection, and who doesn't? Or is there someone else who will be called in? As it is written into the bill now and in the routine, as we have so far seen, there is a great danger of mental decisions that do not base on a proper assessment of the need for protection. That's where the danger lies in this bill. It is that we deny people who are truly in need of protection for the protection they should receive by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u162	Madam President. While we have some sort of system of visitors to refugees, we do not just have open borders where everyone can come here - and as I understood why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir in reply last year, it is not the policy of the United States to have an open system, but that is exactly what we need to evaluate people's applications and positions -- then we have to have parties we can trust to review our applications. I agree that it is extremely difficult to review the way that sickness, disability, or other factors are being treated. But it is food for which institutions must be trusted. If that system isn't good enough, it's in my mind not to stop having any system but to improve the system and call the experts if necessary. It must be the way the system, as I've said repeatedly, is that we are confident that the laws we've passed are being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u163	A respectable president. I have to say, I find it very interesting that we are here to discuss services to candidates for international protection without being attended by the minister of the seminar. I don't think it's a good thing. I don't understand why he's not here. I'd like to ask the President to call the Minister who will bring these matters in to discuss these matters with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u164	Madam President. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read from the President's section on the switch between the management of Iceland's Management Board, which took effect on February 1. There is a law, a 27th number. g., to the highest. Minister of Justice will handle the affairs of foreigners, except for professionals, as will section 4. Article 2, and services to applicants on global protection, as per Article 3. This won't be much clearer. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's son that it is essential that the minister who has everything to do with getting away from people and making candidates for international protection come into the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u165	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's very important too. Ministers of society and employment come here to explain their case, especially as a result of the quality of moisture observed in the highest court. Minister of Justice and what. Þóra-Tanna-year-old Árnadóttir that there's too much refugees around here, that we can't have anything to do with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u166	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u167	It's just horrible. [[Up front.]] - That. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of Justice, sir. A senator, and a speculation. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir about whether we're just supposed to have an open border, we can't welcome everyone. It'd be nice to hear from the highest, then. Social and employment minister how many people we can accept, whether they have ever considered how much people we really need here. Who's the service force? Social and workforce minister based on the evidence presented in this discussion? Nobody's talking about an open border here. However, we may want to ask ourselves, " What responsibility can I take in the international context of the right now, when the need is most urgent? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u168	A respectable president. Again, it is necessary to correct the misunderstanding that floats over the waters of the lower section by the jurists. This bill is not about the rights of those in an application procedure for their protection and services. This bill is just not about it at all. This bill is primarily about what is taking place when the person applying for protection is given a revelation. Still, all of us here will receive treatment, even though other claims have been made. Everyone's speech is viewed. Although they come from and already have protection, since we believe a secure state, special issues are being looked at at at at at at at at the foundation. A respectable president. I can't believe that these lies are repeatedly held out for the sole purpose of trying to deceive those who are following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u169	What for?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u170	Madam President. I want to agree with what others have. Senators have said here; I would love to see the highest. The social and employment secretary of this discussion, both because there are a number of factors involved in his custody, but also due to the highest level. The social and employment secretary has made a public statement that he is looking forward to this matter for discussion at the council. I don't understand why and I really want to have this conversation with the highest. Social and employment secretary. Then I just want a little bit at the end, first the highest. So the Minister of Justice reassembled us here just moments ago that we were trying to trick someone, asking the highest question. Minister of Justice: Why should we be doing so? Why on earth should we have this case here if it wasn't because we're really worried about refugees being dismissed from the country? This is not the first time we turned down this bill. Not without reason. It's not in the air.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u171	President wants to know. Councilmen that social and workforce ministers are here at the Parliament's Hall have been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u172	Madam President. In view of the fact that this is called after the highest frequency. The Minister of Social Affairs, who, of course, is not the Minister who handles the case, the minister who handles the case here is in the audience and is in charge here and is involved in this discussion, and so is often called. But he's right here, and I don't see any reason why there's another minister coming to the house right now. Minister of Justice is sitting in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u173	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here and take my wish to the top. A social and workforce minister is in the hall to take this very important discussion with us. Besides, I think it's very important to mention how it's appreciated. What's the assessment? Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir said earlier, "What do you think? How many can we welcome, and where are the data behind this? How are these decisions made? It's important to discuss this. Making rules and saying, "Because there's too much - what's too much and why? " We just need to do it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u174	A respectable president. It's nice to be confirmed by the highest level. The minister is not going to grant a request for the government's opposition to come to the house. For a word or two. The chairman of the council at the highest. A minister who sees no reason for the minister to come here, I must assume that it is the minister's stand. However, here are laws that are heard under the minister's language field, as we have repeatedly been on, both services to refugees and also laws on the employment rights of foreigners who are being changed by this bill and belonging to the topic field. Social and employment secretary, as in fact a service to the trustees, to services to people who are applying for international protection. Of course, it's just sad that he doesn't exist to come here and stand for his case, the same man who looked forward to having that nasty bill right here in this hall. I'd like to know why he's looking forward to it. What should we look forward to in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u175	A respectable president. Just to answer what was stated here: What is too much? It's not too much. There's nothing to talk about putting some quota on refugees in this bill. They're talking about the trial. There's nothing to talk about. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir referred to a First Order earlier. The only thing that was wrong in her language, and is fundamental to it, is that this bill is not about services to candidates. It is a foolish, respectable president to be calling for another minister. You can then call on the whole government to attend a case with other stewards. [[The president calls.]] I don't remember the repeated repetition of such a request, which is unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u176	Now I think that others don't want to make comments to the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u177	Madam President. I'm not sure I'm taking too much into myself when I say that the bill we're discussing here today is one of the reasons I volunteered for the Generals. I've been working with refugees since 2009, especially with candidates for international protection in Iceland. There have been changes in law and laws at the time I have been working on this class, but in recent years they have, unfortunately, been for the worse. This bill is one of the finest examples of it. In 2015 certain events led to a growing number of refugees who came to Europe. Europe reacted in various ways. The General responded by reviewing their legislation and from the bill becoming a legal arrangement for foreigners who are the current law on foreigners, No. 80/2016. Although they were not in many respects what I would write, they were greatly rewarded for the welfare of refugees, an important compensation. One of the most important laws that came in was the law now available for removing a bill with the highest power. Justice minister, authorized and in many cases obliged, the government to consider the cases of individuals who are looking here, although they have received international protection, a fugitive's position, in another country in the past. Before 2016, before those laws went into effect, this was not possible. Then the law was like the highest. The Minister of Justice wants them in this regard. Then it was so that if people had obtained the status of a fugitive in another state then it didn't matter what circumstances they were there, nor why they searched from there and went on, but they received a revelation. What makes this so interesting is that what led to this law coming in, came up to this committee's discussion, made its way into the bill, was some subjects in Iceland, there were some individuals, flesh and blood who were so fortunate to be in the position that they could handle the media coverage and have connections to make up for it. In fact, it went so far that they attended in the area of the city theater where they told their story, showing that they were people of flesh and blood. They had been in Greece for over a year, if I didn't forget, with their two daughters in their preschool. In Greece they had been on the streets without shelter, without access to food except in churches and charitys elsewhere. They had no chance of finding employment and no place to live with their two little children. They went on to Iceland, got an audience. In fact, they were denied an audience. They were not denied protection; their case was dismissed from the Foreign Institute. What follows is that they receive this press coverage and this much attention, and they set out for a collection of signatures. I can't remember the number of signatures that came that time, but the numbers were quite large. As a result, they were granted land emancipation by what I choose to call the legal rights of the judicial committees of foreigners. So strange were these trapezes that it did not seem to be easy to go that way to help people in this position but was adopted as the highest standard. The Minister of Justice now wants to cancel the application, if specific reasons recommend giving people in this position, and possibly international protection in the country following. I could seriously discuss what I believe is the current implementation of these regulations, but it is clear that the problem is not that this warrant is present. Unchecking this document is not the correct answer to the challenges faced by the Icelandic system. The figures I mentioned in my opponent just before appear from the highest level. Minister of Justice in response to my inquiry, which I addressed to him earlier this year, about how many people looked here after being protected in other countries. From these figures it is clear that there is not a number of people sinking in the Black Sea. There were over 150 individuals in 2019, up to over 250 in 2020, and again in 2021. Based on the number of people who go to Iceland in 2022 who haven't received the status of a fugitive in another state, I assume that this group will be just a fractured by the people who are looking here. It won't solve any problems to bring these people back to the scrap heaps in Greece. This is not the Icelandic system's problem. The Icelandic system's problem is exactly the other way around. It is that cases that might, in fact, be considered on the table, such as cases involving family and people in a similar situation - more people in a similar situation have sought here, children's families and weak individuals, disabled people, women who have been severely abused by sexual abuse, even in the reception state itself. People have been looking for this position, not 1,500 people, not 1,000 people, not even 500 people. This isn't the problem. The problem is how long it takes to check these people through the system before they are referred away. In the end, the public may come to know the intention of government atrocities, and they may be moved to reverse it. It'll take a long time. It takes a very long time that is not both expensive and bad for the Icelandic system but extremely bad and serious for these individuals too. Then comes another judicial hearing, which came in 2016, which is also available to destroy by means of the highest bill. Minister of Justice. It was a requirement also included in 2016 that if a matter of non-meditated material therapy exists, to dismiss it without looking at it - if it has been in progress here for more than 12 months, it should be taken into account for the treatment of the material. This law was set in after more and more judicial cases were held, where individuals had been here for three or four years without even deciding whether to open the case. Every man sees it's crazy. That is why this law was set in motion, a law that stated that if the case had been in operation at the Icelandic government for more than 12 months, it would take care of the material. There are also small defenders, unless the individual himself is expected to be responsible for the delay. That may be considered correct, even though he was truly strangely interpreted, some of which are still before Icelandic courts. With the highest bill. The Minister of Justice is actually here to replace this completely. That's why I think it shoots back, as I pointed out in my answer to the highest degree. Minister of Justice before, to speak of efficiency. It is said that one of the main objectives of these changes is to increase efficiency. Of course, it does not add efficiency to the removal of laws that have actually been one of the greatest legal reforms in this series since the publication of this law in 2016. This law has cut short a court case for many years in many cases where the United States yearns and tries to get people out of the country but will not succeed in less than 12 months. Then all you need to do is take the matter into account and settle down with these individuals. It has been my feeling that if a lawyer works in this category with these people, in the treatment of their case at the Foreign Institute and the Exhibit Committee, the government will consider it to be the case if they fail at the time, every 12 months - people are being listened here and finally protected - if they have lost, if anything crazy, they should not. Therefore, changes are to be made in order to prevent this from happening. By pressing a trial? No. By making it a point that even if 12 months have passed, the Icelandic government can continue to do all within its power to evict people. The only purpose of this law is to reduce the possibility that people will be able to sit here after a long stay and even after a long trial by the government. Changes to the highest. A minister of justice on this law says that if the individual or his or his parents, his children, aunts, uncles, or rains, or I don't know what, at some point it might have had some effect on the delays in the treatment of the situation. It's really exaggeration, it wasn't a direct quote, but it was about that. What's best for this check - this might sound natural to someone. Okay, if the bands aren't on the responsibility of the Icelandic government, is it not reasonable that these deadlines fall for themselves? I say no, but I understand that stand. But I'd like to point out how it's being done. We had a lot of cases here not long ago, since the Icelandic government, U.S. Thus, from 2017 onward, it was confirmed by a panel of foreigners, people who were not referred back to Hungary because of the circumstances of refugees in that country where they are even severely abused by police and are completely cast out of the community, which is confirmed in all official sources of the situation in Hungary. A foreign agency began changing this project by calling these individuals in interviews and talking to them about Hungary instead of simply taking these matters to treat, giving the status of a fugitive whom they were truly entitled to, and no dispute, letting them start their lives and even starting a family partnership or something else. No, then the National Institutes of Iceland will start putting these matters into what we call a metaphylaxis, i.e. to see if they cannot somehow be restored to Hungary. This raised such a legal disagreement that most of these cases, which I don't know exactly, were somewhere in the range of 10◯50, went two laps through the system. A decision was made by a foreign agency. The case was reported to the non-convict panel of foreigners who canceled it, sent it back to the Foreign Institute of Iceland, which made the same decision that the jury finally confirmed that they should not be assigned to Hungary a week before 12 months have passed, even the day before 12 months have passed. We have a real example of a man who was moved out of the country the day before the 12 months had passed. He's in Hungary today. Many of these individuals did what they could to try to avoid moving, most of them with the help of their lawyers and along the lines that are perfectly legal and normal and that cannot be considered in an effort to slow down their speech. The case may have taken 11 and a half months, and if it was delayed by three days, because the lawyer wanted to be re-enacted or asked for a new appointment for medical time, the charge is delayed. That's the way it's interpreted. The Icelandic government takes 11 months to work, but during the last few months, there are problems: No, the bands were responsible for the defendant, the 12 months are not relevant. The Icelandic government can continue with all its power, which is pretty great, trying to get people out of the country. This process is still under the control of the people, and it has current laws. That's where we're talking about the law they're talking about without the changes they're making at the highest level. Minister of Justice wants to do it. This bill is taking back and destroying legal improvements made on the system in 2016, not in the name of efficiency. It's not about efficiency. It's not gonna lead to more efficiency. This is done solely in order to limit people's opportunities to sit down here, to search here for shelter and decent life, where they can provide shelter and protection from violence, so that things like health care, education, and other things that we think are most welcome but are considered luxury in this business. I encourage the entire U.S.R. to look at this matter, look at the reviews that have been received, and are going to be spread around it. I would like to appeal specifically to members of the left movement because I do not believe that this is a matter in harmony with their foreign policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u178	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for ousting from his fountain of wisdom in this group, which is considerable and very important in this discussion. Sadly, these issues are being misdirected. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's point on the fact that a delay that is not to be blamed for international protection will be on the subject. Know what I'm sayin'? A senator on the issue, not one, but more, in which there is a delay due to the delay of police handling passports in an effort to find international protection where litigation was much longer than normal, it can be assumed that such a simple matter is involved? It was not a delay the candidate was responsible for, but the government considered this to be a delay due to a delay or a delay to which the person is responsible -- man at least. A senator by such examples? Second, I'd like to ask what. Senator to Unit 1. the bill where the law is being changed, the definition of the applicant's global protection, i.e. to number 25. is improved by a new case, as follows: A foreigner is not considered to be an applicant for international protection when he/she has finally come to the conclusions of his case at the administrative level, to mean that he is no longer an applicant but a foreigner. And then you wonder how 5. ..... change in 33. ............... may fall below 33. in which an article on international protection is discussed. Is this not a legal mismanagement, causing inaccuracies and misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u179	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions, which are really good. Yes, I would like to agree that much of this bill is, I think, legal indiscretion. There are a number of factors that will cause problems in interpretation, and it is a question of whether human rights contracts and anything else are going to be met, and surely this will not improve the effectiveness of this class. With regard to the delays that may occur in the move from abroad after the final result has been reached at the administrative level, this is a very important question from now on. Senator. There is another change to make in the law that does not improve efficiency and is reversible from what has been done. It is that this 12-month set of deferrals has been interpreted as 12 months from the time of the person's application until his removal. This should be adjusted to mean 12 months from the time he applies until the case is completed at the administrative level. That means the police have the rest of the life of this person to try to get him out of the country and it will have no effect on his legal status here on the country. That's another thing, because I could stand here all winter talking about what I think is wrong in this bill. I've forgotten the senator's second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u180	It's the signature of 33. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u181	- Yes, that's about the definition of international protection. It's one of the most serious things in this bill, because everything is one of the most serious things. Of course, it is obvious that the purpose of this, i.e. that a person who has been turned on by the administrative level is no longer considered to be an applicant for international protection is to deprive people of their rights. It is based on an important misunderstanding, which is the amount of 8,000. that people get in a week from the Foreign Institute is the reason people are in this country. It's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u182	Madam President. I thought only of that law 33 C.E. and its signature, which is simply the rights of candidates for international protection, if they are placed in that room by people who are not candidates for international protection but only foreigners. With the highest bill. A minister is being appointed to be a foreigner, a non-employer according to their sense, in the position of no longer having rights. Still, the same law contains the exception of a person who will return - well, what? Candidates for international protection or foreigners. In the case of a foreigner who is in need of some help, the stranger may go to the rural community and apply for the so-called emergency assistance of foreigners, foreign citizens, who are here in distress, who are not candidates, but are just completely defenseless. There are people who have come here who have all been stolen from them and who have been able to get the help of a local partner, and it's their responsibility to provide such assistance. This bill is, in effect, throwing people out of the definition of international protection, to be expected to be just a local foreigner, who is then up against the rural communities. Is it not true, then, that this will follow some funding to your country to provide a source of what will be thrown out of the definition of international protection for candidates?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u183	Madam President. Thank you. A senator again for these important questions. Indeed, it is about removing a particular service, and it is actually being thought over to another system. Indeed, the community service of the local community provides a visitor in distress, as it is called, a specific help. This usually goes outside to help people get home, including helping with the buy of airline tickets. A senator mentions. Obviously, people are being put in a much more difficult position and, in my opinion, this loss of service is based on the misunderstanding that the minimal service people receive while waiting for an answer to a global protection application is what keeps people in the country. However, it is not. What happens is simply that these people face a more difficult situation than they already are. For this reason, I would like to read from the Red Cross review of the bill with the permission of a president: ▪ Adopting a down payment on people's basic welfare can lead to serious problems. Concerned individuals would thus be exposed to all forms of dissociation, man trade, and violence. The change would have affected Icelandic society that homeless people would grow, poverty and distress. At the same time, there would be an increase in the likelihood of harmful behavior and crime. Clearly, as the change continues, pressures on the local community and the police will increase. This is clearly what will happen during this change because it is not that a person who thinks he is in danger in his own country or where he is to be transferred will just jump on the next plane because he no longer receives food money. No, it's not. People apply here because they really don't think they're safe in the world. What happens when people are removed from service is that they will be without service, and there is no benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u184	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to change the foreign law. I'm just gonna go over something that's preferably in the eye of the first tour of this bill. First of all, it is the process described in both paragraphs 1. The bill and 5. This is the type of service that has been referred to here much: Those candidates for international protection are removed from the court for basic services once they have received a final application. That's what's taking effect in 30 days. So this was the subject of a speech. A candidate's left green to have certain replacements in this directive, but I think it's important to remember that these are not relevant for matters where candidates come from a state of state that is listed in the National Institute for a secure source and application has been clearly considered unrecognizable. This is, in effect, a change in starving certain groups to cooperate. This is a bit shortsighted because, as we have considered, these groups would expect that they will need to be assigned to a community service. I feel that there is a measure of concern here that the interpretation of the local alien law of 33 C.E. has been made. and its ordinances somehow stopped applying for foreigners, about international protection candidates, as their application has been refused, or at least I have not understood the highest. Minister of Justice, different. It is certainly so that in the bill we are here today, it is being written into the law that a foreigner is not considered to be a candidate for international protection when he has received the final conclusions in his case at the administrative level. Of course, the implementation of the current law has been, so people have been entitled to this service and have obtained it unless specifically removed, e.g. of Regulation and etc. Two. This bill is recommended to demonstrate the treatment of matter based on Article 36. are automatically charged with foreign hearings unless the applicant specifically wishes not to press charges. The report of the complaint will be received within 14 days of the release of the decision. This includes shortening the time candidates have to submit and obtain data. This is where it has been claimed that this bill is merely moving the system closer to that in other northern countries. However, here we have a clear example of the fact that it is actually making the time candidates have to contribute and provide data shorter than it is in most parts of the North countries. If we take a look at 6. This bill is about leaving applicants on international protection from certain minimum rights guaranteed by citizens in administrative law. This is shown here in the final paragraph of this article: Article 24. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993, for re-uptake decisions on international protection issues. 7. This includes the exclusion of international protection in other countries, such as Greece or Italy, from being able to receive international protection in this country. Yes, yes, it refers to an exception that is already in the current law but has never been new, as if it would change something wonderful here. That 7th hole. is, of course, just a setback, these are candidates who are often in a more delicate position, have long been fleeing, have lived in unsatisfied and miserable conditions in refugee camps on the edge of Europe, where conditions are not available to humans. In fact, with the current proposals, Iceland is taking less of a share in accepting this international responsibility in Europe to welcome people. We further detract the people into Greece and Italy, a crisisd state that is struggling to meet refugees. Here, too, it is in a way that has been introduced some form of universal Order, a warrant to deny all who have come to or have had ties with other countries, where they need not fear persecution. This is, in fact, very broad for interpretation. Even this could be interpreted to mean that people from Ukraine who first went to Poland, Moldova, Hungary, or Afghans who first went to Turkey, Syria who came to Italy through Egypt, Libya - this is a greasing source that you can imagine could be used against these groups of refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u185	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator does things here, including... to his subject of the Order of Dublin, this Conspiracy. For this reason, I would like to draw attention to the voice of the government that we need to dismiss as many of us on the basis of the Order of Dublin and for other reasons, because we cannot help everyone. Recently, there was an unexpected invasion of Ukraine, and it was immediately assumed that millions of people would flee from it, which they did, and that some part of them would search to this land. What was so remarkable was what happened there, which, in many respects, was truly beautiful, though it was unpleasant to feel that there was a certain difference between the application of laws and government measures to different refugee groups - people who turn to the country from Ukraine, in the vast majority of cases, have subsided in other European countries before coming to this country. Actually, it's quite complicated. I'm not gonna spend the 30 seconds I have left to cover the reasons why there may be some other state being responsible for an application, but it's clear that they are very much relevant in the Ukrainian affairs as well. On the other hand, the Icelandic government decided not to apply the Order of Dublin to the affairs of these people. I don't have the latest numbers on rhythms, but I understand there are about 1,500 people who have been looking here. Iceland hasn't sunk yet, and now it looks like it's all going to be pretty good. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that Iceland will sink into black waters if we would simply stop applying the Order of Dublin?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u186	A respectable president. Would Iceland sink into deep seas if we stopped using the Order of Dublin? I doubt it very much. In any case, I think it's perfectly clear that there's absolutely no need to use it in this mechanical way that has been practiced here in the last few years and decades. We also need to remember that this is not a universal rule, it is a law authority. The Regulation must be used with a degree of forethought, not by the means of which it is used systematically to keep as many people as possible from Iceland, and even completely without regard for the world's situation, elsewhere in Europe. We need to share with other European countries in shouldering this collective responsibility to receive refugees, and this will not be done by using the Dublin Protocol on every occasion to dismiss people from the country. And it will not be done with this campaign of foreigners, which will appear in this ugly bill we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u187	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer, as it were, is: No, I don't think Iceland is going to sink in the ocean by the small number of people who are looking to this country. There are not a lot of people, either in proportion or in numbers. It's a little interesting to think about it as a matter of course. A senator mentions, which is the original purpose of the Conspiracy; it is said to ensure that people receive an audience in some country and are not making a difference between countries without any authority. This was certainly a problem before the Dublin Union got into, but there is not as good a reason for the death of the Dublin Protocol as for the other reason that was to prevent what is called in English, by permission of presidents, Šasylum shopinged-depth, i.e. that individuals in one state applied for protection, received a revelation, went to the next state, and tried there. One of the main purposes of the Dublin Union is to prevent this. The problem is that this will not be thwarted by the Dublin Union. I have had clients that have more pages of art on countries where they have visited and sent back and forth at the cost of the State in the name of the Dublin Union. The second main purpose of the Dublin Union is, according to one report, to ensure the European Union to receive refugees. Nor is this true because, as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has pointed to them, it meant that we would use the Order of Dublin to the fullest extent that we were using 17. More often: If there are any special reasons, however, a matter should be handled for material treatment, even though someone else is permitted to be referred to. It has not been used in this way, and it has even been criticized by the United Nations Refugee Organization. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that the effort to achieve the good ends of her sentence will be achieved by a Christian?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u188	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer and for her contribution for today's discussion. It's very nice to listen to her and other members of the council here, e.g. another good lawyer, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, discuss these matters that they know better than many of us, including them. Me. In fact, I don't think Iceland is the only country to abuse the Order of Dublin to try to get rid of it - getting rid of people who seek protection. In fact, I think even in Europe there is a fairly widespread opinion that there is a need to reevaluate certain aspects of what was laid up in it and that there are things that have come to their own years. So the answer to a question is why. I guess a senator's a yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u189	A respectable president. This government is hostile refugees. It is clear to me after a few years of experience in the conduct of this government, both during the last term and during this election period, in the case of refugees. It's just very clear that this government is hostile to refugees. Consider one recent example. A year ago, more than 20 candidates for international protection were referred to God and filled in February. Let's keep that in mind, in February. That was not in harmony with the law. It broke the rights of these refugees, who for more weeks were then deprived of housing, production, all services because they refused to assist with their own deportation, mainly to Greece. That's what this government did during the last term. During this season, she is going to try again to put this illegal operation into law. She intends to make it possible now that she can legally deprive people of all rights for refusing to assist her own deportation to God and the sea. This is what we have with this bill. I didn't notice that it was the highest. The minister of justice then had some responsibility to have known and participated deliberately in the removal of over 20 trustees of housing, services, and services in complete violations of the laws and rights of these refugees. She did not even apologize for her vicious conduct. This is one example. It has been mentioned in the case of a pregnant woman who was forced up on an airplane despite being far too far along and despite the instructions given by a health - care professional. We all remember all these matters, all these children, who have known nothing but Iceland, who are to be thrown out of the country. They've been allowed to be in Iceland for protesting public protests, protesting that they should be sent out to the uncertainty, in terrible conditions for Greece or other even worse countries. And now it's time for gold to be assured that these protests cannot occur because they are to be sent abroad immediately, before they can make friends who speak for them in Iceland, before they meet any Icelandic person, because they are now to be reassigned on the basis of the Cysician principle. In other words, this unpleasant protest by the public in the country, which calls for the fact that this government is showing some humanity toward refugees. To ensure that these protests can no longer occur, people do not know about the people who are to be sent directly to Greece. This change goes on as well. Of course, it is to ensure that people can be forced into medical treatment, preventing refugees from refusing to undergo a PCR test, which is what was standing in their way and led to their former Supreme Court. Minister of Justice threw 20 refugees on the street because they refused to undergo a PCR test. No law allowed them to be forced into this treatment, so instead they were to be forced into medical treatment by throwing them on the street. In fact, there is no legal warrant, but it does not seem to matter to the green and caring government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. In any case, there was no significant result for the minister involved. Now these two things are to be accomplished. In fact, this has been tried three times before. This bill, three times, has been rejected by the council because it is hostile to flee. Now it's time to try the fourth time. Now, somehow, we're going to try to convince ourselves that it's a human bill. Words could easily be understood. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Arjörn's Árnadóttir, that there was now a lot to do to open the door to refugees. We'll hear what it is. It is to make sure that people who have been protected in Greece, whom we know, have no way of attracting life in a decent way, are not even to tell their own story here, they will be sent right away, totally taken away from their circumstances, completely from whether they live in disability, whether they have been sexually abused, whether they have been in the man - made. None of this is important to this bill. This is a bit ironic, since the National Institute of Iceland has held it against a better awareness for more years that the Agency must send all people back on the basis of the Order of Dublin. The law gives them no choice, which is wrong with current legislation. But now their dreams finally come true, and they can send them all straight out of the country, and they can honestly say that the law would make them, because if this law is accepted, it is, and then it will be. Now it just so happens. Hence, the Minister of Justice, in this case, insisted that all viewed Greece as a secure land to send refugees. It's not. I just want to encourage the highest. Minister, who for some reason has rejected the Red Cross as a means of escape, in order to read at least The comments of the Red Cross on his disgusting bill. It clearly shows that there are several countries in Europe that have stopped sending refugees back to Greece, although they have been protected there because of the unacceptable conditions in that country, because there are legitimate reasons to worry about reimburse this country against Article 3. The European Convention of Human Rights, which turns to protection against torture and other dishonorable treatment or punishment, the fundamental right to live with human dignity and not to suffer dishonor or punishment. So it's just wrong, which is the highest. Ministers here claim that all of Europe's countries consider Greece to be some kind of secure ethnic state. It's just not. It has been shown, and only very clear, other terrible things that this bill will bring in for the people's rights to flee. It has been noted that under administrative law, people should be removed from their minimal rights. In effect, this is to be made up of second-class people who do not have the basic protection of government law. That's what it's supposed to mean, "resurrection." It should shorten its ability to speak for itself, to provide further data, in order to respond to the findings of the Foreign Institute of Iceland, which has repeatedly occurred as the result of insufficient investigation of the success of international protection. This also shows the Red Cross in its review of this matter, that the Foreign Institute does not carry out its educational duties to candidates for international protection, especially their obligation to see if the circumstances for international protection are in a way that they are considered to be of particularly more sensitive groups, something that should arise in order to protect them on land. But this repeatedly ignores them, as if they repeatedly ignored the requirement to determine whether there is a threat to a return to the country. What is referred to now, including of what? paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, that there are now exceptions that keep people from being sent into situations if they are particularly vulnerable, are regulations that have been in the law for a long time. That's a law we're supposed to have under national rights. It is a law that is never used. Never. This is also shown in the review of the Red Cross, which I encourage. A senator and a chief. A minister to read, in view of the claims, the false claims they have made on this matter. Finally, I want to make sure that my subject is another law in this bill, which I believe has not yet received enough coverage. It has to do with the fact that authorities are now authorized to obtain medical information, to obtain medical records, to gain confidential information, not just to applicants about international protection - to those who may just care about refugees - no, about all foreigners in Iceland. It is being authorized by the authorities to obtain sensitive personal information, medical records, all of Iceland's foreigners. That's what's being done with this bill. That's a huge, respectable president. It's just that it's really far-fetched. But this is to be done in a government produced by the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, who has recently taken to heart human rights in that government. She approved this case through the government, knowing that this will swarm people's human rights to flee, not just the refugees, but all the foreigners in Iceland. The present alien legislation is bad enough. She even hides. In particular, a stranger in Iceland is obliged to carry his own IDs at all times. They always have to have IDs on them. If the police stop a foreigner and he has no ID, the police have come up with a convincing suspect to perform a search on the person's house. This is really in our current law. It is enough that the person has no identification, and the police can go to court and ask for a search warrant because they have a logical suspicion to see if the person is legal in the country. This warrant has the police. If she feels that she is at risk of criminal damage, she may be consulted without the authority of a judge. That's the law now. In other words, it should not only make matters worse but also put coal on top of it by giving authorities authority to obtain data from the medical records of all foreigners in Iceland to ensure that their status in Iceland is legal or that they can be definitely referred to or received as one certificate of vaccination to help send them out of the country. It's being placed in the law. How should foreigners trust health care professionals in Iceland if they know that their health information does not have the same protection as the health information of the Icelanders? What kind of community is it we're building with this law here? What kind of disgusting class distinction are we starting here? First-class and second-rate individuals here enjoy second-rate rights, and some enjoy none, and they are dismissed at their arrival. This government is hostile people on the run, not just refugees. This government is hostile to people of foreign origin.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's regulations 5. the bill is talking about the delinquency of the rights of foreigners, who have received a final review of international protection application 30 days after the end of their rejection. It explains that it is not permitted to cancel the rights of children, parents, or their overseers, as well as those of other relatives of children, that services to pregnant women and severely ill and disabled persons with long - term needs. A bill report says, with permission from the President: ▪ Severe illness refers to those who are not fully capable of taking care of themselves, whether because of mental or physical illness, and if their rights were canceled, they would be seriously threatened. I am only stopping because a person who is seriously ill may be able to take care of himself if he receives proper health care, medication, and other medical care. This may be a person who needs a kidney machine regularly, or who needs to receive some form of treatment regularly, or who needs some kind of scan to be checked regularly - some kind of medical treatment. He can attend to his daily life, can take care of himself, as the law says. Who's going to appreciate this? [[The president calls.]] Who is available in this town, and how should those in need of health care receive it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u191	A respectable president. That's an interesting question. Senator. I count even. that the new source being entered into the law on the permission of alien authorities to obtain medical supplies should include: to evaluate this, but if there are individuals in the Foreign Institutes of Iceland to evaluate this, I don't know. Of course, what makes it worse is the fact that this applies, e.g. I'm not talking about people who are going to be re-enquitted to Greece, this parole about people who can't even take care of themselves, like a dog. A senator came in here. It is excluded if it belongs to the group of refugees who come here after receiving protection in Greece, where they simply cannot approach vital health services with reliable means; pregnant women, people with disability, all these groups, children who are left behind to, I don't know, allow some souls in the VG to sleep better at night. This does not apply to people who are coming from Greece or Hungary or Bulgaria or whatever they are, those countries that are already interpreted as a secure source. Absolutely away from the food, who should appreciate it, all these defenseless people will not remain in this service because they come from a so - called secure state, such as Greece or Italy. As a result, it may not matter who considers it in the case of them, it may not even be appreciated. It doesn't matter. It won't be easy to send people to Greece who can't take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Only forward in this article, i.e. Thirty-three. The law. This article deals with services to applicants on international protection. There is a legal possibility because the definition of international protection is being changed so that once you have reached a final decision in your case, it no longer seems to be the candidate for international protection. Yet this is a law under that end, so it needs a rest. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is about to clean up. Can't it stand there if someone is to understand something in this law, if they're ever going to be accepted. But because of him. A senator always talks about someone who is sent back here is talking about those who are not sent back, but only individuals who have been here with an international protection application, possibly directly from Third Reich, not from Dublin, but who have just received a final revelation, and who are a person who is seriously ill but who can possibly take care of his daily life, take care of himself, as mentioned in the report. Then, in the light of history, when a pregnant woman in her pregnancy is dropped on an airplane and put on a plane for 19 hours, who is worth who is seriously ill and who is not seriously ill, who is in order to care for her needs and care for herself? What does this involve?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u193	A respectable president. As I read the law, it is by no means possible who should evaluate this, who should evaluate how these conditions are met or whether these conditions are met, so it is easier to assume that it is the person's right to serve or not. If there is no special explanation, then it can be concluded that it is those who exercise that authority for life and rights. I say, that's too bad because it's been repeated that they don't care. They're willing to throw people out on the street if they are able to force them into a medical examination and throw them out of the country. It's just the facts. That's how it's been. Sadly, it is not in good hands who should appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u194	A respectable president. A personal reading is a good and beautiful English word, often used in conjunction with children, and it is a good way to learn to read, what is best for them. Of course, this applies to adults too, but the word means, of course, that it is a reading that is enjoyable and does not relate to some obligation, such as school or work. The contrast, then, with a pleasant reading - that is, an obligatory reading. That's what I've been lying over. Of course, it is my duty to study the available bill and the previous bill that is natural many and long, and to study the story even further again, as has been traced very well, about the current laws, their origin, the difference of how they are put up, and how this bill is worked, this repeated bill, so I may not have a lot to add to it all. But I'd like to come in with a friend that I feel that this is something of a lack of direction and anger. Now, in the government contract, the President's permission states: In line with the United Nations refugee Convention in Iceland, applicants are to be welcomed for international protection at risk and have the right to be sheltered. In the natural world, the dog is buried because, on such occasions, it can be defined correctly, no matter what the individual seems to like. As defined, people entitled to that shelter are being welcomed, but there is no position to consider the rightness of space and the criteria to be used. But there is a natural answer to this bill, and there is no doubt about it either by reading the bill or by many comments that highlight what is being done with the bill. And a word at the highest. The Minister of Justice itself simply explains this well; that the meaning of the bill is primarily to narrow the right to receive physical treatment. It's based on some bizarre obsession that seems at the beginning when this bill was written - because it's actually always the same bill, though it takes a little change and in some respects worse and in some respects better as the version of the wind comes forward, while the obsession is meant that someone has been protected in another state should automatically invalidate the right of people to be treated here. It's been said repeatedly, just very simple. This is sanctified because the system is often referred to in a disparaging sense; the system is just something that works for itself and moves forward. The system in itself is a neutral concept, but in this negative sense it is referring to a slightly narrow view of the system or perhaps to the reserved fragrance of the one to be controlled. What I think in this case is that the National Institutes of Iceland and those who have this to do and are responsible for reviewing envelopes, which are often very difficult and must address - I don't see that this bill takes into account any other interest than their system interests what the Foreign Institute feels is the simplest and most convenient thing to do with it. And, of course, it's in her best interests to try, as this is called, to make the system more efficient by being able to easily throw out larger tablets of headlines. But of course -- well, I'm sure it's a very irreverent and inhumane position that you can only say that if you have been protected elsewhere, you're just fair. It doesn't matter by personal circumstances, how people have settled down here, what situations are in the realm where people have been protected, and they are only wiped out. It's the biggest smell of this bill. It is natural to eliminate the rights of people in the ministry after they receive a demonstration and more. There's something wrong with the same well, to improve efficiency. This, in turn, may go to some other smell of the system in a different direction. I think so, for example. to be excellent suggestions for separating applications and rights from the ministry, moving the ministry to the Social Ministry, because it is in many ways unfortunate for these rights and then the services of the same party. But it doesn't really communicate, so it's a natural call for who is now the highest attitude. Social and economic minister to these matters because it's as if we're looking at different compartments and it's very vague as to what the government is all about. This is how it's looking at me a little bit. And, as this has been attributed, we now get a huge number of candidates for protection from Ukraine, which basically overthrows all the reasons and makes this tiny smell of the system, which is trying to make more efficient by not accepting people who have been protected elsewhere, somehow helpful. All of this should provide a natural basis for considering the matter, as was the case when existing laws were passed, in a somewhat larger context: that the government will provide the collective responsibility that each minister of the government together has has and will abandon these small system settings that seem to be based on narrow interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I only think about what he was talking about in this way in the United States to decide that those who have received the alleged protection in another European country, a member of this so - called Dublin community, will automatically have no service here on land or shelter. That's exactly what I was trying to do. paritaprevir The left movement, the green bid, the Árnadóttir Þóra Auratir, in understanding, i.e. that as soon as governments who take this class are given so broad the power to evaluate the situation, it appears that it is always the first answer to lock up, closing until all available indications have been extended. And even then it's not open. It is always the first time you look at it. You wonder, " When it's obvious that people are coming from a state where there are very poor social conditions, where people are in a more sensitive position, etc., with children or family members who need some help, how. ' A senator would like it if we did at least An attempt for some time not always to have the front - line interface but to think: Could we enrich our community by examining the status of individuals who have sought protection in other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u196	A respectable president. Yeah, that's pretty much what I was talking about in my speech, that it was, I think, for improvement. Based on the figures I've taken on the size of applications from countries where people already have protection, from the rest of them, they can't be a burden that this is not something that can be tested at all. It is natural to calculate - we have the ratio of approved applications, of those who receive chemical treatment. We may be able to assume that a similar percentage or possibly lower will be accepted by those who have already been protected, can only be calculated as this would increase, it varies from year to year what we see to the fact that the approved applications would increase by, this is, at most, 50%. Then I'm naturally considering, for example. A year earlier, in Ukraine, a significant increase is now expected in these areas. Because of what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned children specifically, so I naturally forgot that there's no respect for children, if there's children in the picture. It's, for example. what an organization like the Children's Life and UNICEF have been pointing to. When people have been uprooted, when they have taken their children along, and perhaps they have settled down in some way, should it not be of little importance to consider them? Is that not the least to consider?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have two speculations, but I would like to follow this: Is it not minimal that we view a child as always in a more delicate position? I'd say, "Yes." I would say that it is absolutely minimal to think of a child fleeing with his parents, a child without shelter, having no security from day to day being naturally in an extremely delicate position. It is totally inhumanity for a child not to know where he is and to have no safety. It is perfectly unacceptable, so it is in its nature always in a delicate position. Especially should this child be considered, not to dismiss it to situations that are completely unacceptable, in overcrowded camps, because there is some definition of safety there. Being in a refugee camp is never safe for a child. And let us not forget that the vast majority of refugees are in the neighboring countries of which wars, natural disasters, or things like them are happening. The vast majority of refugees from Syria fled to Jordan or to other countries. It's also true that people with children come all the way back to Iceland with a lot of money. You don't put any pressure on your children to go all that way. So one might wonder, " Should I not simply set specific laws on foreigners who have much more guarantees for children? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u198	A respectable president. That's right, children are always in a more delicate position. This is the only place I want to take this opportunity to say it is the highest. To commend this is a point taken, a minister of justice changed from the time the bill took a consultation and until it came here. It was noted regarding the obligation to deprive people of their ministry after their rejection that they could do a great deal of harm to children. There are special regulations in the bill to at least where children are provided for shelter. This, of course, is in harmony with international commitments, the children's covenants, and so forth. As to this deportation, there should be a change in the bill, where comments and children are provided for shelter, a general rule that humans must be able to unite in as little as possible, or as it seems to me at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u199	A respectable president. I think it may be said that the alienities and the status of refugees are increasingly macropolitical in the nations, people running for protection, and I think that in Europe we are aware of that, especially now in the circumstances in Ukraine, what the history of these people may be. We are aware that tens of millions of people are fleeing the world today, and the picture is and becomes clearer in people's minds than often before in times of distress, such as I mention, in conditions that exist today. Yet, it is always the stories of people who are moving with us and the stories of individuals who can find in the media that are most relevant to us, rather than these big numbers, although they in themselves are frightening and tragic. We also know this from Iceland, of news flows throughout history, of people's tragic stories, adults and children, people who have come to Iceland and then we've heard of the decision made by the National Institute of Iceland to anger her. In that move, we would like to forget that our responsibility is government. Organizations enforce government laws and policies. Of course, there is room for food to decide, and I'm not going to completely separate the Foreign Institute, but I have at times felt that it had a lack of memory in the eyes of government policy. I said it in answer to the highest. Prior to this evening, Minister of Justice, this bill is now presented in a slightly altered picture for the fourth time and has not been fulfilled. The core messages in the report when the bill was last reported were about simpler language treatment and efficiency. When the report was read as it was last read, this message on a simpler case treatment, this message about a more efficient treatment for the people who had received international protection elsewhere before they came here, there was something that was actually being said. This report does not make me feel just as clear about the underlying goals. But when you start looking at the articles, it seems to me at least at first tour, that here, in effect, is the same political bitch. I wondered, " Is there a further career in stories like one I'd like to say here, and I've said in this sermon before, by a Syrian woman who worked at Vin Park School? ' She was referred to Greece because she had received international protection before coming to this land. The Icelandic authorities thus refused to take this woman's case for material treatment, in which Greece was said to be a secure state. I remember reading this woman's story at the hospital first. It showed that the woman worked at Vina Park School and had worked there for over six months, according to Sighvatsdóttir Sighötsdóttdóttir, who said she had reached out to the children. I'm going to quote this story, by permission of the president, on what the vice principal said about this woman: ▪ She has an overwhelming presence, is enthusiastic, and worked hard to get to know the work. It was good to work with her, and I learned a lot from her. She taught her children and learned from us as well as from them. So everybody made money with her work here. She's very much missed. As I mentioned before, I have even twice told this story here. I confess that she sits only in my heart because my daughter was once in that nursery, not at the time, but that led me to read this story with other glasses. When you think about this story based on a situation in Iceland, not just from her situation, you can ask yourself: Was the reason why the law would need to reduce the number of employees in NYU? There are, of course, many preschoolers, not just in Reykjavík, but in many parts of the country. Was it because the woman could not consider working in this nursery? She wanted to continue working with her children. Was it because it was not a good worker? She was valued by staff, valued by children, and appreciated by their parents. The children, and this was shown in the story, and then they all greeted her by hugging her, without knowing that she also said goodbye to Iceland. What was it then that she did wrong? It may have been only that she had experienced war in her homeland, Syria, and since then she had come, not as far away as Iceland, but as soon as possible to Greece. The news was telling the tragic story of this woman, anonymous in the media, and her circumstances, and, as I say, a woman I don't know, who only hooked up with the name of the nursery. The Icelandic story that the children of Sturdy Park will hear in time is tragic but tragic in ways other than the history of this woman because this is the story of what circumstances sometimes exist in Iceland when people are in need. So I ask again, as I did when the last foreign bill of the government came out: Could it be that this bill is proclaiming dismissing people from a country that has already received international protection elsewhere, no matter what the state is? Is that possible? Could be that we will continue to guide people, e.g. To Greece despite knowing the circumstances there? We know that, I'm gonna let me reiterate it. We know the situation that awaits the people in Greece. President. I mentioned at first that the red thread in the report we saw with the bill as it was presented here was that the result would be clearer treatment and transparency. I thought then that it was the politics behind the report too, clear and transparent, but it wasn't in the spirit I wanted to see in these materials. The article that follows this version of the bill is different. She's not as clear about the goals, that I think, she doesn't talk so much about the Dublin Protocol, but I can't better see that the suggestions, at least In this regard, regarding the welcome of people who have been protected in another country, no matter where they are, these will be, i.e. that such a matter should not be taken for the treatment of the material. The report says about this point, i.e. By permission of the President, what is the order: Therefore, this guide indicates that there will be a loss of applications of these individuals based on the exception of 2 mg. 36 st. foreign-like...◯ It must mean that the applications of people who have already received international protection elsewhere will not be checked, no matter where they are. I think it's the big thing, whether or not there's something to look at behind this title and label of international protection. The report also discusses the need for the protection system to be in place and built up in such a way that those who are truly entitled to international protection will receive their quick and humane care and it is necessary to ensure that there is a minimum abuse of the system. I agree that the security system has to be in place and built up so that it can put your arms around those who really need it. But my concern in this bill is where the line is drawn in that topic. There I may feel that the question is, Am I going to be part of the solution or are we going to be part of the refugee problem by the way we choose? Priorities are proper, and priorities are necessary and priorities are to be set in behalf of refugees. It is the people who are in the greatest need and by exposing themselves to that group, we become part of the solution instead of being a part of the problem. But as I say, I always stop at this point on whether we're going to win these issues just like a robot or if there's anything really behind our work song other than efficiency. There's still a new bill here at the Council, and this time from the highest. The minister of justice, Jón Gunnarsson's son, concerning foreign affairs. This includes the change in alien law and is only changed from the roots listed here to treat, the report describes it. I admit, I don't fully understand all these changes. I have not given any time to review the bill or comment on some unique articles. It seems to me, though, that this point remains unchanged. The argument has been that people who have already been protected in another country are not among those who are really in need for protection in this country. I remember when we were discussing these matters here last time, we had a fine, clear, well - written review from the Red Cross that pointed to the fact that it was not uncommon for the people who had received international protection to have received it in the northern European states, it was an unusual picture. It showed that the largest group came from Greece, coming from Italy, came from Hungary, where refugees find the circumstances unacceptable. But I worry about it, and I pause to think that effective and simple language treatments can push other goals that are as important as those of more important importance to me. It must be equal, it is impossible to achieve an efficient and effective period of handling in these matters, as is true of other systems at the highest level. The minister of justice goes before him, but it has the legal authority to do so. It's important, indeed, to shorten my treatment period, and I now think I'm one of the senators who have mentioned it in these halls in the past few years, but in the context of the legal system. But it can't be like that, and it's not like that, it's not that when we read the news and hear a talk in society, it's the efficiency that has most disturbed the public when people have been dismissed. The shorter treatment period is not the only response. A shorter treatment period is not a big truth if otherwise the result is bad. This is not a view or goal that can dissuade everyone else. I believe that there must be an understanding and clear rule, and there should be an assessment of the circumstances of people who are looking for protection here, and priorities for those who really need it. That's what it's all about. The protective system serves the purpose that we all know who is. It is a project, and it is not necessarily simple and the highest. Minister of justice is not to be envied by drawing the line in such matters. We want to receive people, and we want to do them well. But if the goal is to lighten the system, which, in effect, is to deal with people who are coming here because they're on the run, one way could be to create other ways for people to come here to the country, to make it easier for them to close the system, perhaps to reduce the number of applicants that are some who come to this country simply because they're getting a better life, that it will be easier for people outside Europe to come down here and get a job. We see that they are taking steps now on the part of the government, and that is well, I rejoice, but there are other steps and larger here. It says that it is necessary for the alien law to be imposed on the development and challenges of the preservation system today, and I hope to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice will begin this work and this discussion now with an open mind, remembering that the speed and simplicity will not be at the expense of what we want Iceland to represent in the international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u200	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I stopped for a while. In her talk, a senator raised a question about whether we would be ready to send people to any country. I just wanted to talk to you about some of that bill that hasn't been given much attention either. There's a change being made. There's a point where I believe that there's a possibility that people can be sent almost anywhere. Here I refer to a review of the Red Cross in Iceland regarding this bill, pp. 8, which will appear by permission of the President: Until last year, the application has been made by principle 1.mg. 36 st. The application for international protection for material management is limited to cases where the Member State is one of the Schengen countries or Member States in the Dublin Community. So they say: A case which is under the Schengen State Protocol has fallen under the C- force, i.e. People who have been protected in the Schengen countries can be reimbursed. Thus, it has been determined where we are ready to send out people who have already been protected. But that was until last year. Now the review goes on, with the permission of the President. ▪ Following a number of subjects with state interests in Venezuela who also have different contacts with other countries, especially other South American countries, the National Institutes of Iceland began to deny candidates in such matters of chemical management with reference to a-part 1. 36 st. [message-shaped]. The reports of the Red Cross to the Foreign Institute and Foreign Affairs have strongly objected to this procedure. Taking into account the blurred and controversial nature of the current course of 1 mg. 36 st. [Sential law] is, and since then it has not been customary to use a subsidiary law in the absence of Schengen State, officials of the Red Cross have been shocked [because of] how willing governments have been to apply the directive in the above cases. So, what we have to do right now is legalize these efforts by the National Institute of Iceland to send people to other countries in South America, although there are no welcome agreements there. There is no system around repeating people. The report does not even require that the reception be a member of the United Nations refugee Convention. [[The president calls.]] So I wonder why. A senator can even think of the limitations of this government, where they are ready to make refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u201	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I say, I remember so well, because I sat in a full-scale educational committee when the bill was last being treated, how much powder went on covering this point. There was also a very good review from the Red Cross, where you could see that it was composed of knowledge and understanding about the nature and circumstances of these people but also a comprehensive knowledge of the laws, how to apply them and how they have been used and how they have not been applied. There may be certain blindness in a lawsuit. I thought I marked it in the discussion earlier tonight with the directors when he looked at the way a rule sounds when the rule is, in effect, a dead letter, when it is never applied. Of course, you need to be able to read the Law in context with the experience of those who know the work. If this is the way it is, which, of course, I don't question, like a whale. A senator is describing them as a concern to me, too, because I think it must be of first importance to evaluate the history of the people coming here and whether they have a purpose in this study as a protection system, but at the same time, what we are willing to reach far into which people are going, if it is the absolute rule that there is no one who has been protected elsewhere. To be honest, I still have this point in my discussion. There were other findings, including those, that have actually occurred. in the speech of a man. A senator, but no less so, for example. in the speech of a man. Ardísís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir, where you realize there's something underneath. But it just feels like such a princely stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u202	A respectable president. In fact, I read it out of the direction of the Red Cross and out of the wording of the command to change that there is not even a requirement that the individual be protected in the relevant state to reject the material. He just needs to have some kind of connection with the state, that a relative lives there, or that he has a permit there or something like that. There is enough to deny the subject the treatment according to this bill. What I find remarkable about this law, along with several other requirements, is taking things that the Foreign Institute has been trying to perform, or has been doing, and legally established. In effect, they can continue to do something that they have not been authorized to do yet, but it seems that it did not matter. An example is that of pointing out 20 refugees on the street in February last year without having permission to do so. Now it's just to make sure that the authorities have a legal right to direct people on the street. So they're trying and trying to send people to countries who are not part of the Schengen community service. [[The president calls.]] Now it's only time for gold to be assured that it is possible to do so. This too is very common in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u203	A respectable president. One aspect of this work and this work done at the Foreign Institute. Of course, you wonder how much it is shaped in a void and how much it is shaped in the context of government policy. There I come back to what I mentioned earlier, that I have at times felt that the discussion is so that a Foreign Institute is acting alone on the development of foreign affairs here. Of course, she is active there, but she has a place in the regularity that she has been created. I just hope that in the treatment of the case on the General Board following this discussion, the management members will be able to see what other objective the bill is and who it should be. It shows that it is important that the management board responds to the development of the group of lawsuits at any given time so that the protective system is able to deal with the humane way of handling the many stories that come here. For example, when you're talking about how the group's developing at any given time, you can. Think about the circumstances in Europe now, what voice we want to be, what we want to play, and so on. I think it's important that we discuss this bill from the big movie and from the role of Iceland in that subject. I'm going to reiterate the word that I like to the highest. The minister of justice sits here for the entire discussion, but to take the points presented here in the discussion, listen, and try to meet the criticism presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u204	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I cut it by then. A senator told me that I thought the nail was right on my head, which was the question: Do we want to be part of the solution, or do we want to be part of the problem? You see, this bill makes us part of the problem. V.E.G. The minister of justice stressed in his case earlier that we were here adapting our legislation to what is customary in Europe, and to some extent we have the highest. While other European countries are applying regulations in these matters that we do not, a minister is correct, making this law necessary in this country, i.e. The rules are the way they are. The other is that what is being changed by these changes is not the problem. There is no problem solved with these changes. It's getting worse. They're getting the system mixed up. Many of these laws are bad words, they are vaguely pronounced, and they are designed to reduce efficiency and indeed impair escape rights, although they will simply call for further lawsuits and retrace in this system while the problem that needs to be solved is not to be respected as a fugitive's rights. They're looking at this from the wrong angle, the point of view described here repeatedly, that some applicants are just here and something. This is what's the problem with this system. We could be a part of the solution by accepting it and becoming aware of it, rather working on the change of mind in this system, first of all. [[The president calls.]] I agree, for example, that certain laws are likely to have to be explained in order to adjust the task that has, unfortunately, become very bad. [[The president calls.]] But this is not the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u205	I think it's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator shows that it feels that the law being proposed in this bill is unclear. Of course, allowing ourselves to be sick - looking lawyers in a conversation can create problems that involve not just interpretation but exactly the cost. So there should always be personal goals, not just boring lawyers, to have the lyrics clear. In terms of the efficiency and cost, which I would like to find, I was also thinking about it when we did not read it so long ago, that the Red Cross should not continue to be negotiated with them. Now I have to admit that I don't exactly remember what that case is right now, but it made it so obvious that the change would always be in order to extend the treatment when the U.S. National Institute was in position to have to have a relationship with a lawyer at any time, someone in a town that was busy or flinched or not. What would happen to the hundreds of cases involved in this transition? Take, for example, the emergency room, where there is knowledge of it and even a list of lawyers who are accustomed to taking on a particular matter. There is a set memory that makes efficiency effective, reducing costs, and improving services. I think that many of the things that can contribute exactly to efficiency and lower costs are simply to respect the principle and to allow the professionals with experience, knowledge, to have these institutions - not to disassociate them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u206	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and again finds herself on the head. I can tell you what. A senator's status at the National Institute for Speech Services is that, in fact, any lawyer can be assigned to a set list of U.S. National Institutes. What may be, I don't know if I'm supposed to say funny, because it's more sad than smiley, but the agency found that perhaps it's best to have some kind of quality surveillance on the spokesmen who go into this, some sort of guarantee that people had experience in the litigation group and other things. A foreign agency quickly misunderstood this and set up quality control, which does not require that people have experience in the litigation and function well with their clients. Rather, it is a comfort to the Foreign Institute of Iceland and have been given guidelines that I encourage all to learn, on the U.S. O.A.'s website, on quality surveillance of spokesmen in this service, which is primarily about the cooperation and comfort of a foreign agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I was talking about back here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u207	Thank you. A senator for reviewing with me the situation in this case today in terms of speech service. I have also understood the Red Cross, so the service there involves more than just the striped services of the lawyer. They know why. A senator, too. There's a lot about how willing lawyers are and how smooth, how capable they are in human relations to deal with just the face and many aspects of legalism. That is true of all lawsuits. A lawyer can be good at divorce because he is good at talking to people while someone else is in real estate faults or what they are now. I thought it would be very critical to hear that this experience and knowledge should be detracted in the name of efficiency, when I think it is set in motion that it will lead to worse service and longer treatment periods. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u208	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríníddóttir for a verbal and objective approach. I just want to say about this with an investigation and an opinion of each individual application that it is very clear to me, in this bill, that in cases where candidates have already received international protection in another state, they are always looking at whether the applicant is fully protected. The value of basic human rights should be determined according to international commitment, such as the refugee agreement, and the use of practical protection. Each case is examined on an individual basis. It is fine to remind you, because there has been a little discussion about the Dublin Community work, that its objective is to ensure that one member of the Member State is responsible for the management of an application for international protection to provide the applicant's quick access to a lawsuit, taking into account whether or not he/she has a right to international protection. This agreement goes on, and it's good to mention it here in the context of the fact that there's now very little need for people to be dismissed on the basis of the Order of Dublin. It is a matter of exception, but it was very common here some years ago. The distinction between refugees and people in search of a better life must be made. It's an emergency system - we need to expand this discussion to a living permit or work permit. That's different. But I can agree with that with what. A senator, and there's probably that, and there's a lot of interest and simply in the policy of the Independence Party, to expand the rights of those coming here, to move here, and to be in search of a better life and perhaps already to go to the job market. In fact, we feel that it is very important for the job market to get such parties to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u209	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the counter, and I am happy to hear that this is his approach and point of view regarding the fact that tests and food are being conducted. I'd like to ask him if he really thinks it is today, that it is so in the praxis, that it is part of the general procedure, and if he thinks there is any change in these materials by means of the bill he's offering here. I'm going to say, "I'm a sister of the highest opinion." Minister of Justice because I think this is, in effect, the finest tool to relieve the weight of the system. In fact, we've been talking about it at Reunion of this Assembly Hall, and I think I've chosen to represent the Minister of Justice, who was in that office before, with whether she only knew someone who could accomplish this. But I'm absolutely certain that if the government would bring more prime signals this way, because they're a very good commercial market, they'd get the best hits here in a Congressroom. But I have these two questions for the Minister, i.e. whether he thinks that there will be no change in this food with the bill he is now providing in terms of the evaluation of people who already have international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u210	A respectable president. I don't think there's any fundamental change in the fact that each case is being reviewed and that there is an active protection in the relevant state. Here the discussion suggested that people were being sent out to the galley, that they were being put in a life - threatening situation, and from a worse situation altogether. Of course not. A respectable president. Of course, we are primarily trying to deal with those who need real protection according to that emergency system. The reservation is an emergency system in which we will provide protection for those who are actually on the run. I think it's really important. I'd like to thank you for a little bit. The senator for the indication that he brought here concerning the Foreign Institute of Foreign Affairs, that the senators should not direct their criticism to the Foreign Institute, to direct it to the minister. The foreign agency and the staff there are his sources and the Ministry. Then I just want to put it into place that the speech system is doing really well with the changes, according to the information I have. I'm not worried that it will delay the trial.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u211	A respectable president. First, I'm going to say that I don't think that the Foreign Institute is completely excluded from all criticism or publicity. I meant that at times I have felt that the political responsibility is missing. With regard to the speech system, it must have been a concern that the preparatory period for these changes was little or no, so there is a considerable number of cases that are uncertain because the Red Cross stood in the belief, as presented in the media, some weeks before it was expected that the contract should not be extended, that there would be an extension of it, or at least An invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u212	...four months.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u213	- Yeah, four months. But we now know the details of the treatment period, not enough to cover all the current issues that are going on in there in four months. But I find it interesting to hear that. Ministers believe that there is not a fundamental change in the points under consideration, i.e. The circumstances of the people who are brought up with international protection - I want the minister to use the phrase'salvation' to protect them. As a result, it will be interesting to follow up on comments about the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u214	President. The bill says, with President's permission: A foreigner who has received the final rejection of his application for international protection continues to have the rights in this article until it has left the country, but to a maximum of 30 days, since the decision became final at the administrative level. At the end of that period, the rights fall down. However, it is not permitted to cancel the rights of children, parents, or overseers, as well as of other relatives of children, pregnant women, serious sick people, and disabled persons with long - term needs. However, in the case of a candidate as a citizen of the EEA or EFTA state or from a state in the list of national security agencies, and the application has been clearly unfounded, the rights fall down when the Foreign Institute has refused his application for international protection. What's being said here is that after 30 days, when people finally have a solution, that is what? There's no medical services, no forwards, no housing, nothing. What are they doing? There's been an increase in people's distress. That's what's being done. They're adding to the distress these people are in. People are taking away the small rights they have here. 30 days is an amazingly short period of time, and the fact that people are being deprived of basic rights is, in effect, an amazing move to do so. What do governments think will follow? I would like to quote this review of the Red Cross, which says that these individuals would be very vulnerable to abuse, man - made, and violence. The number of homeless people would increase and the intensity of distress would increase. Then there may be an increase in the likelihood of harmful behavior and crime. There will be pressures on the local social network and the police, which will be more following the changes being foretold. This is what I think is very likely to be compared to stories from other countries where people are not welcomed into the country, that there will be great distress and crime will increase and violence, people going to human halls, and so on. The result is not foreseeable, and quite, for me, the hatched, that it is not: What could happen, and what could be the worst, and what is the result, and how are we going to deal with them? Can we afford to increase the pressures on our community social systems? Is it, e.g. something we can afford or what can do? Don't you just feel the pressure the way it is? Or the pressure on police, the increase in crime, is it not something that we need to consider and analyze before making such decisions without having the evidence and evidence behind it, and all the possible consequences of changing things to worse? It may not be possible, but at least you need to examine and reason why this will not happen when, for example, it will not happen. The Red Cross says that their main concern is that we're raising distress, we're increasing violence, we're increasing police and crime in the country by agreeing with this. Of course, it is a little strange that small or large legal adjustments can do this, but what is the responsibility of the government to make sure that this is not what is going on in other parts of Europe? Government officials have a great responsibility to guarantee this and to argue that these are anxieties that have no real support, that there is something that could not happen at all. This is what needs to be discussed, and this is what needs to be answered. Why isn't this going to happen? How can we be sure? If this happens, what will we do? Can we respond if this happens? As the social system is today, I think the answer is no. But I don't know until I have the evidence behind me and it's been examined from every point of view. At any rate, it seems to me that by excommunicating people, they leave the country and receive services elsewhere. So service in Greece, Bulgaria, Hungary, or where? Okay. Why does the government not accept the responsibility that we have as part of an international community? Should we flout our responsibilities? Are we, as they have said tonight, going to be part of the problem, or are we going to be part of the solution? Nor is it to consider how good it is for the Icelanders to have people in different parts of the country, how much manpower it is for us to have different people who come from different societies and teach us things. The least we can do is give them reasonable and good treatment, whether they have received international protection in another country or not. It's the least we can do. There are many families that have, for example. Get media coverage to save your own skin and stay in the protection of Iceland. In some cases it has been successful, not all of them. For protection, some may fall into this great struggle with the United States. Not everyone gets the press. There are plenty of families that leave the country without anyone knowing it. So if you don't have a strong ally, if you can't do it yourself to get into the media or other things, you just don't have the same opportunities as other families. It moves people. Why does this move people? Well, because that's where we see the people. This is not just some number on a magazine that can be changed by a pen dash. They're people who come to Iceland, way out in the Atlantic. Why would people want to come here unless they had to? It's so crazy that we can't just receive people, show them the respect of taking them in and going over their case, and having reason behind us, why or why we wouldn't accept their application, we'd at least show them the respect to go through the matter and support it, just because we're human beings, because we're people. No more reason. How important it is to ensure that we are a population of refugees and put humanitarian activities ahead of those of refugees! There is a reason why families and individuals who are denied international protection are often hard to fight. It's just because we realize that we're talking about people. We want to give people fair and good treatment when they are applying to come to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u215	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Earlier this evening, we called several members of the council after the Supreme Court. A social and workforce minister would come and be present for the discussion as certain basic changes are being made at 33. g. law on foreigners, points under the sector of social and employment minister rather than the Minister of Justice. However, it has been claimed here today that this is not so today, that 33. g., about the rights of the candidates for international protection - the changes proposed in the bill are only in fact, in effect, those who are no longer candidates for international protection because applications have been refused. Maybe I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if she feels that this argument is convincing to her about this particular article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u216	President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. No, I don't find that convincing. I just think it's very important that the individuals and ministers who have something to do with this category and are responsible for it in one way or another should be here and attend the conference with a body of Congress when such an important matter is being discussed. It is only very clear that although these are many ministers involved in one way or another, it is important that, when making major decisions in such matters, this overlaps as much as it really does, because there are other laws that also fall under other ministers, that he is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u217	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. One thing that particularly bothers me with this presentation is the highest. Minister, and it will be interesting to find the answer if he intends to zoom up the discussion afterwards, in fact, 8 mg. Thirty-three. says the word: ▪ Once the Foreign Institute has rejected the EEA citizen's or EFTA application for international protection, he is not entitled to the services of this article. So if we look at the law on this, it's said there's a special rule about the EEA and EFTA citizens who apply for international protection that they don't have the right to be in the service according to this 33. g., which, of course, tells us that this article has been generally considered so that it applies both before and after the application is withheld and that it has been interpreted according to what I know in the process. That's why it is so stupid to let this article stop referring to people in current laws as soon as they have received a revelation. It certainly is that way according to the change as the highest. A minister is moved to contribute in this bill. In this regard it is being measured in Article 1. The law says that there will be a clear distinction between foreigners and candidates for international protection. Of course, the reason why there is a reason to measure it in this bill is because the laws have not been interpreted so far. That's why I reiterate my appeal to the highest power. Social and workforce minister to come here and participate in the discussion on issues that fall under his own topic area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u218	President. It's also about service - and I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The service is so important. I think it's underestimated how important it is. In order to find the answer to the effect that having a service in distress can have on people, it is important to have the highest priority. Social and workforce minister here because it's his party, and there's the service and everything related to it. It is important to have the view of the table, to discuss the ministry, and what happens if a service is impaired or taken away from people in distress for 30 days, where they have been denied, and then only to find out what happens to them, and what happens when people are in need? That's what makes the most amazing things. Let us not forget that if people are in trouble and experience real danger in another country, they do amazing things, that's just the way they are. If we talk about unsupervised children and others - people in need, they are likely to be there. If people experience that their life is threatened in one way or another, people do things that they would not have done if a guard were to give them their rights and services, taking into account that they are human beings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u219	A respectable president. There's been some reports here tonight that need further attention. I've done wrong by myself, and I want to correct it. This is not to say that people who have been protected in other countries are entitled to live in a refugee camp. When people are reimbursed or protected in state and then escape because they live in the streets - they have no right to find shelter, if anything can be called in refugee camps. It is only those who are waiting for the results of their applications in the state that may remain in overcrowded refugee camps. Others are ordered to leave. And what does that mean? It is this very street that we are always talking about in these so - called secure states. I think it would be helpful for governments and officials to think about this for a moment, that when we act as if people are being protected and thus saved, with their children fleeing from war persecution or brutal treatment or political persecution, famine, natural disasters, or very limited, when people run away with their children from such situations, and are protected in the first European world because they have no choice but to provide protection because the plight is clearly so severe, there is no protection in some countries because there is sometimes a very difficult job. It is difficult to make a living apart from illegal jobs, becoming a slave to those who make use of such conditions, and no shelter for their children, no education, and no housing. So the so - called protection we are talking about from certain states, Greece, in some places in Greece, Malta, Hungary, Bulgaria. When we're talking about taking a look at the cases of those who have not really been protected, we need to consider what the government's words here on real protection. Is there real protection in these kingdoms? Bulgaria, Hungary, Greece, Malta, Portugal? I've heard some terrible stories from people who are coming from living on the street. We need to understand this situation. And because we've talked a lot about it here tonight, whether it's necessary to go to the top. Social and workforcer talking here and listening to what's going on -- because there's a short period of time left in this speech period, I thought I had more time -- it's necessary to make adjustments in various legalities, just because of changes and divisions in the service being performed, including dose should be administered at the highest level. Social and employment secretary. I think it would have been good for him, representing the left movement, even the green bids, to be here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for continued discussions on this unfortunate matter. I'd like to pick up the thread where it could be. A senator released him, i.e. With regard to the difference between the state of refugees in Greece, which is waiting for an answer to their application and the answer to their application, we are talking about a positive response. It is so ironic that since 2011 Iceland has not been sending people back to Greece on the basis of the Order of Dublin. Now everyone gets really confused because people associate the Dublin Protocol with all these re-importations to Europe. The point, however, is that the Dublin Protocol applies only until the person has received an answer to his application. Once the answer has been answered, the Dublin Protocol no longer applies; people are simply referred from here and back to Greece because they have a permit to live there. There's no deal, there's no deal. It's just, you have a green slip over there, we're gonna move you there. Greece cannot be denied because you have a visa. The irony of this is that the reason we are not sending people to Greece on the basis of the Dublin principle, which says that people who have applied for protection or who have not applied for protection, or who feel that they are refugees but have not yet received an answer, is that circumstances in Greece are viewed as unacceptable. But it is the people who have the right to stay in a refugee camp in Greece, certainly under tragic circumstances, but they have the right to help from a particular international relief organization and other factors, receive a pack of food, and so on. Once you have received the answer to your application, received protection, so please, here you have a permit in Greece, all this service will fall down, all these rights will fall down. [[The president calls.]] It is this way today, and there are many public reports and reliables, that the position of protected people in Greece is worse than the position of people waiting for an answer than those people do not send to Greece.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're absolutely right. We decide that the situation in a refugee camp is unacceptable, so we do not send it back. Of course, it would be great if the government in Greece had some kind of help with people who have been protected, but that is not how the government knows. Then we should be looking at other laws about foreigners that are forbidden to be delivered. I must say that on my legal practice, I also based on the specific laws that the Icelandic government forbids to reimburse someone in such inappropriate and dangerous situations in which life and health are put at risk. This is naturally so overexhaustible, and that may be exactly what was so unpleasant to a talk at any time. paritaprevir This is Steinunn Þóra Arjörn's Árnadóttir here today, where she said we'd just have to trust that it's gonna be all right. Government assessments of what is considered an unacceptable situation for children, going on the street, that it is okay - when the law says that sending people out in such situations is actually forbidden, how can that be true?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u222	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the conversation. I agree that there were some things in the talks that have been brought here today that suggested something and raised a measure of anxiety. It also has a specific wording, which is only very dangerous, concerning our system being designed solely to help those in real need. First, it's not that there are so many people who are not in real distress. All these people are in real distress. Whether people fear for their lives or are looking for a better life is not black and white. People are not necessarily looking for a better life. First, I just want to say that I don't have a problem with people looking for a better life; I don't talk about when their life is completely unacceptable. But one thing is to look for a better life, and there is another to look for life. Not being able to provide security for their children, and unable to see to do so indefinitely - as one fugitive put it: I was not born a fugitive, I just had to leave. I'm not born a fugitive, they're not situations I've been born into, and I think I'm supposed to accept, but I just had to go. This is the biggest problem, this is the biggest mistake Europe has ever made in refugee affairs, i.e. locked up in certain states. This system has been criticized repeatedly. This is a fundamental problem with Europe's built - up system. That's where we come back to our highest level. Minister of Justice has spoken of, i.e. that we need to adapt our legislation to what is going on in Europe. And we come to that too. Gunnlaugsdóttir Þorbjörg are going to be part of the solution, or are we going to be part of the problem? This is the problem. This is not the solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u223	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. That is exactly this: Do we want to be part of the solution? I'm going again to quote what I'm saying. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, a senator with left greens, who asked me: Does the United States just want to open the border? So you just want to let everybody in and protect everybody? Of course it's not like that. It's weird to hear that sentence coming from this study. I would have believed a member of the Central Party to ask this question because they have a completely different policy than ours. It is only natural for such a question to come from there. It is strange that such a question comes from a political party member, who, in turn, makes it appear to be a socialistic group that is guided by humanity and human rights. It has never been said that the land is wide open for everyone. It's not like that, and it doesn't even think about anyone. But we want to do our part and be part of the solution. It's much more expensive, if you get back into the money, there are so many people who don't understand humanity, and then I have to talk about it out of money, doing things so crazyly bad, a lot more expensive for a government fund to do so badly. This means a lot more costs for the whole system, and it's not wise.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u224	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up a scene on the bill that I also spoke to. paritaprevir The village of Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Guindar earlier, turns to extend the wide range of countries to which people can be reassigned. To date, resurgence has been confined to countries that are part of the Dublin Union, as part of Schengen. As indicated by the reference to the Red Cross, this changed a year ago. When the number of applications from Venezuela began to increase considerably, a foreign agency was expected to have an adventureful interpretation of one case 36. g., I don't have this in front of me, that it's possible to reimburse the person to a country he has some meaningful connection to. The link may be of no greater significance than it might have to be that of a relative who has a residence permit in the country. There is no need to suggest that the individual can be protected in any clear and decisive way. In fact, a report with the bill shows that it is not even a condition for that country to be a member of the United Nations refugee Convention. In this bill, it is said to recommend what the Foreign Institute has been trying to do, which is to refuse to address the subject of refugees who have had access or some kind of connection to a state outside Schengen and outside the Dublin Convention, which is, of course, a vast change of direction and inexorable because there are no re-entries with other countries. There is no welcome agreement or anything that enables governments to make sure that the individual will receive some kind of protection there. [[The president calls.]] This transition has gone a little low, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u225	A respectable president. I thought it went out. Somehow I thought we had seen this change. We discussed this here when the second or third time, I can't quite remember when it came in. I can't wait to hear it from what happened. A senator where it is, I remembered it had gone out. We were discussing it here then -- b-joints 7. [[B-aide 7.]] The applicant has such a connection with another state, etc., yes. Here we have yet another legal problem, for another government cannot be demanded to receive someone who does not have the right to reside in that state. Only if a person is allowed to go in there can he be reassigned to the Kingdom. The Icelandic government has no authority because they cannot make such a requirement for receiving an individual. We talked about this last time. I remember talking about this very thing. We talked about how to enforce this, but somehow this goes back into the council. There is no requirement for another kingdom to accept only one person, there must be some agreement between him and him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u226	A respectable president. This is certainly an unacceptable law, but it is possible to put it in an even worse context, which is the only requirement to deprive these candidates of services, host and support is that they have received the final decision in a administrative level. I wonder, from the bottom to the bottom, if it can be repeated or not, whether that's enough, i.e. the subject has been denied, and as a result, he has at least no service, although he may not be able to send anything. I'm just wondering because, based on the law as it is available, I think it's quite possible. I'd like to make another move on this later. There is another reason why I feel that I have not received enough attention, and there is a warrant to provide authorities with the medical records and medical information of all foreigners in Iceland, that is, what they are doing without a court order. This is the change in 17,◯19. par. The law, I think it's in 5. the current bill, which is being given permission to provide health information on all foreigners in Iceland to ensure that they are not illegal or to facilitate their migration. Now I have a foreign husband, this will apply to him, it may affect me personally, perhaps rather hard. But completely away from it: Is that all right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u227	A respectable president. Is that all right? Of course, it's not okay for us to cancel all the human rights of people who come here for protection, of course not. Nothing's okay. But if people are using certain points, such as That there is no law among them, but I think that there is a certain burden of evidence on the person in it. The individual must prove it, but this is not to be so that governments can call for all available information. We've seen all kinds of rudeness going on. It was a disaster what happened to this pregnant woman we've been talking about here tonight, 36 weeks past. Her life was put at risk, and she was taken 19 hours in the last days of her pregnancy. That's a hell of a treatment, of course. According to a surgeon, laws were violated, that was, the result. And what happened? If we were in other parts of the North, the Minister would have stepped in to give me the impression, that's just the way it is. In Iceland, however, only a variety of such behaviors are allowed toward people in a more delicate position. For dropping services, we know exactly what that means. You can't send someone away to a state who doesn't want to receive him, and if there's no deal, then the subject just ends up on a bench outside, and then somehow he starts trying to support himself, not by recruiting in some Iceland bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u228	A respectable president. Over the past few years, a case of foreigners has struck the fingers of a Foreign Institute for violating the rights of candidates for international protection. Of course, it is true that what was said in the case of the highest court. Early Minister of Justice tonight, rather than always being critical of the Foreignland Institute, as often done in the media, it is important to bear in mind that there is a minister who shapes the policy of foreigners. A foreign agency is represented by a minister. The minister has a management and surveillance obligation to the Agency and must respond when the situation takes place that the U.S. National Institute makes decisions that involve violations of human rights, often an irreversible violation of human rights, and no way of correcting the damage to the deportation process. I think what in this bill is an attempt to legalize some of the things the Foreign Institute has been willing to do on its legal agenda but not able to get away with. For the whole bill, because this has also been discussed with the factors of the left green, it seems to be using the human rights of candidates for international protection as a kind of change in the government business. Hv. A senator of the left green said earlier that there were things going on, and grinning a little when we were discussing this. What I would like to draw attention to, before discussing the case, is closely related to the subject. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has been talking about here tonight, i.e. b-aide 7. The bill. It involves a very drastic change in the foreign law, increasing the possibility of government ousting people of the land and refusing to accept their applications for material treatment. The article reads: ◯ At 1st. in addition to a new letter, as follows: The applicant has such a connection with another state that it is normal and fair for him to stay there, travel or be transferred there, since he does not have to be persecuted there, want to be accepted as a fugitive, and be protected in accordance with an international contract of refugees. This is a transition to 36th par. foreign shapes and adds to these d-ions. In a paper with the bill, it says "B" section 7. that with the bill it is suggested to measure the occurrence when the applicant for international protection has such a relationship with another state that it can be considered reasonable and normal for him to stay there. When assessing what is considered reasonable and normal, it should include look to the length of residence, family ties, and the possibility of the individual to stay or gain the right to a place in the state. This may be considered when the applicant has not been in the state but has close family ties. It says that the country does not require a party to the refugee agreement, but it is essential that the rights prescribed in it be respected. The Red Cross has pointed out that in many cases it will be almost impossible to make decisions made on the basis of this new D- team, since it is assumed to deny the use of material on the basis of staying for a few days in another state or having family ties to citizens with a patent in the state. The Red Cross points out that in the bill, there is no discussion of how the Icelandic government can predict the implementation of reimbursement to countries on this basis without any accepting agreements in force except for the members of the Dublin Protocol. The Red Cross also shows that there must be an increased demand for assessment of the situation in a possible reception state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u229	A respectable president. Now we've got a what? A senator has a fine opportunity to discuss this point. I just wanted to talk about it for a second. A senator. This is precisely true of the increased demands that must be made to the authorities to evaluate the circumstances and to evaluate the circumstances in countries that are suddenly to be sent to people who have not been previously able to do so. However, there is no increased demand for this in the bill; there is no evidence that there is an increased assessment of any kind or that some other procedure is used to evaluate the situation in countries that are in question. We have seen this in the criticism that has occurred since the Red Cross - and I believe, in fact, that this is one of the main reasons the Red Cross loses its contract, i.e. how strong and clear and good the advocates of refugees he has been, how long his employees have had experience defending the people's rights to escape, how much memory they have. Knowing how this group has been treated, the Red Cross can realistically and so speak with knowledge and should be excluded from continuing work with this class. They're supposed to make sure that he didn't send some more wonderful reviews like the one he just sent. It has been very clear in the criticism of the Red Cross year after year, every time this bill, this nasty bill, has been submitted, that the Foreign Institute does not carry out its field service. You can totally criticize that institution for it. You can also criticize the highest. Minister of Justice for not cleaning up that institution and ensuring that the rule of investigation is respected. And, of course, this government can be criticized for being hostile to escape, for leading the course followed by the Foreign Institute. There is hope to believe that the Foreign Institute is about to meet some further protocol than the one that the Red Cross has repeatedly pointed out that it is not even fulfilled in normal cases. I'm asking why. A senator doesn't agree with me in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u230	A respectable president. I agree wholeheartedly with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator. I think we must be able to agree with the Red Cross that this law is simply too vague and that there is far too little protection demand for a receptional state and for evaluation of the situation. I also think that we must agree that it would have been necessary to look to the viewpoint of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. According to 2 mg. 23rd par. The European Commission shall agree with the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, including the United Nations, with the implementation of a judicial arrangement for international protection. about the implementation and interpretation of the laws of foreigners. This is reflected in comments to the specific rules we address here, and I think it is important that the General and Education Committee take this into consideration when the bill goes to the Committee, which I think will happen from each. I think it's very important to look at it there. Commenting on this, the United Nations refugee Convention does not require a receptional party. The Red Cross is puzzled by this, pointing out that the refugee agreement is the basis for the standards set by Iceland and Iceland's control states for the protection of refugees, and it is even contradictory not to require a party to the refugee agreement but also to state that the applicant must be able to receive protection in the reception country in accordance with the international agreement for refugee status. It's a little reverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-16.u231	A respectable president. I'm gonna let me go beyond what I'm doing. Senator. I'm going to go to the General and Education Committee to see that she throws this law straight into the trash and actually the bill all over. That would be the right thing to do. The bill isn't available, it's inhumane, it's hostile people on the run. It is a disgrace to the council to discuss this for the fourth time, knowing what the consequences will be for one of the most vulnerable groups in the world. It sends out the wrong message about Iceland's position and about responsibility in the international relationship with refugees who have never been more than that, that we're going to tighten our shoulders, let no one in, get rid of as many people, throw people into the ocean's eye. It's not Iceland's rights, equality and democracy, that we pretend to be in a foreign position, that this government is moving into this council hall. It's something else. This does not belong at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It belongs in the garbage can.
