ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u1	The president wants to report that yesterday at a meeting, May 30, was the case of No. 699, HAB and air pollution sites, etc. (storage of carbon dioxide), not referred to. The request was made that the case be referred to an environment and transport committee, and it has been corrected, and the 7th session will be initiated on the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u2	Madam President. Few things have marked the response of the governments to all criticism of the bank sale more and more than to face it forever and always in silence. All the answers and information need to be squeezed out. And I'm here to do exactly that, to squeeze out answers and information, because according to Congress, ministers usually have 15 days to respond to written inquiries. In fact, I made a few inquiries with regard to the bank sale in April. We're almost 30 days. I ask the President for help to get answers to a question I asked, for example. Until April 26, I asked the prime minister whether she had legal authority in mind to investigate the bank office's activities and the office of finance minister, which, in fact, brings up the matter of UNEP, and then another inquiry to put down the bank administration, which was made with a press release instead of discussing it at a government meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The answers are missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u3	President. This is my favorite meeting material. It's a fun program that I usually start off when it's being discussed, which makes up the average duration of response for all stewards. It is, in fact, there. Prior to becoming Minister of Justice, Minister of the Interior, 47 days in reply. Now as Minister of Justice, he has a 34 - day reply period, not 15, as just here. The financial and economic minister has 46 days, not 15. Social and workforce ministers have 51 days, then there's some change, and now it's got 39, but the unsatisfactory questions have a daily amount of 47, so it's increasing there, etc. The Environment, Energy and Climate Minister has 32 days and so on. The shortest response time seems to me to be at the Food Minister for 23 days, although it is quite over the 15 - day limit. This is the situation today, Mr. President, and I am sending a request to the Presidency Committee that this be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u4	President. There seems to be a problem with how long the Ministry is responding to Congress inquiry, which is all but very serious. It must be much more serious when it so proselytizing to respond to queries that are most demanding soon, such as to inquiries directed for the sale of Iceland Bank and to the process that the government has decided to put the case into, that they are asking questions directly about that matter. It must be obvious that these questions need to be answered right away, especially in view of the fact that we are about to finish off and go on vacation and are waiting for a report and all kinds of information. It can't be this late. I sincerely hope that answers soon come and ask the president to help us with the council to get them from the Ministry, for this is urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u5	Madam President. I just want to agree with what my colleagues have said here. We've been talking about this more and less for the whole winter. The General has an enormously important role in monitoring the European Commission. In order to perform this surveillance, the Parliament has authority to demand information, demand data, demand answers from advisers. These are written inquiries, which, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson here is not being answered within the time frame set by the law, and at times even no explanation of that delay is given. Then there's a good reason why in unsubstantiated inquiries, which we can present at the council and get an oral response from the highest level. Counsellors, questions may not be answered. Now, personally, I'm waiting for the answer to four questions, hoping that I can find answers to them before the council finishes. The purpose of these inquiries is especially to know if some action is needed. Compared to the figures as a what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, I am not hoping to be answered before a council will be completely terminated in the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u6	Madam President. Congress officials have come up and talked about their failure to get answers to their written inquiries. But I came up here yesterday in a pita, in unsupervised inquiry, and I didn't get an answer from the prime minister. I just don't get it right. The Council and the Council are to be capable of granting the Commission, the government, the Member States. But how can we do our legal work if we are not getting any information, receive any answers to our inquiries, whether they are verbal or written? I don't need to remind you of the three times I always talk about here in the conference board and how it's done. But there's supposed to be a lot of transparency. We're on the final stretch right before the end of the council, and there's a lot of stuff to be done. But if we do not know exactly what they are, I do not see how members of the Parliament can agree on a program with a good conscience. [[The president calls.]] I would very much like to know if Prime Minister supports the policy of the VG in foreign affairs or of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u7	A respectable president. This discussion is very important and urgent. As noted, one of the most important roles of the council is to monitor the European Commission. It's happening over and over and over, and we come up here and we complain about the President with all due respect, and then we don't do anything about it. The monitoring role is not taken too seriously. What, then, can be done? One of the things we can do now that are obvious when we are faced with council contracts is simply to say: The ministers who have not responded to queries are not granted their business. They will not get their case on the program until they have responded to the legal role of the senator, who is keeping an eye on the European Commission. We need support from the Council's President, support from the Committee to conduct a real surveillance role with the executives. I suggest that there be a thorough investigation that ministers who do not issue their inquiries and generally do not respond to inquiries or the council report requests will only be placed in the refrigerator until they enter office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u8	Madam President. I find this to be in harmony with what is being done by this government and, in fact, in general, by the former governments as well, where ministers somehow go into the administration, enter the administration, and make decisions: I want to do this, I want to do this, I want to do the other, and in fact, without really having much professional evaluation. That's what makes it possible for us here at the council to ask questions about decisions and how they're done. There's not much to answer. However, a minister could thus show how unprofessional he or she is working on decisions within the administration because of the way a minister behaves. A minister, however, would consider himself an agent of the council within the administration. One minister should look forward to coming to the council and say: "Do you know what the government was doing? Well, let me tell you. But this is not done. Instead, a minister fits all his decisions and does not explain how they were made. As a result, there are no answers. Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u9	Madam President. When the World Council Committee asks the President for help to obtain an official agency so as not to get in the way that the U.S. Council can perform its duties by holding to the necessary evidence at the highest level. The president of the Generalis is to act immediately and proceed. Now, of course, it is unfortunate to sit here on the 1st vice president, not the president who has been repeatedly assigned to speak to the head of the Foreign Institute of Iceland, requiring that a full-scale and educational committee be provided with the necessary information so that civil rights can be given here at the spring council. Sadly, though, there is no news. How is it that the president of the Parliament, who is to ensure that the matter of Congress is not going according to the law, will not act excessively? It's the second time at this spring council we're watching that some institution refuses to deny evidence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's very serious, Madam President, and I'd like your help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u10	Madam President. Following this discussion, how it will be affected when ministers not only show disrespect to the General by not responding to written inquiries but rather by contingencies as to who the deadlines are, it must affect the council and the development of events, as mentioned here. In fact, this is one of the few responses and tools the Congress has to deal with in a manner that is related to it. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is often so that a minister can respond to queries within the normal time. The minister is taking part in the program by selecting and waiting for answers, waiting for data when presenting data to the council is not suitable. This makes matters even more serious. This is not to say that there is a structured frame or a language palace. It is not entirely random when answers are made within time and when they are not. I note that the inconsistencies of my bank sales inquiry now rhyme with any other reaction by the government in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u11	Madam President. I strongly agree with any concerns I may have. Senators have tore up here. Since I myself have just a few written requests at the minister's office, in fact, the highest degree. Minister of Justice sitting in the side room, I would like to use this opportunity to challenge the highest degree. A minister to examine the inquiries, both in order to monitor us and also in order for us to be able to support matters that we need. On the contrary, this may be a way to demonstrate that they are doing a good job. I'm the highest. Minister to take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u12	Madam President. I'd like to agree with what's being said. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir's Guindarddóttir on the fact that there are other things that governments aren't providing to the council the information they have rights, not just random and post-authority of the government but as per law, and that is, in fact, due to the payment of citizens's rights and rights. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned here too. It is not random what it is and what information it is that governments are not providing to the General. It is no coincidence that the Foreign Institute refuses to provide evidence to the General for these applications. This is because the National Institute of Foreign Affairs disagrees with the individual members of the Parliament who are extending their citizenship. There's nothing more complicated than that. So it is not a coincidence. This is a situation that is not present. It's the General who tells the Commission what to do, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u13	Madam President. National surgeon's criteria for an acceptable waiting period for patients determine approximately 80% of them to undergo surgery within 90 days. Now, information on the situation of September 1st. for the waiting list of main surgical categories, there are 14 categories of 18 being over the 90-day criteria. This is what the picture looks like, the blue columns are over the 90-day criteria, these little, small, green are under the surgeon's definition. The situation did not improve during winter. We have experts who perform these operations on the land, and they certainly have plenty to do. But the more ridiculous thing is that governments are preventing Iceland's health insurance from participating in the cost of these measures, something that the health - related Icelanders really have the right to do. Therefore, these growths in HCPs are in the form of exporting patients to foreign surgery. You see, the government pays for that shit. It is now unclear how many patients have been rejected from Medical Insurance on Remuneration because of national action on the basis that there is no agreement with the National Experts or Service Providers. It is also unclear what the project is regarding the approval of health insurance on the services of these foreign providers, whether health insurance has made data on national contracts and whether paying health insurance to these parties is in accordance with these agreements. I find it normal to require the government that this information is available and that it be taken into consideration when making decisions to maintain the present position. I require that the thousands of people who have waited for an unacceptable time after necessary service, on behalf of the health - secure Icelanders who are forced to pay full price for action on the land because they do not trust in overseas for action, and for taxpayers, because we know that the total cost of the state of operations abroad is considerably higher than would be carried out in this country. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. A month ago I asked a health - care minister who included: to these things and I wait for answers excitedly and assume that they will shed an important light on a position that most of us are incomprehensible to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u14	I don't know. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u15	Madam President. ▪ Sometimes I feel welcome and sometimes I don't. I didn't know what to do when I came here, I didn't get support. The big misunderstanding is that we immigrants are not well educated or that we are fleeing from poverty. We can't put all immigrants in the same box. We're always watching immigrants come here like they didn't have any life, like they were born at the Cheflavour Airport. I was somebody. A respectable president. These were the voices of women of foreign origin, which the National Association of Henar's Voice has collected in the book Henar's Voice: The stories of women of foreign origin in Iceland that will be published later this year. In the recent New Creation week, the very way women of foreign origin in Iceland are ruined by resources in Icelandic society, women who bring new ideas and knowledge into our small community. It is of utmost importance that this variety of perspectives and experience are activated in the period of innovation. The evidence also shows that women of a foreign background have less employment in this country; it also shows that women of foreign origin receive about 10 to15% less pay than Icelanders with the same experience and education. Yes, as one of the interviewers put it, it is sometimes as if we think that they were born at the arrival of the Keflavor Airport. Today's program is a standard for equal treatment regardless of the ethnic background. Even if this bill is well-recognized, you can do better if you want it done. We need to work hard to locate all the walls of women of a foreign background and to fix the best of things. A respectable president. It is important that we listen to the voices of women of foreign origin and make their experiences of equality a better country. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u16	Madam President. Where is the Ministry of Health for the Future Party? There is literally no news. Or, yes, it is reported that there is nothing to do to improve the fear - inspiring conditions of the health system of the past few years in spite of health care professionals who are constantly running faster and faster. Or, yes, it is best to know that the government now intends to privatize services to older people who have stayed atvious sites instead of actually going into a global structure on our very fragile health systems, a real structure that takes into account the demand for needed service, the distribution of land services, the perspectives of resources, housing, and financial resources. Or, better still, it's reported that all nurses who have had the phone response to the medical department have had the phone response, phone response that has actually been the curator of health care care around the country, phone response where users of health care and staff have been able to consult qualified specialists with many different kinds and comprehensive knowledge. Madam President. So we're going to go to the top of all those metaphors. He or she will understand them, and I would like to point out that he is well within the first half and out of the team stream the key players who have held the team floated. The people in the stands are whispering among themselves that it is time for coaching, since patience is low after a smooth walk during the last term. It wasn't just one employee who quit at the Land Hospital yesterday, there was a key hospital worker at the emergency room in Fosgi who quit because of prolonged stress and no release in sight. Other key workers plan to leave because people leave the Watch with a grueling conscience and regret at the government's command. No, there's no news from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u17	Madam President. It stands to dismiss a group of people who have been in this country for a long time, even since the beginning of the Covid pandemic. In order to manage this situation, members of Pirata, Conspira, Reunion, and Shock People have provided a bill that the situation related to the pandemic is not considered to be the responsibility of candidates. It would be a ridiculous, respectable president to allow the situation of the pandemic to bite refugees, a situation they obviously have no responsibility for. The people who point to the country have been considered responsible for delay in their case because they have not responded to a request to attend a so-called PCR test to make their flights. What doesn't have to do with the story is how police and Foreign Office carried out these requests. Strictly speaking, the procedure is described in the following way: The police are meeting the unsupervised at the home of candidates and covering up text on an English form. No interpreter or lawyer is present and is not offered as such, and his request has not been made. People often don't understand what's going on. Have many of these individuals e.g. Said he did not understand whether the case was about screening or vaccination or anything else, and much less what the consequences of not attending could be. If people do not understand this, they are invited to say yes or no, whether they intend to cooperate. If they don't understand either, they are asked whether they want to go or not, and of course they don't want to go, but the majority of these people were to be referred to as Greece and Hungary, as we have seen. So if a few weeks later the person's case was delayed himself, it would not be the case. Although no legal adjustment is needed to resolve this issue, we have now offered the General way to intervene and stop this unacceptable project and encourage the entire U.S. council to consider and accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u18	Madam President. Yesterday at the Council of NATO in Vilnius, I gave Iceland a firm support for the holding of Finland and Sweden to NATO and stressed that both countries will promote and strengthen the alliance further. It is not likely that in the long run, the Russians will reevaluate their position with NATO in the north if they become part of the two Arctic states. Then I also stressed that we are all aware that the North is becoming more and more important, especially in the development of international politics and the joint aim of member countries to maintain north-lands as low-volved areas. We must assume that the Russians will respond to local developments. With the entry of Finland and Sweden, seven of the eight Arctic countries will become NATO. So I think it's likely to have a direct bearing on the Russians'plans in the area. Although it is a common goal to maintain the North as a low-voltage region where stability and cooperation exist, we must be prepared for the possibility that the Russians will decide to arm the north countries further. So do the Baltic States. So I asked the assistant director of NATO, Mircea Geoana, how the development of the region affected the role of NATO in the north. He replied that the entrance to Finland and Sweden in NATO would clearly have a major impact on stability in the Baltic region. NATO, however, would not have a direct role in the northern part of the world, but with Finland and Sweden's involvement, the area will increase. However, the common aim of member countries and North Poles will continue to be emphasised on maintaining north-lands as low-volved areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u19	A respectable president. We need to take the initiative to make new and necessary steps in foreign affairs. In view of the changed circumstances in Iceland, decisions that will strengthen the country's position need to be made, both economic and social, as well as protection. There have been other countries. Foreign Ministers are now in trouble, for the Treaty binds her hands and the result is little more than a minimum commitment to our alliances in NATO and the EU. There is nowhere to go in the light of new and changed world conditions. In defense, we have in Wesun said that we should show a stronger solidarity with our alliances by greatly increasing our participation in civilian activities related to the activities of NATO. We have also suggested that discussions with the United States return, to adopt the defense agreement, which will ensure that they will reach the national security network as well as include possible internal attacks. This cannot be done by contradictions within the government. You can't really talk about NATO in this country. Outwardly, VG supports Swedish blessed applications and finds involvement in NATO. And in foreign lands, VG supports the expansion of NATO. Then the VG comes home and talks about Iceland resigning from NATO. These are paradox situations that we live in. There is strong political evidence that we are already starting our next European cooperation step. We need to sit at the table with the national democracies in Europe. This is true both for NATO and for the EU. By doing so, we strengthen the political standing of the country and provide more rapid support for economic and commercial interests at the present hour. But it is also our duty to promote the cooperation of nations that believe in democracy, free trade, and that the same guidelines apply to large nations as small nations. [[The president calls.]] An attack on our common values is an attack on national security. These precious values must be protected everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u20	Madam President. The Danish people make a big decision tomorrow, vote whether the dance state should fail from its exception to share in the European Union's defenses. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has recommended that the people of the country vote against continuing outside the defensive policy. This is a big decision, which, of course, has an obvious significance following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The result is not obvious, but this country has responded to a changed position in Europe by talking to the nation about the interests of their interests. The same has been true of Finnar and Sweden, first through conversation with the nation and then with the decision to apply for participation in NATO. It is for good reason that the Council has proposed a national agreement to continue Iceland's Member States activities at the European Union. The new reality of security and defense calls for evaluation of Iceland's interests, new evaluations on whether their interests are better spent inside or outside. Controversy and reasoning on the fundamental interests of the people must be given. National agreements are particularly effective when it comes to developing and deepening the debate on Iceland's status and its interests for European cooperation. A great convergence has prevailed here at the General Assembly on a firm basis for Ukraine's cause and on helping a Ukrainian nation in every way possible. A discussion also needs to be followed on how the changed situation affects Europe and Iceland. That is why all classes should unite that conversation, about the pros and cons in this situation, and that is the nation to make the decision. I want to end it because we're always discussing national willingness, that there's the ideologies of democracy at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u21	President. Let's set up a little play here. I'm a minister, and I get applications for the office manager's position in my Ministry. It's at the top of my sister's list, and I'll just say, "Yes, listen, it's at the top of an audition. I'll just hire her. Great. Who'd be crazy around here? All of them? I guess so. It would be completely ridiculous for me to be hiring my sister in a government job. That would be crazy. But I'm like, "Hey, she's allowed to apply for, of course - like there's some protection because I'm hiring her. " Yes, my sister could apply for the job, but, of course, I was not allowed to hire her as a minister. There's a conflict of interest. That's what we all know. This is totally undisputed. A similar problem is we're dealing with in the Bank of Iceland. There was a father, a member of a financial minister, who bought state property, and he could, I suppose, but a minister could not sell it to him. That's very clear. It's exactly like hiring a job. But for some reason, we still have the same minister who sold state property for some spectacular strange cause. We're waiting for the results of State Accounting or FESI that I don't know if this part of the matter is really going to be taken care of. I look forward to seeing that report and to see if anything is said about this part of the matter. Of the examples we know about, e.g. the court or the order of judges or something like that - if I were a minister to order some judge, of course, I could not order a family member. I'd have to step aside. I'd be incompetent. Obviously. We all agree on that. Surely all of us agree on this and see the reasons for it to be. But for some reason everyone who is selling Iceland is forgetting. So I look forward to seeing these reports, and I look forward to seeing if this problem will be discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u22	A respectable president. The whole world is responding to the effects of the war in Ukraine. But where are we in Iceland? A number of countries have already contributed more money to agriculture to prevent the breakdown of food production. It takes an additional amount of money to address the agricultural sector at the beginning of the year. In the following April, the Finnish Ministers'Committee on Emergency Opportunities decided to put 300 million euro to the aid of domestic food production. The emergency pack contains some. pay to strengthen and support farmers' financial resources and long-term operations; more than 27 million euros to build firehouses, greenhouses, vegetables and gardening products, cleaning and fishing roads, and 45 million euro to reduce energy taxes. Anything is done to strengthen and increase food production within the country. A respectable president. In Norway farmers and governments have recently completed agricultural policy contracts by 2022/2023. During the past few years, Norwegian farmers have pursued commercial development compared with other branches. There's another place up there now. Norwegian governments have met farmers and have added to their progress in the last few years. The cost of farmers in Norway will be fully met with a higher price and official support. With these measures, the support of Norwegian farmers will increase by 10.9 billion dollars and increase the prices of the agricultural industry by 1.5 billion. A respectable president. What can governmental authorities do to secure the national food security? Is there a basis for looking at agriculture repairs, as was the case in the Korean epidemic and now for reducing the cost of Russian war action in Ukraine? By following the Norwegian ways, you could prevent rising numbers to consumers and prevent the farmers who have taken on increased increases but who avoid rolling them into the prices. Government policy is to increase and rely on food production in the country. Being a free and sovereign nation is part of the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u23	A respectable president. During the fourth month of war in Europe, there is good reason to remind us again that we will not forget our obligation to our friends in Ukraine. It was very disappointing to read news because some EU nations had used a gap in the business pressure of the Union to sell weapons to Russia in spite of the ban that came after the Russian infurcata. There, the leading nations, Germany and France, became the leading members of the United States. At the same time, Germany is hiking to send weapons to the Ukraine that they sorely need. Since then, it has taken too long to reach the conclusions of severe penalties. This is where the import ban on oil from Russia is crucial, but the EU leaders finally agreed on it yesterday. Of course, this has led to a serious business policy on Russia, which has made Europe dependent on Russian energy. It sucks to think that Europe financed Pútín war business with oil and gas purchases. So here we are seriously discussing that we are entering the European Union, including the European Union. due to the safety and protection issues. Though each day we become more immune to the horrors, the next thing we know is that evolution is reverse in the face of the war. Each day in conflict and persecution, each hour, must suffer as an eternity. It is vital, therefore, that our actions are not just in word but are shown in action, and European leaders cannot use the war to decorate themselves with empty fables. We cannot accept anything but solidarity and mutual sacrifices to defend our common values.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss a matter that should be a priority at the Generals of the Icelands. The ability to study is fundamental to our individual effectiveness, the key to learning, learning, and learning. What is the situation with regard to children and young people in Iceland, with their own literature nation, a nation known for its priceless contribution to the literature of the world? Few things have shaped the image of the Icelanders as much as that they are a book nation, to have written the magnificent manuscripts, the very self - murder of Iceland and Norway's rumors, to name something. The rest of the North are talking about a highly respectful voice. When examining the results of reading skills, it appears that the emperor has no clothes on the book people. Strange silences have been made about this issue in the media and in the community talk. That in itself is an investigation. Research shows that 92.5% of immigrants have red and yellow light for Icelandic, which may not be Icelandic. This is according to a report from the city of Reykjavík in 2019 C.E. More than nine out of ten immigrant children seem unable to achieve skills in Icelandic language. Reaching the language spoken in the community is fundamental to being an active member of society. Where is the discussion of this enormously important matter? Research shows that 15 - year - old children of Norwegian and Danish immigrants, according to PIIA study 2018, score more in learning than Icelandic boys of the same age, teenagers in Southnes, Western and Northern countries. Research shows that 39% of children after second grade school in Reykjavík are not studying for their benefit. We don't have information from other societies, unfortunately. Research shows that 38% of 15 - year - olds do not achieve basic skills in reading and mathematics. This is a terrible situation. Who is responsible for this? [[The president calls.]] Yes, it is the Allied Parliament who is responsible for this and no one else. We have to start doing something about these things. [[The president calls.]] There are already results and ways to teach children how to read in the world, and we should use them and no other methods. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u25	I don't know. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u26	V.E.G. President. Taxation of special property does not measure up to any requirements for reasonableness or justice. As an example of a tax discount, there is a discount for individuals due to the purchase of stocks and tax charges for companies who want to run a major farm here and films or TV programs in Icelandic environment. By paying taxes on special savings, important national goals are being pursued. Exceptions from the rule that tax beatings are just as bad as any of those that they enjoy are about to turn to people 60 years of age and older who have been authorized to take out their special property. With these people, there is a heavy tax demand to tax the property as if it were payable. He's not. It's an inherited property. In fact, money is like flowing water, property is like lakes, says Dr. Ólafur Ísleifsson, a former senator, in a recent article in the Morning newspaper on taxation of special savings. The government recognizes the special savings as property, inherited and protected from demands, authorized by law to reserve special tax-free loans on mortgages. Those who look at apartment purchases can obtain special tax-free income at first payment. The special property savings is taxed as if it were income. We've got 22% tax of capital income. A tax gain that lays on taxes as if it were income could not survive. People are discriminated against by income and taxation on their special property. Those who agree on the law on how to buy an apartment will avoid the tax. I testify, by permission of the President, to Dr Ólafur Ísleifsson: Is there a time when the 90th rule applies? When will the government pass the taxation of special property into an acceptable standard where there is a accepted difference in taxation depending on whether property or income is involved? When will the government respond to obvious facts?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u27	Madam President. When I first sat down to the council as a vice worker in late last year, I made a proposal to make a decision to make a plan to promote grain production in Iceland. The importance of growing crops in Iceland has since grown dramatically, requiring immediate decisions and plans. The price of grain has risen because of the war in Ukraine, with its effect on farmers and consumers. International relief agencies believe that famine is more expensive than ever when poor countries depend on food support. Why, though, does the Ukraine war have such an impact on the harvest market? Although the land is large and productive, for example, the population in Ukraine produces only 4% of the world's wheat. Compared to Iceland's Fishing About 1% of all fish in the world. The reason for this great impact is that most of the grains are not in the world market. The market for grain amongst countries may be one tenth of the total production, with Ukraine being very large in the form of most of the most important species; sunflowers, corn, wheat, and barley. This is the simplest explanation. In addition, Ukraine is close to very large harvesters who cannot feed themselves, Middle East, and nearby. We are one of those nations who also rely on this worldwide market of grain. We have built up our agriculture in a way that requires that we import almost all grains. It may have been right in the last century, but it is the second century. We have knowledge, technology, man, and land to produce quite a bit of the grain we need in humans and animals. On the other hand, certain agricultural support systems have to be made so that they are encouraging to harvest grain, and I believe that the premise is finally there to advance that issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u28	V.E.G. President. Remotes, telecommunications, telecommunications, telecommunications, telecommunications, telecommunications, telecommunications, In recent years, we have learned that we have far more opportunities to participate in society than we previously realized. World epidemics and technological developments have, for example. leads to a much greater share in the community despite e.g. Weather style, home with sick children, or because of something else that can happen. We can participate through the Internet. They have given people the opportunity to plan their programs much better and more on their terms. We have here given the committees an opportunity to talk to members of the committee and visitors through telecommunications equipment. Hence, individuals have not had to travel long distances, sometimes from corner to corner, in order to present their envelopes and respond to council inquiries. This has also been important for us, who live outside the capital area. Colleges left, for example. To make lectures online, which were once inaccessible to those who could not enter the classroom for various reasons. As a result of increased telecommunications, many enrolled in studies that previously did not stand a chance to do so because of distance. I think it's a positive development, but we need to be careful that there's no setback. These things matter. We do not place our entire community on telecommunications systems, but technology needs to be available to those who need it and who want to use technology, and we help build up the field. Let us be careful not to go back in evolution and participate in the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-31.u29	Madam President. The programme for use and protection of natural areas was not planned at this time. Environment and Transport Committee this morning. According to the Work Programme, I read it correctly, six days later, our 152th Council is active. I'm starting to feel a little nervous, and I'm beginning to worry that a work programme for environmental use and protection, a so-called framework, will not be handled by the Environment and Transport Committee at this council. There is good reason to worry about that. It was measured for the fourth time since she saw the day light in 2016, six years ago, here at Congress in the fall, or rather after a year's convention, if I recall this correctly, but five times this same schedule, the third stage of a frame plan, has been on the legal record of the government that has been present. The same categories that are late and early do not tire out by discussing the importance of renewable energy or electricity production and the need for energy exchange now seem to be on hand for the payment of this important milestone in the framework and the decision to use and protect natural areas here. At the same time as the fourth stage is about To be ready and started, the 5th stage is set for the 3rd stage of the Framework Programme fixed on the right. One more trip, an environment and transportation committee, just about six years after he saw the day. There's a reason to ask, Madam President, "What's the cause?"
