ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Vice President of the Falcon Party that Tómas A. Tómasson can't attend next week. A letter has also been received by Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, that he will be absent in the near future. Today, therefore, at the World Council of 1st, vice-president of the Gangs in Smoke. n., Kolbrún Baldursdóttir, and 1st Lipper of the Gangs in Southvest. "Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir. They have previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again. Borist has a letter from Katrín Friðriksson, 8th. Smoke. So, that she'll be gone soon. It is therefore requested that Dennis Lúðvíksson be seated at the General Assembly today, a 3rd substitute on the U.S.A. Front. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. A letter has also been received from Sigmundi, Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, 7th. That's the north side. "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Therefore, Shrimp Sigmundsson, a member of the General Assembly, is a 2nd deputy of the Central Party's list in the district and replaces them with a 3rd deputy, Ágústa Ágústsdóttir, of the council. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u2	At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. The 113th Amendment to Dagbjartur Gunnar, son of Lúðvíksson, and Theorgím, the Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the vote and their success.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u3	V.E.G. President. Hv. The commission and monitoring committee included a vote and an election for Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson's son and Gunnar' Lúðvíksson at their meetings this morning and suggests that it will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u4	The board of directors recommends the election of Dagbjartur Gunnar, son of Lúðvíksson, and Þorgimur the Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson, to be agreed without a vote if there is no objection. Sigmundsson has previously taken his seat at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work. The Dagbjartur of Gunnar the son of Lúðvíksson has not taken up residence in the Council before, so it is time to sign a solemn pledge to the Constitution. I want to pray. A senator to write under the title.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u5	The Dagbjartur of Gunnar the son of Lúðvíksson has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u6	The President has received two letters of recall. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson calls back a bill on deck. 519, Case 369, driving a cab. Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson calls back a bill on the threshing floor. 152, case 150, on patient rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u7	The president has agreed with the Commission and members of Congress to make adjustments to the work programme. Based on the General Programme, it is Wednesday, March 23, and Thursday, March 24th. However, it has now been decided to have a meeting in those days, starting at 15 on Wednesday and 10:30 on Thursday. Committees will be meeting for conference these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u8	Borist has received a letter from the Food Minister requesting every time to provide a written answer to a spell query. 484, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 552, about the police' arms, from H Hafdís Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir. A letter has been received from the Ministry of Education and Children where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the application of the letter. 545, of the Ministry's responsibility for violence and its consequences, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Finally, letters from the social and workforcer have been received on request every request to provide written answers to panel requests. 550 on labour control, from the Kolbrún-Baldursdóttir, to the threshing floor. 432, on the uniform welcome of refugees, and on thejaw. 433, the estimated increase in cost of refugees, both of Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u9	President. The Constitution of the government is now in place, and no action is found in this country because of the increase in prices. Even so, ministers serving in the government have alluded to this. Investment has arrived where no money can be found for counter measures. If anything is to be done in the next six months, I repeat six months, I need to agree to a warrant for this council. We're running out of time. Therefore, I would like to ask a respectable president to ask if there is really a matter of Congress on the subject of the situation. This confirms my suspicions of complete inadequacy, with little understanding of any possible action soon to take. Perhaps it would be more just to declare that there is nothing that will be done here in contrast with the welfare communities around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u10	President. I also come up here because of the updated Government Parliamentary Act, but perhaps especially to stress that the Minister of Health has abandoned his plan to provide a bill for the possession of consumer drugs, which is an extremely important case that we have been waiting for for a long time. A former health minister was going to bring it up, and he did. Then it was put on a committee by her own government. It seems that the matter is not going to be clear either. President. We must insist that a case that the government has promised to bring forth here - and it has decided on Porta's case, same matter, with the argument that the health minister is about to file a case. This is the second time the matter is not to be observed. There is a group of people in the community who suffer. This is an important decommissioning process. People are dying of high doses of drugs. [[The president calls.]] People are suffering permanent damage because of this destructive criminal policy. [[The president calls.]] I object that this case is no longer in the Government Constitution and requires an answer to why it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u11	The President wants to state that the following questions are not prepared where the opportunity to ask a minister, but they are now being discussed with the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u12	President. I could believe that this meeting manager talks include... As dedicated to today's conference hall, extraordinary attendance is by the Minister of the Government of Iceland. But I also wanted to talk about a revised strategy on making a donation on the part of the government that was presented today. It gives the first high attention to the fact that the government's own legal record is becoming very healthy. There's one thing. But I would be interested in getting the information on the jury of two ministers, especially, and that's from the highest level. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of child care. According to the current medical record, it is being dropped by a health minister to ensure the integration of services for successful children, and I can see no better than that it is also done according to the official document. It's the flagship of the forward party. Is this the new move for land all the good news? What will happen to these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u13	A respectable president. I marvel at the failure of the government to the homes of the country in the present state. We've been over this over and over. I've already submitted, and the party of the people, a number of primes, including about the freezing of the index number on loan insurance and renting only this year. It would have been valid, and it would have been necessary, since January 1. If we're lucky and we get this out of a committee, it's definitely gonna take a favor, then maybe from April 1. The damage is already done. We've already spoken for the housing team and index number. Why is the staff in the index? Housing is not a consumer product, in no way. There's no way to define a place like that. It would remember 2% of the inflation if using the index without housing teams. She's real. She's up at the Hagna's. [[The president calls.]] The government has to start taking responsibility for the situation here and defend the home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u14	A respectable president. This updated Constitution so well confirms where this government stands in social affairs and the open and free society. The drop of drug consumption falls out, the problem of dealing with the health - related problems of drug users rather than in the justice system, but the foreign bill of Justice shall be put on stress, a bill that is about to impair the rights of people who seek international protection in Iceland, which is about to harden Iceland's foreign policy. There should be some payment and publicity here at the council, not from the crime charge of consumers, not from the perimeter-set group. That is where priority is placed. It's a government that represents conservativeness and restraint. It is a government that resists social liberality, and this updated Constitution is designed by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u15	A respectable president. There is much to discuss now when we can see a little more clearly on the cards available from the government at this point in the Senate. One thing I'd like to say after I've been given a convention of the Future Party since this weekend: This is where the head of the Party spoke very clearly about raising the cost of hunting, he spoke of excessive profits. So has their vice president. It has also been done by the head of the professional trade committee, from the advance team. So I'd like to call the attention of the United States and its president to the fact that there is a clear majority of the increase in fishing costs in this country. I'm going to throw it out to all of us, and perhaps least to the advance party, that these words come with us, and that we are going to do this work. Neither would it be impossible to advertise only VG and Independence. How do people feel that this is developing so much more than a fine political body for raising hunting costs, even though it is not within the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u16	Mr. President. Changes in the Constitution are not just about priorities but about policy. The fact that the second gauze of this winter in a Congressary list gave rise to the standards of consumer crime that have been dropped on this issue. Everything else is a premium. This is a case that no member of the board put into this whole plagiar file, I think we could have seen now. Likewise, it shows a policy of dealing with stress and not ridding up a bill for change in foreigners, the most disgusting bill of this winter, in which the Minister of Justice is going to treat refugees as badly as possible. And what does it tell us that now it will survive? Yes, it does tell us that there is no disagreement within the parties that the matter had to be grit. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the differences or differences between the parties in criminal matters were determined by the Constitution. The categories want to have the foreign bill on the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] All three of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u17	* This* needs to be listened to by a respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the seriousness of the constantly throwing in the political affairs without financial resources and financing. Money policy already aims to be broken. This is for the next four years. The political treaty is far from reflected in financial policy throughout this period. We're on more than 6% inflation, it's headed for 7% inflation, the big well-being business is in here, the largest PR case in the last election, the successful bill, the exporting of it is not even on the agenda anymore. There are no conferences relevant to the situation in this country today. You'd think there was no feeling, no sans, for the position of many in this country, not to mention a new matter of Congress. Where's the rent law like that? The one who was supposed to contribute here? It's ready. Why isn't this even assigned to the council? There is no basis for the welfare issues in this country and even a Senate case outside of Congress, there is nothing to talk about that big case that's taking care of everything right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u18	A respectable president. There were some matters I thought I could support in the already existing Constitution. That was even. A law of criminal abuse that I really wanted to do, knowing that outside the community, people were going to be indicted for having consumers inside their clothes. In fact, I felt completely ridiculous that our laws worked that way. The second, of course, is this successful bill spoken of for many years. Well, I guess it's been the forward group that made the most sense of suggesting this? The rural communities in Iceland have been fully preparing to work in accordance with that law and bill. But with what you see now, it just doesn't seem to be on the agenda. Then you say, "Why don't you just dress for elections? "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u19	A respectable president. The Constitution now available from the government shows that this government is absolutely aimless. It's a kind of business. It's as if she doesn't know exactly what she's going to do during this terms. It may well be that the bill will appear in the fall where something is going to be done for the homes, but it's not now. People's party has produced many cases of changes to the social security system. [[The point is, not good enough.]] - Not good enough? All you need to do is study the bills, just read them. We've probably got the biggest experts in the social security system in this councilroom. These are small changes, these are not major changes, but it is totally in the deaf of these issues, and they will probably not be able to do anything but speak in the hall and fight. These changes are not mere changes or changes in basics but changes to improve the quality of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. All that government seems to do is sit forward. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it is time for candidates to start thinking about what they say in the media, about having their actions speak here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u20	President. During the last week, we saw wonders and wonders occurring at the council. It was the highest. A minister who listened to a council hall and withdrew a case that was very controversial because it would have been a violation of human rights if it had been approved. We have another bill on the program, foreign law. Was it retracted in the updated file? Oh, no. The violation of human rights is to be legalized. V.E.G. President. We need to be on guard here in the walls of the High Generalis not to make laws that violate human rights. It would be much easier to take this foreign bill and, like the highest. The health minister did, consulted, and fixed the steps needed to settle matters as serious as these. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u21	Mr. President. The situation has now become a relatively small period of time left for this council. Is it because we have been so preoccupied with what we have to do with a council that so many of the matters are taken away from the program? No, it's because the government has drawn its feet in suing the council that we can discuss and take sides. We can clearly see the conclusions today, after this third adjustment in the compromise, the actual priorities of the government, as has been explained here. This shows that what is most important to the government is to exploit those who may be remembered in this community. First of all, I'm going to mention consumers of drugs that live in the health system, not in the punishment system, and that's how we feel. There's been a hearing of the government here so that the case hasn't been handled well enough. Besides, it wasn't working well enough again. Then the government itself takes it up, and again it's not her own business that works well enough. Then a little more evaluation is needed. It's a premium. And the other witness to this course is, of course, the bill presented here is repeatedly in a more repugnant picture, which is primarily going out on the breaking of foreigners who are looking here in need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u22	A respectable president. They're not good enough. a minister of his own self-imposed in the spirit of the House of forwarders for a discussion of the Congress of the Gangs, a minister who was just about to cancel his own bill for cabs so badly worked on the behalf of the Minister that he did not trust the Council Committee to correct the errors and therefore must be restored. What are the Prime Ministers doing? Yes, the highest. The Minister of Child Affairs has reassigned his second case of two to the Government's Constitution. V.E.G. The minister of culture and commerce has not made it known the three cases that were due to be entered before the end of January but has dropped three of seven cases. I think maybe the Specialist Party should start shoving up sleeves and taking care of what they're doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u23	A respectable president. It was written by the highest. A weekend ago a minister of finance in the news said that an action to cope with inflation was taken. V.E.G. A minister of culture and commerce has called upon such measures, either that banks somehow adopt it to support a home in debt or that the transfers and bank tax will be used. Inflation is now well over 6%. V.E.G. The minister of finance has concealed himself from the fact that there are not many homes or many individuals who are not registered. I just wondered, " How much is inflation to become and how many people have to get into it before it gets to the top? ' The government ceases to look at things, reacts, and brings them into the council, financed matters, in support of vulnerable groups, and the homes that are the main target of rising inflation and growth?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to add this here, which is in terms of the attitudes reflected in this behavior of the government, to present this file as it is. Not only is this disrespect to citizens, citizens of Iceland and other citizens here, but it is disrespectful to the council as well. Instead of taking steps to settle matters that are acceptable, or at least there is some agreement in word, such as delinquency consumption rations, and allowing the council to resolve a good case so that we can make some progress in this community, this is a emphasis on a matter that we are going to take over over and over and over and over and over, which is known to be not satisfied and will not be allowed through this council in an easy way. It's just that kind of thing. This is a disgrace to our work, to our role, the possibility we have here at the Icelandic legislature Convention to improve this community and disrespect to the people of the country as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u25	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Woods, Food Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Education and Children's Ministers, Social and Employment Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u26	Mr. President. In 2015 a Parliamentary decree was proposed at a council to put the government in charge of further discussions with the EU, on the full involvement of Iceland. The chairman of the VG, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, recommended the proposal in the absence of the chairman of the Continental Society, who was the first traveling overseer, and said, in fact, that he was a member of the United States. in a transport address, with permission: In this case, I feel that the democracy is gaining weight, that the matter is of that magnitude, and there are so many aspects of it that we are naturally looking for the nation's guidance and agree to uphold its democratic guidance. I wholeheartedly agree with the words of VG's chairman and the current highest. Prime Minister. However, the same synonym was now distributed here by three political groups. So I simply want to know if it's the highest. Surely, the prime minister does not yet believe that the matter is of the order of magnitude that it is normal to look to the nation for guidance. So the question is very simple: Will Ministers support the re-published Parliamentary decrees of the Conspiracy, the Revolutions and Pirata for the National Court for continuation of discussions about Iceland's involvement in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u27	Mr. President. Hv. Looking back, a senator reviews our history from the time of applying for involvement in the European Union in 2009. In fact, I believe that this journey would have been more successful if it had been attacked by a national law before it was submitted. I'm going to say it here in this chair, and I think in fact I said it before, that I think it was a mistake for me and for others who voted against the proposal to attack a folk bill before being applied for membership. But that's the way it was. Then it was crucial that this application would be submitted and that national law would not be attacked before we passed it. I have not changed my view that I feel that it is very important to look to the people for guidance on such important matters. I think, as I said, it would have been better done that way in 2009. But I would also like to say that it is important that at the General Assembly, the position of the greater part of the council is about taking such a journey, applying for involvement in the European Union. I see that this issue is back on schedule, especially as a result of international development. But I'm also going to make it quite honest that I believe that Iceland is well paid where it is, that we should not invade the European Union. Then I have been molded for quite a while because I simply think that the faults are much more than the benefits, although I am the first person to admit that this is not a black/white matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u28	Mr. President. No matter what the opinion of the contemporanator in the last place, the members of the Council of the Year are fully valid. It's never been withdrawn from the Council. But it's interesting to have the highest. The minister says: "Yes, it is important to ask the people, but we still need to know what much of the body of Congress feels about involvement. It is likely to refer to the political impossibility at its highest level. Secretary of finance has talked a lot about it. You'll have the highest. In some way, the prime minister rejects such theories because the group against national security and against NATO does, in part, make it part of the government covenant. I must reiterate my question. The question is very simple, and we must, Mr. President, be able to demand an answer: The prime minister supports the opportunity for the nation to vote on whether we will continue the terms of membership? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u29	Mr. President. Well, first of all, I don't feel anything like that. A senator here says about the involvement of the Atlantic Community and its involvement in the European Union, since Iceland is a member of the Atlantic Community and has been the one since its establishment. But the other is quite another decision, to decide to go back to applying for participation in the EU. That's quite right, though. A senator rightly pointed out that the Council never retracted that application, and was very controversial at its time, including by me. I would have found it better to have been done at that time, and, actually, it is so, if I remember correctly, that there is another group in a government stand, suggesting to withdraw the application on the part of the General Assembly, and if I don't forget, it's the people's party. I just want to tell you honestly here that I think it's important to know that there's more of a part in the council to follow a memberal application to the European Union. I would have stressed it if the more part is here at the council that the greater part of the nation's search for direction before it was said.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u30	A respectable president. Once again, reports of the supersaturated executives of public property and again shake ministers and other councilmen in the head and act at the same time as something they just can't handle and can't do. But is that so? Now it is clear that the director of national activation had over 43 million a year's wage, or 3.6 billion. K. every month, and director of Istavia with 42 million, making 3.5 million a month. At the same time, the average wage in this country is less than 700,000. per month, about 8.4 million per year, and the common fixed monthly pay of the tax paid by a partner in the Elli is about 370,000 U.S., which accounts for about 4.5 million per year. K. The annual accounts of RUV, Iceland's mail, Hörpp and Energy Western have not yet been published, so that some official ohf. companies are mentioned, so not all of them have been buried on their president's salary. However, it is clear that ordinary employees, people who have much to discuss in the fall, are offered enough. The government is under obligation to stop this overdose of pay. You can hardly call it anything but failure when selected managers, who are actually low demand, have more than five times the average and cover ten times the average population. This failure must be terminated, and in this context, I would like to point out that there are political groups that put their people in the administrations of these companies. So much of the government's administration of the U.S. government is made up of members of the government. These people, represented by the government, have approved this salary. So I ask: Is it reasonable for a minister to think that a government worker has 43 million salary a year? And will the government groups approve of these evil choices based on the government's people, who operate at their command by doing nothing? What kind of message is this in autumn's bridal talks? Or will the government groups go ahead with good example and deprive people who have let this happen on their watch, their authority, and replace other people who hopefully become more qualified?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. This is a big issue, and in terms of basic factors, such as what the pay of society should be and how we would like to conduct decisions on the pay of the highest government in the state. I'd like to remind you here that during the last term, the government's decision was to put down the Council of Kjars, which had been a very controversial phenomenon, and to make that policy decision to the highest government's salary, including ours. Councilmen, shall be determined by the pay development of public markets. Thus it would be certain that our reward development and other highest officials would never be led, which I thought was a very important decision. As for the director of public companies, they and they don't hear these laws. V.E.G. However, a secretary of finance involved in these companies has called for the salary change, whether it conflicts with or is out of shape with general pay development, as well as the decisions made on these raises. Hv. A senator refers to the responsibility of the management of the business and I think it is important that we go into it because, according to government policy, this pay is never leading to; that it is what is competitive, but it is not the result of pay development. I just want to finally say about officers, whether in state or in public market, that it is extremely important that these people show responsibility for the better business ahead of them. I couldn't agree more. A senator says that it is not merely the responsibility of the general employee of pay that we can negotiate agreements. Rather, it is the responsibility of those who, whether in public or in public, lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u32	A respectable president. I didn't get the answers to the question, e.g. Whether it is reasonable for a government minister to feel that the government workers have 43 million in wages a year and whether the government groups will approve of it. The fact is, the government is responsible for this. The people of these governments are represented by political parties, and a greater part of them is represented by the governments, so ruling rulers are responsible for the decisions of these governments. A body of advice was laid down so that the directors answer to something that no one understands. And if these figures and wages conflict with pay, does this need to be discussed? Clearly, this reward conflicts with everything. I have not seen that there is some huge competition for people in these positions. [[The president calls.]] There must be people who are willing to do those jobs for less. [[The president calls.]] Nobody's worth that much. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u33	Mr. President. I reiterate my view that I find the responsibility of those who are very successful and that I think we are. A senator would agree. She asked: "What has the government done so far? I mentioned the rejection of the Council of Kjarnar, which was a very important step in time. I'd also like to remind you that it's not long since the highest. The secretary of finance sent a letter to the State's Bank because of the legal development of the bank manager of the state's banks, where they were handled. Therefore, the government has shown that it wants to ensure that the government's top or highest government development does not improve social tension. We're supposed to make sure that we don't pay too much, and I think we agree on that view. Of course, it is important to base all decisions on evidence and therefore have been called upon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u34	Mr. President. More recently, news has been received about the link between the Icelandic government and the white-susian industry and especially with the commercial Devil Alexander Moshensky, who has been one of the chief advocates of the dictator Lúkasjenkór and has paid the way for him in the throne of power. Now he's been informed that he's a big deal in business with an Icelandic company, in particular with a fish from Iceland. In addition, he's been appointed U.S. prime minister in the United States of White Russia. Over the past few years, the European Union has undergone economic pressure by the European Union because of the irreverent activities of the government there. Lúkasjenkó is often called the last dictator in Europe and has, in fact, identified himself as such. It has been suggested that the rich devil, Alexander Moshensky, be put on the list of commercial pressure users, but repeatedly his name has been removed from the known list. The representatives of the White Russia government have claimed that Iceland has received its elected guardian, Moshensky, far removed from its controversial arts. Natalia Kaladia, one of the most famous political rivals in White Russia, has claimed that she has many sources that Iceland promoted Moshensky's efforts to avoid such action. Now it's got the highest. The minister of the State claimed that the Ministry did not demand that Moshensky be removed from the requested list, but it is clear that this discussion is persistent, and many feel that it is evidence. So I want to ask the highest. Minister what she's doing to inform the employees of the Icelandic embassy's interference in Brussels and other matters of the procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u35	Mr. President. First, if anyone doubts about what the Icelandic government already has to do with Belarush and the affairs of it, that it is in all our words and that we stand to make up Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, who has been very strict since the election was last, after the procedures that were carried out there. We have engaged in all EU judicial action involving both Russia and Belarus. For many years, we have criticized Belarus severely and have gone beyond the lands around us. Last week, I did so for the United Nations Human Rights Council, where I spoke to the Baltic States and the North States and severely criticized the government in Belarus. We have declared full and firm support for Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya and the Icelandic government have had many meetings and have very regular conversations with her. I also want it to be absolutely clear that neither the Icelandic government nor I are shielding anyone who can address some form of pressure or punishment list because of any manner of conduct that might require them to be at home. If the voter's position changes in the way he is placed on a list of those who are under pressure, his position will be reviewed. He hasn't been on a list. According to the information I have from the State Department, in the evidence I received from that source, he was not removed from a list, but the foreign service certainly obtained information to determine if he would be on the list and on what basis it would be. And yes, the reason why they called for consequences was that it would have been right to know if he would be on a list. [[The president calls.]] The conclusion was that he was not on that list then, has not been a list since, nor has he been in the United States or British people who have their own independent list.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager for the answer as far as I could hear, in fact, a repetition of what has already been made and did not include an answer to my question about the very strong and the people claim to a number of sources that Iceland's arrival is there, and whatever it is to the highest degree. A minister is here to inform us about this situation. Then I'd like to refer to the highest recommendation. Ministers she's been tracking here and for the sake of time, I'm not going to repeat it. But it was about that by the end of 2020, there was some publicity about the fact that such a list would be introduced by the Educator, who, like the highest level, had been called on by the State Ministry of State. Minister mentioned. So I want to ask the highest. Minister on this communication at the end of 2020. Does it have any information that a government worker was using himself in any way to determine whether his name would appear on this list, and I mean whether it is the government's members, the Council of State, Brussels, or other staff from abroad by the Ministry or the government in general? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u37	Mr. President. I don't have any information that it was done, but the communications that took place at the end of 2020 made it possible for the foreign service to inquire and to get information about whether he would be on a requested list or not. Since then, other names have been put on that list, not him. He's not on the American list, he's not on the British list, and there we are in nothing compatible with what we are in European decisions where we follow and have participated in all such measures. According to the information I have and the evidence I have from the Ministry, it was not required that he be taken of a list but that information be obtained and sent by the secretary and State Department to ask if he would be listed in December 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u38	A respectable president. If the brakes on my car broke down and I ended up on a wall, I'd have to send them to a hospital to treat me, but if I hit the wall spiritually, there's something else. Spiritual health is not being done as high below our head and body as we see it over and over again. We hear repeated reports of people in the emergency room saying, "I'm in danger of life, I need help. But the answer is: Come back tomorrow. For some of these individuals, there is no tomorrow. Young people are in a particularly bad position. At that age, mental disorders tend to first develop, they are often studying with a very low income, and thus they do not have access to union funds like employees. It would change everything for this group if there was a psychiatric agreement on subsidies of their services, as authorized by a bill at Reunion that became legal in June 2020, including the with a vote at the top. Secretary of health. I dare say that one of the largest groups who need psychological services to be made available to all, regardless of their economic situation, as other health services, is a low - income student. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: How soon will he improve the emergency department? And how quickly will he enforce the will of the General Assembly and make sure that psychological services are actually available for the people who need it when they need it? I hope the answer isn't, maybe tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u39	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Dagbjartur of Gunnar, the son of Lúðvíksson, for good questions. You're right. A senator points out that these are urgent issues, important issues, and that are drawn to a group of very delicate positions. Now, I want an opportunity to draw out what has been done well, since it is obvious every day that we need to do better, and we need to help with the approach to the services of this delicate group and not have to wait. The number of psychologists with health care has been increasing. We have set up a mental - health team, especially to reach and spread around the country. Then comes the second. A senator entered this money and referred to a bill on the Revolution - a positive matter, all of which were accepted, and was approved here at the council. We got 250 million. K. to make arrangements and to make progress is to have a good conversation about using this money. But when we are dealing with setting priorities, these most vulnerable groups need to be used carefully and try to get together. This is, I'd say, a very good introduction to the big task we're facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for honest and good answers. It is important to be working full-time on this area because the situation is bad, like the highest. Minister said. Experts agree that the state of a waiting list in the mental health system is disturbing. That was the key to our last mental - health assembly. It is priceless for the individual and for us as a community to see to it that the safety network seizes people who need mental - health services. We'll know what'll happen if we don't do anything. We look at the financial cost of spiritual illness, lost employment, disability, and human life. That is why responding is not only necessary; it is also economically practical. It is practical to spit in the palms of the hands and speed up the response and action being carried out. I'm the highest. A minister to do so and to answer how quickly he sees how to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and thank you so much for taking up this matter here. There are many things I could come on, as in my first talk, about what was well done. But that's right. A senator will be involved in our urgent task, which has taken on a more exaggerated form throughout the epidemic, that the list of waitings has increased. So there is much work to be done. I wish I could stand here and just answer that big question, maybe the core of a question. Senator, if we're not just going to do this tomorrow. But this is the situation. We have called up the position on these lists just so that we can take advantage of the funds that are available to negotiate with psychologists and cut down the payoff there, and this will flow to the groups that are in the most urgent need. [[The president calls.]] In that respect, this is a very positive entry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Food administrator to a situation that may arise as a result of plans for the loss of total resources received by the Coastal Navy, or what is commonly called the 5.3% rule. If you look at it, you may conclude that if hunting goes well in the south and west, there will be very little left to catch in the northeast and east, when the fish is the best, and they are the best fish they can catch, in July and August. In fact, it can be said that there is a real danger that nothing can calm down in August. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will he consider what to do about it, and if so? How should we react? What message will the Minister deliver to the miniboat factory in this area?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, this is a persistent subject. We now have an organization with regard to the provision of resources for it as a matter of course. A candidate mentions this, and a part of the fishing system is commonly called 5.3%. Of course, there are some factors that have been thought to improve the balance of farms and employment. These are different measures and measures that certainly come in different ways. It is very important to put the stitches on whether or not the decisions that have been made here, some of which are up to 20 years old, to achieve their goals now. So what we're doing is that we're going to do the sewing on each of the components of this system and see if we're going to achieve the original objective of the disposition. Well, I'm talking about the settlements, I'm talking about line integration, Scaring, and I'm talking about the beach fishing system. I am particularly aware of the importance of coastal fishing clearances in order to maintain international settlements, and this part of the system had to suffer for a reduction in fishing advice at codhouses at this time of the year. We are still looking for markets to turn something into this part of the system. But that may not be the case. But in my office as minister of the sea emissary, I come to look especially at these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u44	Mr. President. I welcome an open mind when it comes to looking for solutions in these matters, for now you hear very regularly from people who are working in this article and the fear is really real. A recession in the system is expected to be the protection factor. Therefore, it may be said that because of the small amount of total volume being taken up in the system discussed here, perhaps this premise, which we are dealing with in the big case, is less likely to be affected. In view of that, I ask the minister again, because I thought it was--yes, it declared an open mind and promised a good thing, but it may not have come exactly what the senator wanted to hear, i.e. Any real solution. But that happens now, as if perhaps most days in this chair, most of a day. For Minister information, if we just take area C: 117 boats. There are enormous numbers of members, as a minister yielded to the previous reply, and this is very important for the small settlements around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u45	A respectable president. How true the question is! Senator. That's where he enters the sector that attracts the regional division and what is really just natural logic, different fishing patterns at the different times of the year, as soon as we have a set of ◯rights for 48 days in law. These are views that may be torn in when there is not enough water in the pot, when we do not have unlimited authority. It's like I hear what you're talking about. A senator points out his question, in effect, when he asks: " Should there be any other argument about this part of the system than about the great system? That discussion may need to take place. But in the law as they are now, we have to look to it for 5.3% of our total advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u46	V.E.G. President. I'd like to pick up a little here at the highest. prime minister development of food markets and food prices in the world We recall a major shock and its impact on food markets and food prices for consumers and farmers in 2008, but then there are clouds of storms again. We have seen global food prices develop in a manner related to direct energy prices. Today, the effects that are closer to the environment are limited, and there is a greater source of stress that the General Assembly has already responded to, but it is clear that this is not to be spread as much stress as it would have been to our second. War is being added to the problems of food production. Ukraine, often known as the world's bread crops or Europe's bread crops, is in a specific way back at this time, the source of a substantial quantity of the global grain that has been spread. effects on food supply for animals in the country. Although we hope that the war ended as soon as possible, their influence will be right this year, for this weekend I published a report assuming that only about 60 to 470 percent of Ukraine's grain production will be this year if the most optimistic picture is taken. It is a massive blow, and then the question is, How is it going to take it to the market in relation to the situation? Many reports on the evaluation of the situation have become available, and most of them indicate that 2022 will not become a major problem. Rather, it is in 223 C.E. that becomes the real problem. So it is not only the question of prices but also whether food is available. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister how he feels that the war in Ukraine can have a price and supply of food in this country and domestic food production. Take care of the highest. A minister plans to take some action for this position, and then to whom? Is working in an orderly assessment of potential effects and response to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u47	Madam President. Food and food security, which is not the same thing, is, of course, part of our national security policy. One operation under my department is to organise the criteria for needed supplies to ensure the survival of a nation in times of emergency, and then I am talking not only about food but also about things like oil and other things, protective equipment and drugs, maintenance parts of the electrical and telecommunication systems, etc. This work is in progress, and our goal is to set specific guidelines on what is needed under each factor so that we can ensure the survival of our lives. It's an old-fashioned debate, like a whisk. A senator knows, but absolutely necessary. These matters may vary, since they hear under different departments, but I think the harmony is a top priority here. When it's time. A senator specifically mentions, i.e. Since food and resources, the secretary - general of the United Nations has specifically spoken of bringing us into a global crisis when it comes to food, especially because of the production of grain and wheat, where Iceland and I are sensitive to the production of only 1% of the grain we consume. It's no secret that I've promoted the fact that we Icelanders are increasingly going to become enough of ourselves when it comes to food production. That was even. Why, last year, the government set about promoting vegetable production. That was even. That's why the Food Fund was set up. We can do much better in this, not just when it comes to meat, since we're in the position to shop for about 90% of the food intake and 99% of dairy products come from domestic production, but when it comes to other consumer products such as vegetables and grains, we can do better. [[The president calls.]] Obviously, though, we will not have that thing brought about in 1923 so that we will be completely realistic in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers, and I strongly encourage her. I want it to be directed to the highest. Prime Minister, if we cannot agree that at this point, it may be of primary importance that we encourage the work of commercial farmers. I notice that it is a message of national leaders of various countries to stand by the local farmers and domestic productions and not to give in. We are, of course, grassland, and our feed raise is mainly hay-like. That's why I think it's important that we think about it in time because we're about to start spring work and we're building the basis for next year and next year's food production and the next few years in weeks and months. So, finally, I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if encouragement and support for farmers at this stage are not important. In fact, in this context, it may also be asked whether farmers simply have the power to do what needs to be done. There's a lot to add to the agricultural sector, and I'd like to give you a few items, such as in the mature Iceland report, where there's a lot of work to be done. And how did we wake up the long - term separation chain so we don't get along well?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u49	Madam President. I just want to say that I have my information, of course, primarily from a food minister who can no doubt give much more information. But as the situation is assessed, from agencies such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there is considerable supply of wheat and corn. On the other hand, if the war persists, we can do just that, like what happened. A senator mentioned, beginning to see an adjustment in 223 C.E. I couldn't agree more. A senator in charge of encouraging farmers. I think we can do a lot of work on it, and I know that food ministers are looking at the opportunities in Icelandic agriculture. I'm not just saying what we can call more traditional articles, i.e. Farming, milk production, egg production, with an excess of what we consume in the country, but just what we produce was the most refreshing of the vegetables we made in the last year, and where there are great opportunities to grow grain. I think there's a really bad opportunity for Iceland for a long time. But this world situation also reminds us of the importance of these details for the security of the nation. I think there's an opportunity, and it's also important to take action. May I speak any longer, Madam President, or have you gotten any better? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u50	It's all right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u51	Madam President. Here we will discuss the decision to conduct a health - care programme for the elderly and although I am not yet considered elderly, middle age, I would be expected when this plan of action is completed, I may immediately apply to the older citizen's partner. Well, then it's a very convenient thing to think about these matters, isn't it? I'd like to talk to you about points that are presented in this operation plan. Then I'm specifically connecting to points that include the mountains. for welfare technology and innovation in services to older people. Last government, which, in fact, is the same government, except the second highest. Health Minister, went to 150 million. K. An investment campaign in which 12 companies received between 3.5 and 15 million in strength to exert themselves vigorously using technology. I greatly missed that this particular health - care investment campaign had no private investment in the elderly or the better care for older ones and the better use of technology. I also missed the fact that in this particular investment campaign, projects were being supported mainly in public institutions, not necessarily by innovation companies that could produce new ideas on how to do this. Similarly, only money was put out. In the modern world, we have learned from bitter experiences that it is not enough just to put money but also to put the support and knowledge of art, for example. other health - care providers get them to come in and help pioneers who are doing these new things. Why am I talking about innovation and the elderly? Isn't something new that only young people do? You see, it's not like that. Technology is not something only young people do. I often mention her as a good example in this regard. She's going to be 79 this year, and first, when Facebook came out, she didn't talk very nice about it, but today she's having more friends on Facebook than I am, and I feel like she's having it more than I do because she uses it to interact with old friends, old students, and relatives around the world. There we see how technology, perhaps a bit exotic, opened up the possibility of keeping in touch with the outside world and thus not becoming lonely. That's exactly what we want and have been talking about here, including in this particular matter, that we want to help people stay at home, we want to help people stay in contact with the outside world, but we also want to be able to use technology to provide services, and even keep track of whether everything is okay. You can do this without putting up cameras in your home. I met, for example. pioneers one and a half to two years ago watching electricity use to see if the elderly day would feel like a normal day. Was the subject lighting the pot in the morning for tea, toasting bread? The use of electricity was monitored because, suddenly, tea wasn't being heated in the morning, it might have been a problem. The only thing they were told was: The electricity use is different. Try to contact her. And you know, it worked. There was someone who thought in a new way - how can we allow people to live longer but still monitor them in a way that is not an attack on their personal protection? - and used the latest technology to monitor these electrical behaviors. There is also more to be done. It's, for example. can be checked to see if people remember to take their medication. Sometimes I would need an appetizer like that. If we can, for example. People with diabetes, whether they're checking regularly, whether they're taking the medicine regularly and all these things, we can simplify the system we need to think about, because once again: Nobody wants to go to a nursing home. People want to live in their home, people want to enjoy life for as long as they can. We can use the technology to do that. How important it is when we find money, as was evidently found in 2020 in this investment effort, that it is well used to produce new ideas and a new view of how we can improve the ministry we render to the elderly! I'm the highest. Minister to watch and work with the highest. A university, industrial, and innovation minister to how to enter a innovation campaign linked to services to the elderly as part of this policy. It's not just that we need to use technology, it's not just talk about the need for a new creation, it's how we cooperate with counseling. How do we do so in the way that we take advantage of the experiences and knowledge we possess in other areas, allowing people to enjoy the years of life longer in their home, in better relationships with family, friends, and relatives, and to make use of our technology? So after a few years, the highest. I'm a retired minister, and I'm starting to play French senior citizens, we can enjoy it and fight about politics and other things, of course, as we're going to do forever, but we're going to use the technology to work on it. We're willing to work with the highest. Minister of innovation in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Ólafsson His speech is Gísliun the son of Ólafs, and I agree with each of them. It's a word at the right time, and maybe they've been used often here in this room but since I'm not always here, it's possible that I've missed it. But all of this is absolutely true. Travel techniques have been erupting and have been doing amazing things for this age group, not just this age group, but many others. We are, of course, sailing into a digital transformation wherever you look, and that is certainly the future. It's all right about the safety, and there are so many things that can be used to make practical use of welfare technology. But above all, and perhaps the most important point is that such technology has greatly reduced the isolation of older citizens. We certainly felt that in the Covid situation when this delicate group was almost trapped for up to two years even. Well, I guess they tried to get through the iPad and say hello to the people. In general, this group is highly intelligent. I know a lot of people were ready to know this digital solution. Finally, though, I would like to point out that there is also a group who has not trusted in this solution, and we must never forget that there is a certain group whose computer does not have a computer, does not have a network connection, and will simply have to pick up the tool and call or visit and visit the person, sit down with him, chat, drink coffee, and let the person enjoy a place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an important talk on isolation, as well as the fact that there is a group out here that has not been able to use technology the way that others do, especially people who cannot afford to buy a smartphone, can't afford to buy a iPad or anything else. I'd like to encourage the highest. A health minister to see what other countries have been doing in this area because I know that there have been projects in other countries that have been supported, even by technology, to provide access to these groups and other borderline groups to the level of technology. I know that, for example. In the United States, a free Internet may be available for people who cannot afford it and such. I also wanted to mention another matter. A senator mentioned the knowledge or the ability to make good use of technology. I remember that a few years ago, I was helping out in a novelty called smartness, where it came from a novelty company called Technologies, which had exactly that, to connect older people and younger people, and to get younger people to come and help and teach the older people how they could use technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you again and again, you're absolutely right. I would like to use my second answer to further sharpen the group that will not enter these solutions, and that is not necessarily a financial example. Of course, at all ages, sometimes well over 100, and those older ones today are as if we were raised to a completely different reality from those who are young and middle - aged. We have to watch out, and I'm just really worried that this group just forgot. He may have his home phone and mailbox, but that's all. It's the group that we must never forget to pick up the tool and call and say, "Can we come over to see you, can we meet? Can I come have a drink with you? But I don't think that it's happened, not necessarily that I had some case, I'm not saying that people have forgotten, but maybe it's been too long since they've had contact with these people. Also, because employees who are caring for this, whether in a state or in a city, of course, have been busy and successful as heroes, especially during this two - year period, and not everything can be taken care of. But this group of older people who only have their home phone and mailboxes, we must never forget. And it doesn't matter that the years go by and we become one major intelligent society, yet there may be people who aren't there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for stressing that yes, there is always some group that doesn't use technology, and we need to look out specifically for that group. We also need to know the size of that group, and we need to work especially at finding solutions. Then I'm not referring to technical solutions. I'm finding solutions to how we can make sure that people aren't left alone. There we can encourage the highest. A minister to do things, but one of the main things we can encourage ourselves to remember to call elderly parents, aged grandparents, old great-grandmothers, even visit them, go to them, play with them, or maybe get a little bite of chocolate, as I often did in the old days as a kid. We must not forget that in all the digital environment in which we live that we still need to be able to raise our phone or visit. There's no place to be ashamed of the highest. Minister will keep us to ourselves. Simply put, we need to remember to do our part in not leaving anyone behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u56	A respectable president. Much has been said about this case that I believe is a reason to rejoice that it has come from the highest level. Healthcare Minister, this concluded that elderly people in Iceland should live in a state of safe and efficient health care where everyone's bioavailability is assured. This seems to me to be a noble and reasonable goal. I just wanted to review the point that on the first page of the Parliament's resolution, which includes a list of some independent goals, says the President: ◯ In order for the future vision to be fulfilled, the following key issues of health policy will be emphasized to 2030's and including those to whom we will discuss are an efficient form of service. Of course, we all know that the Ministry of Health is a progressive part of government funds, and this is an important objective in all connection with the handling of government funds, and perhaps especially in this particular context. Regarding the efficient service purchases, I have only been thinking about whether there is a follow-up and on the part of each with a view to the fact that projects that are under law have been offered. One important factor in effective and practical management is the legal obligation to extend an invitation. Of course, that is why the law demands that we do so. And I wondered about this in the context of the recent decision made by the Advisory Committee on Pronunciation, in particular in the case of No. 8/2021, where the result was to be paid to the surgeon's office. The surgeon's office was legally obliged to provide shopping for software development, to provide these purchases and this project in the European Economic Area. This bowed to a so - called health network and the development of distant solutions for use in the health field. I'd be interested to hear from the highest. A health minister on this point because one is that we set rules for a noble purpose, and the other is how the project is carried out, and the third pole is, of course, monitoring the procedure. I also stopped at the article on page 24 - 18. 4 As it turns out that in the context of the change in focus, the concept of welfare technology came into existence, at any rate. paritaprevir The Gísli Ólafsson was doing the right thing. This is consistent with a number of technical solutions that sustain or promote the effectiveness, participation, and quality of life of the user. I think that in English, by permission of the President, there is a reference to ◯healthtech in this context. I was trying to get some information on this when we were discussing this Senate resolution a few days ago, whether it had been working on some policies or whether there was some government policy on health care, and especially in this context that we are discussing right now. I see that this word is used here, and I think it's a good thing to see it. But as I'm saying, I don't quite know if this work is being done by the Ministry of Health or if there's any such policy already. And this, of course, is important in the context of the report itself, that in view of growth in a group of older people, most people have come to realize that just when technology is available, new solutions, and new resources are needed to ensure satisfying service to the elderly. In this context, I don't get tired of mentioning when we're talking about technology that's where we have to consider access. There is a great deal of justice and good things for people living in the country that governments are making very specific use of this tool. The report also points to the fact that in the Treaty on the renewal of the three federal parties, there were a chapter on older people in which a wide - scale task management will be planned to work on the goals described and to follow up the work. The person should be the heart of the system and have access to integrated services, home care and support services. Of course, it is so with many aspects of this fundamental quality of life that they do not become loved through technology. But I think it's just such an important guide, an important guide in all innovations, to look towards and keep technology, because this trend on changing social dating is obviously a great challenge for society. But it should not be forgotten that in all such challenges, there are also opportunities, and I would like to encourage the highest. Healthcare Ministers and the government all to keep our eyes open and to be a little bit harsh; to activate all the good professionals we have here, wherever it works. I think it's one of our P today's lessons that it all works better when we work together. We saw, for example. A happy and happy cooperation by the Icelandic genetics of the state. There's a little bit of what I've felt was up to that government suspicion of independent experts. Finally, I wanted to talk about one of the factors that go hand in hand with an increase in the number of older ones if we were not able to build a large, powerful system at the same time, of course, the load of care provided by the caregivers, whether between mates or children with parents. I know, for example. that this is a significant court order changing the incidence of disability. The load of care in Iceland is so heavy and so heavy that, unfortunately, it has had this effect. This, I think, must matter in all policies, to focus on the issues and challenges, to focus overall on how the expenses and costs are made, for it surely costs the government a higher amount if the infrastructure is not stronger than we call out health problems by the noncombatant system. But I just wanted to come up to talk about these views, especially because of this proposal to make the impression that I now seem to be good, and I insist. A health minister to the gratifying value of this effective service purchase.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. Hv. A senator pointed to an important health - care item. A health - care provider works for - yeah, now you're getting old - less than 30 years ago, but there's still one problem that the soleists in health care are dealing with here. It is that it is often easier for pioneers to administer their technical solutions, their innovations, to foreign lands, than to have the privilege of testing it or using it on land. We've seen something like that. A remote health - care system that thrives abroad gets into all kinds of problems at home. I remember 30 years ago that the company I was working for gave the solution - not to the hospital, but to a group organization that then gave her to the hospital because the hospital wouldn't accept it because it didn't take advantage of anything else. So I wanted to hear about the other aspects related to health care. A senator would have seen the need to adjust the course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u58	Madam President. Since we're talking about health technology and innovation, I can't let it happen to you to mention our currency, because the innovation companies themselves speak about the currency according to the repeated measurements as the only major obstacle in their operating environment. Of course, it has only the obvious truth to make plans in an environment that you do not know what they look like. That is the reality of the Icelandic crown. Another point I'd like to mention, because it's only been in the discussion, and that's the gender variable of innovation. The fact is that women of innovation are more involved in social activities; education, health technology, etc. When we consider access to funding, there is a dramatic gender variable and a limp, so here I would also want to direct it to the highest. Healthcare Ministers to their innovation funds, e.g. Which the kingdom shall come, I shall say, Karia, how shall they direct their capital into the new creation? There you can have positive incentives to promote, e.g. This innovation by marking the funding just as we do by governments, just as we do by various means, by saying: "We want a certain portion of the budget to go to women in innovation. By doing so, we would be also making great efforts to support innovation in this very area, so I think that could be a strong social benefit. We've been listening to women in innovation recently in public talk about the problem of simply picking up their ideas, their projects, their companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for very important words about innovation and support, agreeing to every word. It is a tragedy that those pioneers who are doing things related to health care have to pick up both speed, i.e. The knowledge, and the funding abroad, because there's not much of it here at home. But I also want to talk to him. A senator on matters mentioned by the senator, which is a bioavailability. Sadly, we have been reminded this week that our ability to obtain health care is important where people live. Just as we told earlier that it was the right of older people to live in their home as much as possible, we must not forget that the same fish that happens here may not be the only place where health services are not on the same fish. I just wanted to hear from what I heard. Her senator shows how we can ensure access to health care, even by the use of technology, anywhere in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. We are accustomed to talking about access to services, health services, and education in relation to the economy. I think we're often more sensitive to that variable than when we talk about a bioavailability independent of the population. I feel that it is very important to maintain these two things at all times that are equally important to me. Part of that, too, in such a larger form that Iceland becomes a competitive country on which young people choose to live, is that we have more to offer than the capital and capital area, that young people choose to live around the country. Otherwise, I think we're losing opportunities. But as far as health care is concerned, I think it is so obvious that using technology that can, in a relatively easy way, balance the game. As I say, this is not possible with all services, but a lot of factors, e.g. With regard to all kinds of services that our communities have to perform to children who may not be able to do well in small space. A small community with several hundred people - is a functioning speech pathologist there, e.g., a working physical therapist, a working psychologist? It's also close to working against people so that telecommunications can be a much better change in that context. But I've only found that the government can take over solutions from independent businesses in this area. I hope there's a change in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u61	President. Because I know why. A senator has sometimes wondered how the government chooses to produce its image in the community, how it markets itself, maybe I would like to point out that in the proposal itself, what is supposed to be approved by the General Assembly resolution twice is spoken of the government's Constitution. It is said that there is an assignment administration under a government contract presented on November 26, as it appears on the first page, and then in a third page, it is referred again to the need for the work of the project under the Government Treaty of these three categories. When I saw this, I wondered, maybe this would be an Iceland record, even a North American scale, trying to nail the government contract into a Senate document that is supposed to apply to 2030, which will apply at least five years after the government has left power. But it wasn't what I was going to do here to my main focus. It was what I was going to do. A candidate mentioned the sex variable in the general health care sector. But then we must also mention the gender variable about suitable staff. It has been suggested that no part of the work assigned to the health - care sector is involved because the Ministry does not consider this to be the scene for it. Why not? What about the fact that there is a resolution of national agreement to improve the interests of women's classes? Although this proposal here may not be the right scene to solve it, could it not have been mentioned the clear will of the Generalis since 2018, just in the past? That's a big difference when it comes to ensuring these targets for the population, which are here on the 3rd, not that union unions can come up with operations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think the law was more important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u62	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for mentioning this synonym that was proposed on the grounds of national restoration to improve the interests of women's classes. It is my sincere faith, and it may be that this belief is supported by evidence, that the best health - care providers would have a profound and positive effect on health status. I mention, for example, because my daughter is now a recent nurse in the University of Iceland, I'm reading news about that class with other glasses than I used to, that it is fact that five years after nurses finish college, which are scheduled for years, they've draught part, or between 20 and 30%, I understand, turned to other jobs. We educate people to this article - my grandfather was a doctor who spoke of nurses as the health system and I thought it was a bit nice - we invest in this education, people who are willing to take this study but some of the reasons why people who have this passion, have this education, leave the job. What would cause that? Do you think it has nothing to do with the ideals and the working conditions? I don't think anyone would dare claim it or try to insist that the pay card and working conditions are not key points there. I'm going to get a better approach to the later national side, but the conclusion is in place and approved. Nothing happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u63	Madam President. There are striking numbers that 20◯30% newly graduated nurses disappear almost immediately. When we read the 3rd stanza, that figure is just about to ensure long - term care for health care. We do this by getting people to stay employed. Of course, these are excellent measures proposed here, that the education and training of staff will be in line with the quality of the service. Yes, but pay needs to be followed and to be in line with that training. Thereafter, health professionals will consult with them for the processing of operations. I'm sorry, Madam President, but it's done just like a hot cat, around the main points that should be ensuring the health-care professions that their health care will be assured. You see, it's not that complicated. All these health - care groups have been shown a systematic disregard for years and decades by keeping their salary low. Therefore, just because governments, financial ministers, and health ministers together, are keeping the ideals of these classes at bay, 203/40% of nurses disappear from the work site shortly after graduation. Although we have agreed here to suggest lifting these classes, we agreed four years ago, and this document directly states that to ensure the care of the health system, the Ministry does not consider it to be a platform to talk about that fundamentally. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u64	Madam President. Here, there may be ideologies regarding health policy and then women's political issues. Not only have we been very careful here in this council hall to ask the government minister for what the work means. I had a conversation with the highest. The prime minister and the answers were of a nature that I could not mean that there was much going on at that job. The proposal was to improve the quality of women's classes, certainly within the medical system, while others also include, teachers, and that this should be done in the analysis of the salary rates of these large groups, and to compare them with other classes of comparable education and responsibilities. Then it would be done on the basis of national condition, and the national condition means that the terms of these classes would be corrected without the traditional talk of dolphins running. They would be at peace with each other for making a special improvement in these classes. By doing so, we would be investing in wood. It may at times be forgotten about what is strong inside. Are not strong infrastructures the people who work in these articles? They need to be seen. But now that we're reentering a collective agreement, unfortunately, the situation is unchanged in this respect. But I think there's an extremely important tool here to strengthen the status of the Land Hospital, but also the national health care and the whole health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u65	Madam President. I may first need to emphasize how important it is to pursue health care toward the elderly is clear and ambitious because it is both a group that requires great and good service but also because it grows rapidly in the years ahead and then it is important that it is now built up to a service that can accept the challenges of the group's growing very rapidly. I have to admit, Madam President, that when I wrote this policy, I still found it a little difficult to understand exactly what this matter is about because it is not a suggestion that the General will accept health care policies to the elderly, but it is a suggestion that we agree that there will be a policy developed in the implementation of a health care programme with the elderly. Then, Madam President, you might ask yourself, " Is the Ministry too short on this matter to return it to the council? ' Are we here merely thinking that something that will ever be headed? Then you read the specter itself, which is unusually long, but it sometimes happens by larger policies, these are almost three pages of goals, seven major subjects of what they call, so that the vision will become reality. If we look in the back, we'll have another question: What will they do? Because Congress generally ends something where the Council is telling the government to do something. The General concludes that the government will do something. It's not quite clear, but what we have to agree on is that this will be an issue of shape for the Ministry's policy in making plans for five-year-old measures in agreement with key stakeholders. This must come my way, thinking, " Wouldn't it be the plan that should come to the council? Would it not be the documents that we should have with some more credulous ideas that had been properly consulted rather than some plan for the implementation of an action plan? I just hope the committee works out of these weird things. It's, for example. It is stated here that evaluation of the financial effects of the Parliament's arrangement will be carried out when a plan of action is implemented for the shape and treatment of matters. It's called a pre-filled man. It's called that the Ministry has so little idea of what work is going to be asked that they want them to say in the suggestion text: "Listen here, we'll just check it out when some other people are working on it, so let's see what it's cost. I don't remember ever seeing one like that before. I fully understand that the economic impact and scope may be kept hidden at this point, but in that case, we're going to take a shaped 5-year strategy back to the council as an arrangement of Congress. Then she'd get a little more weight, too. By then the council would have crossed over, and it could be followed with increasing weight. There's something else missing in the performance phase. That's my time frame. When should the five - year - old approach the light? I remember, for example. In a similar manner to a document adopted here at the council of the last or last winter on a educational program until 2030, which was actually a rather thin suggestion and so on the stylist, which made clear that the five-year strategy to be developed on the basis of that agreed policy, because that document was given a hot policy, should be prepared within six months of the approval of the General Assembly proposal. Such a framework must have been particularly clear in times where the government is repeatedly showing that it considers a judicial arrangement that does not necessarily have to be accepted, let alone with time limits, not even when it comes to proposals from the government itself, regardless of the suggestions made by the government. I also wondered, " Did these alarm alarms start to ring at my reading of the proposal when I saw these dramatic references in the Commission Declaration of Cooperation? ' In two places in these three pages of the proposal, it says that a contract of government should be carried out. I never remember a petition asked by the General to adopt a paraphrase that says: "The work here is in accordance with the Constitution of three of the eight parties. This is often presented frequently in the reports, and it is usually first to justify the contributions by referring to a written government contract, which is quite natural, but to expect that a part of Congress treatment is to be placed in the proposed form of the Generals' will that the Constitution of three categories is somehow the Alpha and Omega's work for which the year 2030 is due. I hope that there will be other categories of government in the past and that they will be able to address the issues of these matters and be more ambitious. Then I will find out what is really the main point, or one of the main points. There's been a series of factors in this proposal in our discussions today and before the weekend, but I would especially like to talk about the third item of the proposal with the people in the foreground. If I understand correctly, it's the staff because it looks like the elderly people are usually calling either users or elderly persons in the motion. In order to ensure long-term management of health care providers, two tasks are proposed to ensure that staff education and training are in line with quality requirements and that they will agree with health-groups on processing procedures. This is also shown in the text that tells you how to complete these programmes. It is said that they should agree with key stakeholders, such as when they are shaped. In reality, then, the second part of this bickering remains to ensure design by ensuring that the staff is properly educated, but completely designed by the key elements that combine health politics, financial politics, and women's politics, which are the salary of these classes. Because the classes that work in the health system, the classes that provide older people with the service to which they are to improve, all the women who are paid under a low salary, usually by government, state, or rural society that carry out this service. If the people were really in the foreground, this would be spoken of in this program because we did not cope with the marvelous increase in the numbers of elderly people with skilled staff, by continuing to escape from health groups, but by bringing up a full - time health system in the way that people receive a good salary for working in it, not just by getting enough of the people there, but by getting a decent salary that they don't get out of work because of a poor host. [[The president calls.]] But no, the Ministry of Health did not consider this party to be an arrangement for reviewing the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where then, Madam President? [[The president calls.]] Where, then?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u66	A respectable president. Yes, it is a policy, and words certainly come first. Somewhere we need to get started. Good policy is truly gold, but without a good plan, a strategy, then good policy is just ruined and useless. I would like to mention a few points that could then become the most important part of the operation plan, starting with the fact that it is extremely important that the State be a nursing minister to younger people who need to care 24 hours a day. Today, some 140 people under 67 are in nursing homes but need special housing and resources. Meanwhile, a group of people over 67 years of age wait for these places, even in a hospital. There are also special groups who need nursing services, such as those with psychiatric disorders, drug addictions, and others with problems of various kinds. The nation is getting old, and this has been known for a long time. The question is, Where is your concern? Where's your custody? Where's your complete thought? Why are we in this position? This group, such as the children stuck in the lists, that other vulnerable groups have simply not been the priority for this government. What about those who desire to stay at home as long as possible? To make this possible, the nursing home needs to be there, and it again has a big problem. Every job is desperately lacking by nurses. It's been a total failure to attract nurses to work and that's all it's been missing. There aren't enough of them. It may be added that in order to improve the quality of home service, it is important to increase flow into the elderly's service chain. There are a wide range of services to be offered, cooperation across institutions, medical care, and home visits. The process of services must be cut down and further expanded to provide increased home treatments by means of a multidisciplinary approach as well as by the elderly emergency services. Then I'd like to move on to what awaits us all. What would that be? It's death. They may want to have the opportunity to die at home. It is estimated that about 75% of all those approaching the end of life require an euthanasia. The growing numbers of elderly patients and the growing number of chronically ill indicate that much more is going to require an euthanasia. Therefore, it is important to set up a local charity team so that older ones and long - suffering individuals can expand their ministry with the goal that more people can stay at home and die at home. This needs to be done so that the elderly can be assured of safe home euthanasia and life-satisfaction therapy. It takes e.g. fund for day care by nurses, home-care care nurse with knowledge and experience in euthanasia, the medical care of an euthanasia, and the emergency room in a nursing home where clients of home care are the priority. This would be short-term and day-to-day service for e.g. smuting persons from home who needed admission for changes in their condition, social conditions, rapid panic, imminent death. At the same time, there could be intervention and prevention of the obvious conditions, e.g. by intravenous fluids and administrations, blood transfusions, administration of any medicines, or alternative therapy or monitoring. These measures are in desperate need. It would have to be independent of whether the individual had an approved health and performance status assessment of the nursing room or an approved hospitalisation application. This space would need to be expanded according to rest space and not preassigned as a standard rest space. In addition, one of the basic tasks in aging services is that funding will be made up of an integrated national health record, a national access control that supports teamwork, for example, to improve the integration, trust and security, to reduce waste and dinums, is essential for integration at different levels of services; the national health record. But back to life. After these years, it is so important to have variety. We are different, and we remember when the time comes and the age moves on, too, different skills, different strengths, different circumstances, and different circumstances. We can't put all this group under one hat. There are a number of people who want to be in the service core, where there are all services, circumstances, green areas, especially attention to lighting, the bus stop center especially bright and attractive, and so on, that people can walk out and get what they need. We have such an example, often speaking of it on Plain Road. This is the way it could be scattered throughout the city, in the suburbs, and only wherever it could be placed but at the same time to mix. Finally, I may just want to try to get together, though, with the main problem, because it's all about going into surgery to increase the number of health care professionals and arrange for more university students to study in the wards and to have room in the clinics to study with others. If we need these people, nurses, and people with skills, knowledge, and experience to handle these matters, we're just in trouble everywhere. No matter what dream we have in this relationship. Here I am talking about an area that must appeal to senior citizens and encourage curfews and leisure activities. You can imagine, in a dream vision probably, or it may not seem quite obvious, not at all, unless those words on paper become reality. But in view of the last few years, not everyone with the same government may be optimistic. Maybe we just have to keep dreaming and it's bad. It is bad for those who wait and cannot go to their homes or have no home to go to, since there are no people there to help. Here's a policy, and I agree with what's happened to someone else. Councilmen who mentioned that this may be somewhat out of the question. I expect the highest. A minister will follow up and go through what has been discussed and answered, perhaps helping us to gain more faith and confidence in this document. It's all too often that you look at beautiful and cool and highball policies here and there and everywhere, and the government is particularly good at making them, cool policies, absolutely beautiful in one. But then what? Will any of the things I've been reading, which I know are desperate and desperate, become reality for the next four years? Or are we standing here again after 10 to 15 years and talking about the same thing? A big question is asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u67	A respectable president. Yeah, a big question is asked. Why are we doing this? This refers to action that will be carried out under the Mosaic Law of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. I thought about it in the context of that question. A senator was discussing before, if this should happen, for I cannot quite figure out where this proposal will fit into government financial policy. The reality is that this does not happen without being financed, and there are repeated instances where things have run out of financial resources. I just wanted to put it in a little context. This is another suggestion from the government, or what to say, about a future view that has to do with improving the system. We've heard a lot from the government that the social security system should be improved, e.g. was refused to stop the hatching between the public market in pay and those in disability and rehabilitation and pension because they were supposed to improve the social security system. But these are huge pieces in our welfare services, this costs quite a lot, but the government was only a few weeks ago accepting a management strategy that allows for a permanent angle in the state's budget and a huge payment. This is not because expenses cannot be handled in our system. That's because we've been conducting a targeted fiscal policy over the past decade that makes us incredibly difficult. The fact is that by 2026, at the end of the elected period of this government, the income of the state's budget will be the lowest in this century as a proportion of GDP. It is a highly political policy that is being practiced here on the basis, a trend that has overlooked very many and is rarely spoken of. It then offers suggestions like this, which is spoken on the surface of things that have proved and will prove to be in harmony with this political policy, very difficult to finance because public foundations have been weakened. Then the next question is how such a plan will be made to the rural community, since many of them are already paying tens of millions of dollars of dollars of service to the elderly, even though that service is not legal. The Kingdom, such as with so many other lawsuits, has cleansed its table and is now serving, legally, or not, with increasing weight on rural areas. Besides, the government is often pointing to people in a rural government as if they simply did not know how to run their battles. I've been visiting people all over the country these past few weeks. A lot of people hear the same thing. There are concerns about local homes and nursing homes, the services being eliminated because they are expensive. This is a suggestion to revise funding systems for living and long - term care in nursing homes. Okay, that sounds great. By Christmastime, extras were added to this service, but we know that there are still many more billions of people missing. And where are they to come from? There is no room for the current government financial policy, so I just wondered how this operation program will appear in the government's financial program in a few weeks. I remind you of the words of a financial body in this context that appeared along the financial agenda, that there is no concordance between the government covenant and the government's financial policy, and this is just another case that illustrates it. There are so many things to consider in this proposal for a resolution of a policy developing in a health - care programme with the elderly until the year 2030, which is obviously meant to increase expenses, with permission of the president: ▪ There will be special support and resources available to caregivers who care for their needs. Again, with president's permission: Regardless of their location, people who are hungry have access to well - equipped services. [...] The financing system for living and long term care in nursing homes will be reviewed. [...] All nursing homes will be monitored regularly in Iceland It speaks of the need to increase the number of professionals in the nursing staff. Something's gonna cost you now, respectable President. Furthermore, I'm down in the program, with President's permission: It will continue to build up and increase cross-cutting ears at the first and second degree of service. Something's gonna cost you now. It says at the end, at the end, that assessment of these financial impacts is carried out when the plan of action is completed, some time later. I'd just like to know when this is supposed to happen. Is that after this election period is over? Will this not be realized within the next three years? Because there's no room for this in government economic policy, that's just the way it is. That's 8 billion bucks. This is now just the value of what is missing in a community group of disabled people. The report describes this as a five - year plan. The main weight may come in three years after the completion of this government partnership. They might get funding in this, if we get a new government that's ready to raise the state budget and understand how much it costs to run a welfare system. As a matter of fact, I suspected, as when I read the first budget of this government, that it was not a great deal to make big promises in a covenant, but then there are major strategys that have to do with a change of direction. But there's just no evidence to suggest that there's a budget problem. I'd like to go back to that 8 blessed billion, which is the paybed for the government every year. Let's just put it into a little bit of a relationship with what's going on in the economy today. The previous year's secondary protection rate was more than 1%, i.e. The budget predicted that she would be 3.2%, and she was 4.4%. Just this increase, of course, that inflation was 1% higher than the government was hoping for, resulted in an increase in the cost of state funds of 8.6 billion dollars, 1% in extra prices. Already we have reached the point where inflation has gone far beyond what was expected. We were accepting funding for Christmas, where the extra 9 billion were put to make up for the inflation last year. What's the situation now? We just saw funding come into the council where no financial contributions are expected. It's just some technical cash. What has happened since the 2022 budget was passed? I'm afraid the forecasts of inflation have given way. The late bank predicted that in February inflation would be 5.3% per year, that was in February. That forecast is indistinguishable by the development of the last few weeks. But it's this 5.3% inflation, 2% higher than the government this year. Only those 2% are at least 10 billion more on the cost of inflation. This financial policy is completely broken, and there is no basis for any expenses, let alone the system's improvements. I wondered where this operation plan fits into all of this. I also wondered how it really is in this government community, whether there are anyone other than the highest. Secretary of finance who's aware of what politics is being practiced here. 'Cause here's been a bunch of political under-finances to become a decade. The wealth of state, I repeat, I do not tire of repeating this, which the proportion of land production has not been reduced, at the end of this election period, in this century. There seems to be one policy at the Ministry of Economics at the highest level. The secretary of finance and the other two members of the board feel that they are in the welfare of politics, but there is, unfortunately, no basis for welfare matters. The news is that there is no basis for this financial policy on welfare. There's no basis for a plan like this. I don't really know what's worse, to the top. Ministers of advance and left green people are aware of this and are acting as if nothing is wrong or not aware of what is going on in the Ministry of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It points out that beautiful words can be made and can be praised, spoken beautifully, and said that they are going to solve all the world's problems, but they need to be developed and financed. Maybe it is with these issues, just like the climate, that we're just supposed to wait and see if we can't solve this later or that things just happen in groups of people forever trying to figure out a solution. But I'd like to ask, because I know why. A senator knows a little more about financial matters than I do: How are we to finance this kind of money? How can we as a community finance proper service to the elderly? What would that be? A senator would do if she were the highest. Secretary of finance. I'd like to negotiate with the highest power. Health Minister now to finance these procedures? Where do we have the opportunity to find funds to secure this growing group of older people's future?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. That would be, for example. you can look back in time and see what you have done for the past ten years with the income of a trust fund. It was attacked by very general tax reductions, which were put in place that they were only for the low income of individuals, but it went a long way behind but only back then. It's been taken at 2,0830 billion. at least Just out of the tax system. General tax reform. Besides, there have been many well - paying expenses, but there are flat fees that might have been paid by others in other parts of the system. Let's look at the fishing rate, five billion a year. There has been an assessment that the resource can lie in the range of 30How70 billion k. every year. Let's watch property taxes. It is said that the future will be difficult for us because the age of work is reducing proportionately. And what does the government say in its financial policy, which I think many government leaders have not necessarily noticed themselves? That the future could include increasing the value of consumption taxes, which are no more than an inequities tool, putting flat taxes on people in increasing numbers instead of talking about property taxes, capital taxes, instead of bringing Congress into this room, as it were to form a government contract, to seal certain streets in the tax system, so that you can pay interest over societies instead of putting it as pay. ASI speaks of a cost that has been made by just shutting down certain streets in the system so that it doesn't even have to change the law. There are so many things you can do. People act as if they're not practicing some underlying political bitch in this government, but there's only been a lot of action that makes it possible that such a strategy as this in the council will never be accomplished. It's just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for good answers. Yes, especially those who have more than our income must set priorities. But I wanted to discuss income with myself that one of the major problems that practically all the medical system is related to design. This may be especially true of nurses and others who simply do not receive a decent salary in relation to their efforts. In part, it is natural funding; it requires funding to get people to do those jobs and not to flee to other sectors. But fixing pay in one sector can have a chain effect on the rest of the community. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator what would be possible there, except to appoint a group and set up a committee. What can we do to improve the quality of health care professionals and make it possible for us to avoid seeing that constant flight from this article? Now you know it has, for example. Do a great deal of flight to foreign lands, too, where people can work without being on an endless schedule to obtain a decent salary. Rather, they can get a regular shift and thus earn a decent salary. [[The president calls.]] Why can't we do this here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is not just the case with nurses, it's just common health groups, women's classes, jobs that were previously unsalaried, so it was easy to keep your salary low. It's a problem and it can be discussed for a long time, but I'd like to mention a single koncret. We are faced with a huge crisis in health care today because we are constantly working up a huge gap in investments, both in human resources and in facilities, but also just a real investment to form in the Hospital Hospitals and in many other areas in hospital service and in international service after collapse. Instead of going into real trouble, some small patches are constantly being used. The fact is, it doesn't matter how much money you're on; if you feel down at work and you're under a lot of stress and you don't have a good situation, it'll never get better. Second, I am a great spokesman for an effort to reduce people's general stress by shortening shift hours and for example. a way to reduce salaries if stress and work hours are reduced instead of total gains. The problem is, they started with a better shift work period for health professionals at the Land Hospital, but what was done? It wasn't even financed. What was being done was a cash to be included in the Land Hospital to meet the increase in service, population growth, elderly service weight, nursing weight - over 1.5 billion who were going to improve the situation of the Land Hospital - and it was put in a better watch period. It's under attack on projects that don't even make money. The first thing you could do would be to put this 1.7 billion dollars. into the land hospital where they belong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u72	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent insight into the capital of all of this, which he has an enormously clear perception of. This is exactly what I'm interested in when I read this synonym because we're not even talking about a plan of action in the elderly. Rather, we're talking about developing a policy in leading a strategy. It's interesting to me, especially because in all the loud demands that have been in recent years on action in this category, there's always talk about the need to have a full analysis, there's a need to reevaluate the system as it does. I'm going to try to avoid the fortunes, but this council proposal will appear to me, especially in the light of what the Senator was saying, as a foam. There's nothing in the back. This reminds us of some objective declarations that were popular in companies a few years ago, where five values and other items were chosen. This is particularly evident in the fact that the headlines are not understandable unless you continue to read them, but they sound lofty, but there is in some way nothing behind them. But that's not what I want to ask you. A senator about. I am interested in the promise of the council from the last term to finance psychological services. It went even beyond having some formative policy on someone's side. There was only a law in which certain services were meant to be guaranteed. And there's not even money in there. We couldn't get money to pay for it. It's clear that there's no money. It is not being suggested that this may become a reality, but it is unclear who should be involved in this synopsis. I wanted to ask you what. The senator who it feels is more likely that this will ever happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I don't think there's a chance that this will happen according to the current government financial policy. There's a lot of business to be done at the Ministry of finance to get it through. What's really been the most serious part of this government business is that people don't come to the door the way they are dressed. It is not said to voters that there is a certain type of politics, right politics, which are being reduced the level of government, reduces the ability of a community to move forward, reduces the ability to finance a certain welfare service. Instead, this is being done in the shelter of the night, not to mention it, and a number of high goals are being set out in vague, controlled, and government covenants. This is very serious because people do not then realize what kind of government they are choosing over them. It's not funding for this suggestion, this operation plan, unless there's a lot of surgery going to be done elsewhere. We have not been given any answers to that question. You can't finance all of this. It is impossible to run a welfare community and reduce your social security. That's not how it works. You can't have both. What I've felt so serious about this is that it's been sold to an assortmentist who's supposed to be in the spirit of a Norwegian welfare community. Why a low tax policy? It can only be seen at the end of this election period that it's not money for this. This is very serious. The only way to finance such an operation plan that just makes clear that there are billions of dollars of extra costs being attacked is to cut down somewhere else. There's nowhere to tell where it's going to be. But we get what? A senator, perhaps seeing it in a financial program that arrives in ten days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, though there is no point in worrying about this situation, and I was worried about it before. A senator began to discuss things that we may not see at the beginning of this council that may result in a certain cost of coming in there automatically, inflation, and other things that actually eat up the scope available to finance such things. But, hey. One senator noted that there were about 8 billion allows for an unsurpassed amount of expenses or such. Now we're just talking about one group, one point. We are talking about a large group of subjects, such as, he may not be a small one, yet he is one of many that needs attention. When we look at things as I mentioned before, the psychological services that were so grossly valued by billions, something like that, and it only got money for a fraction of it - when they've eaten up the available space and even more than what the senator was talking about, I wonder, " Where is it most likely to come from? ' What is it that governments do by making such a plan? You may be aware that the purpose is to create some aspect of this government other than reality, but if you should let them enjoy the doubt, I wonder where it is most likely that money can come from.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u75	A respectable president. I'm really worried about this because it's not just about the cost we already have in the system, and it's also about the total failure of the government in what we're facing right now. There's nothing to be done about the economy today. And what does that mean? Yeah, we're just for the sake of sailing into a grocer's head. The cost of pay, which is a very large factor of government expenses, a third, can easily be the result of a pay cut. Only with the fact that nothing is done now, people must attend this right on other grounds instead of allowing the State to act in advance of financing, control of financial resources, be prepared to step in and do something. A worse situation exists. The only way to get this operation plan going through is to have a cutout somewhere else in the system. It's just a matter of time. There should not be any improvement in the intake side. In fact, it is in financial policy to seek ways to reduce taxes more. It may be a bit popular, but in a welfare community, we will try to give people equal opportunities, always access to health and education and so forth, it just takes to do so. It was a decision we made here as a community in 1960 to build up our welfare systems, and it costs, but it gets back to more efficient ones. We saw women of whole generations entering the labour market, increasing the private sector's access to labor, production, and whatever. These pillars are being undermined now. The only way, according to current government financial policy, to finance such a large package, is to operate in other parts of the system, and they have not trusted to answer for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u76	A respectable president. When you look at this document, it starts with the President's permission: ▪ The Council concludes that elderly people in Iceland live in a safe and efficient health service where everyone's bioavailability is guaranteed. This is a lofty goal to look to, but you ask: In Iceland 2022, why does not everyone have access to health care? You wonder: " What have people been doing all this time, that people have to contend with failing health care? Something will be necessary to ensure that everyone's access to health care, not just the elderly, but the whole public in Iceland. Not everyone sits at the same table as we don't have health care all over the country. This is shown in Article 5 of the report: The proposal alone is not expected to result in an increase in costs but it is assumed that some measures in the programme may result in a temporary increase in cost. I can't get this to work. How can we have such a lofty goal to secure everyone's bioavailability at the same time and at no cost? I can't make it, but these are beautiful words on a paper we see here. There are many exciting things to look forward to, and if we see these things become reality, that is, of course, the good. But we see, just last day, things pulled off the board that was supposed to result in the integration of services. It says in this bill that services will be personalized and integrated to older people. Today, we see that the board has been unplugged on integrating services for the benefit of children in which the service to children was to be integrated. At the same time, on the same day, we are having an integrated ministry with the elderly. You wonder: " When is it said truth, and when is it not? ' Or is it just an endless, beautiful word on paper, one that cannot be listened to? Unfortunately, it has often been that way. That even says it. to set the number of nurses in each area. At least I ask, "What criteria should be used? " How big should these areas be? Is e.g. acceptable for the older people of Vicodin in Micirdal to visit a nursing home in Selephoss? Doesn't it matter what definition of an area is, or is it just intended for health care? There are so many things I find strange in this. There's been talk about how much and often Iceland will just go bankrupt if we have a nursing home to take care of our old people. But I ask, can't we save some of the money too? Not that we are going to nurse everyone at home, we too, are we not at the same time getting people out of the most expensive resources, the land hospital, into nursing homes, thus lowering the expenses of those who are actually not supposed to be in a land hospital but who truly have a routine? We would save a lot of money if men had used the resources that were made up of the elderly, and they were to take care of this class and build resources for older people, but they were then taken only into the state fund and used in other things. So, yes, things are exciting, and I would really like to see them come true, but unfortunately, my experience tells me quite other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I cut by one as a dog. The senator talked about, i.e. live where you want to live. Now I know what to do. A senator comes from the Smokejanes, and I wanted to hear what he was doing. A member of the United States has heard from older people: Have you had a lot of pressure to get all the services in Reykjavík or to offer sufficient service to Smokejanes for people who want to live near a family, near home, and so on? And if not, what must be done? What does that count? A senator has to work to remedy this situation, and how can societies and the State cooperate better to tackle their problems? Where it is. A senator also has experience with the local government field would be pleased to hear, if ever. Secretary of health and the highest. Secretary of finance would be in the same category, how would it be? In cooperation with these two parties, a senator tackles this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I come from an area that has lived for many years that they simply need health care, not just for older people, but for all. We know of thousands of Southnes who have to look for service into the capital area because the service is just not there. We have only one health care facility, and there are 30,000 people in our area, an average of about 11,000 people on every health care unit. There's just a really big lack of service. Besides the fact that we have been waiting a long time to build a new nursing home. There was a signed contract in February 2019, I think, about the structure of that family. It's not on the move. For some reason, the government agencies seem to be able to hold the items hostage and initiate them at their convenience. We have not been able to use ourselves to get this thing started, despite the fact that our rural communities contribute to nursing homes in the first place. What we always need to consider is integrated service and who render the ministry. There are many gray areas between state and rural society in the community and the home nursing staff that need to be viewed and worked on so that people are not landing between ships and docks when it comes to rendering them services. Sadly, all too often in relations between government and rural society are arguing about who is going to do what.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to go a little deeper into the last point of my life. A senator mentioned that we seem to be in so many ways to argue about some year after year and not just in these matters, the care of the elderly, we took long talks here a few weeks ago on transportation and in our discussion of the city line. Things just seem like there's no end of the question, and I wonder, " How do we change this behavior between state and rural society in this case and just general? ' Instead of always throwing the hot potato between us and never reaching a conclusion, how do we find ways to look on the road together? What can we do as political people, the highest? Ministers? What can we do to ensure that the people who need this service that we are arguing about will benefit from it rather than forever using something as a political debater between us?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. The government's budget is a law, but it's not. We often see it in the agreement that the State refuses. We can only name the NPA deal. It is a common job of the state and rural society to negotiate such agreements, but the State, just because it wasn't in the budget, refused, and one community was judged to do it. This is just a strange interaction when it needs to be this way because there's laws here and boast that they are strengthening services, in this case with disabled people, or children, or anyone else, and then they don't follow the money, as it has been suggested. A psychological bill has been approved, but it's just not accepted. It's natural to act in this way completely preemptive. It's also about priorities. This involves setting priorities, as we have considered, in the interest of our welfare. Will we stand with our people and care for the needs of the inhabitants, each one having, and the service that each one needs? I'm not sure we're doing it in any case. Also, consider: Is it true that some individual groups of languages are at the hands of both a community and a state? Isn't it true that it's either with a state or with a community? I don't know. But this eternal basket of who is to do what is unacceptable only for those who are waiting for public service and who are under obligation to perform it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u81	A respectable president. I'm glad we're working on a strategy for the implementation of a health - care programme with the elderly. Nevertheless, I pause at the expression "Argument of Action Programme" which sounds a little like a supposed committee to appoint a team of workers to do the assessment and return it to the Committee to make a suggestion. But even though I didn't have it all, it's a pleasure to be especially focused on the health care of the elderly because, as we all know, she's not an acceptable person. Last Friday, I met with a group member in the South, and it was found that the situation has deteriorated constantly in recent years. By the premise that I wrote right numbers, which I now believe, were 48 on a waiting list for a nursing home in 2017 in the South, but now in 2022 there are 65. There's an increase of 35%. A new nursing home should be opened to Selephoss before long and is well available. But the number of residents, including the number of them, is reduced. because housing is not acceptable. It is good to make housing acceptable, yet the conclusion seems that the number of nurses is increasing at the expense of residents, so that, as a whole, there is a decrease. In addition, only 20 of the areas that become in the new nursing home are before the South, with most of the space for the capital area. The problem is big in the capital area, and I have to take it, but I want to mention two things in this context. First, there is an individual wherever he lives, so the distribution of these spaces should be based on need, not on the need to lighten the waitings in one area above another. Second, it seems to be a failure to move. There is to solve problems in one area by moving people to other rural areas where the person may not have any contact, as well as that of moving to another country, making it less possible for them to visit, so relationships with family and friends are expected to decrease more than others. Perhaps this is a better solution than none, but it is not good, nor does it show that there are those who find themselves in that position in their later years. One of the things that are discussed is that of improving the quality of home service. That is true, for many who want to, and who choose to stay as long as possible at home. But it must always be the choice of the people themselves. I fear a little of such solutions will come to an inexpensive and pleasant solution, and all that is really available, even though people would prefer and need to go to a nursing home. It takes a nursing home, and a complete disgrace that has not long since been built and built, even though only to meet the need in a land hospital where there are so many elderly ones who are often in an unacceptable situation because there is no room for them in their boarding home, to quote the Gospels. There's no room for us when we get old and sick. That is the sad truth. We have to get all these people into adequate resources, especially themselves, and even more so because they are the most expensive resources in the country, and they are supposed to be for sick people of all ages who need medical care now when they need it. This has sometimes been called a reperfusion problem, one of the worst words in the world because no one wants to be the one or the one that causes problems, since these elderly people are not the problem. On the contrary, it's the people who built our country and now deserve the best possible care. In one of the richest lands in the world, they are not getting it, and it is a disgrace to us. The third chapter of the proposal discusses staff, and it says, by permission of the president: The people in foreground. To ensure long-term healthcare providers and safe and good work environments, the group's policy for 2030 will be as follows: a. Education and training of the elderly will be in line with the quality of the service required. b. The agreement with health-groups on the processing of operations will be ensured. They need to be built. There is no doubt about that. But it also requires that we. As hard as it has been to get something built, this is the challenge of human nursing homes and hospitals. If the government is serious about these matters, they have to raise the pay of nurses, medical staff, hospital staff. If there was the law of the market on supply and demand, nurses, hospital staff, and other health workers would have the highest salary in Iceland, for the demand for them is much higher than by bankers and heads of state who are paid the highest wage by the government. This is often spent by being competitive even when there is no competition for these jobs. The government seems to have an understanding of the market laws in general, but when it comes to the demand, there is no understanding. The healthcare professional's salary must be competitive. It is only hope that people will give up. All the extra shifts and the rear shifts are down there, and they eventually give up. In addition, all these overtime payments must be more expensive for government funds than natural pressures and shifts. Yes, I'm celebrating this discussion, but I can do better if it's done. We need a comprehensive policy that ensures those of this country and needs to maintain the best possible care. To do so requires that we build and also build men. We must attract HCPs to function, for without them, there is neither bird nor fish. Then it's just nothing. We need to start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u82	Madam President. Building isn't enough, so it needs men too. It's exactly the key that I feel is totally unmoved by this proposal to shape a policy in the implementation of the strategy. I'd like to think about it a little because of it. A senator is an representative of a party that has established the affairs of small income, poor people's affairs on the program; there will be an increase in the number of elderly in the coming decades, and the people who will be included in that group in the year 2040 - I would, for example. A large proportion of today's medical staff should be included in this group. We know that the sex - related differences that accompany people through age - old working conditions have a sexual difference in pension rights when they are older so that by keeping the health - keeping classes under way, poor elderly people in the future are being rewarded. This is something that the writer of the proposal doesn't think is a scene to cross into this plate, but this is one of the things we can solve, and then we're hitting two birds in one blow. First of all, we are actually putting the people on the front line so that we can provide care for health care today, but we are also reducing the negative health consequences of poor elderly people in the future. I just want to think about how ridiculous it is that these points are not addressed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u83	Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for this answer and must say that I agree completely with everything he says. I now belong to a class of teachers, I was a teacher, a class that is getting older, and that is a great problem ahead. You can expect the same thing from nurses, I think you're right. It's also another; there's a number of restrictions in the University of Iceland that is not in harmony with the lack of the profession. But from then on, it is this flight from the class that is so serious. People just give up. You can't take responsibility for the care of people, for the care of the elderly to this class, and say: "You should just take this. It doesn't make sense. People must be drawn to work, and this is done by - yes, they need to be paid up. It needs to be good equipment that people have. It is true that what was said, these are low - paying women's classes, and this affects pension rights. And constantly worrying about money and money has an impact on health, so it's a vicious cycle and it may lead to poverty for the future. Care is needed today, but it also needs to be ensured for a long time. We must bring in young people who, for their lives, are seeking to do those work that is so necessary for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u84	Madam President. In the introduction to the report of this proposal, the obvious mathematics in the circumstances ahead will increase from 13% to almost 20%, the number available to the service will be reduced simply because there will be fewer individuals at the age of the job market. Hence, it is incredibly short - lived to intend to eat within the smaller group of people who can care for health care by just conducting a salary in a way that only goes away in other jobs soon after graduation. Then there is an exaggeration of the nation's aging influence on this class, so that the youngest nurses will always be fewer and fewer. How can you talk about securing a carpentry and saying nothing more than education and training staff in such a program? The education and training of staff are, of course, important to protect the quality of the ministry, as is said here, but education and training also follow, only in normal environments, higher salary, and better circumstances. There's nothing to deal with this. This was pointed to in countless early reviews and will surely be done in the Commission, but the Ministry did not consider it a reason to address this problem, despite four years ago's approval of a national campaign to improve the interests of women. Where are the benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u85	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll take my heart to everything. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has told you. It's not a wonderful prospect if you put yourself in it. It's kind of better, lying around, just for the soul, not doing it. But this does not look good, and it is naturally just sad when young people go to work and educate themselves, such as. to nurse or medical or laboratory or anything, and does so with interest, but then to do other jobs, give up. It is natural just to face severe hardships and bad conditions for the future. Apparently, nurses are very sought after as stewardess, and at least we get at least one. being able to balance it so that it is not the temptation. But it has to be done for a man to care for. It is not enough to get young people to be educated in this, to be educated as health professionals, to make sure that their jobs are attractive in the first or third year of life, and that people do not give up just in the first or second or third years. Really, that is what really matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council asked me a question like that. Einarsson Guðbrandur, about what conditions are like in service to older people in the South. Hv. A senator said that there were people being taken from the Great National Lands to the Southland, and no doubt I'd be surprised to learn that within that area, there were also scaffolding. There are problems with rural society and among older people in this area in order to receive service in their home area for as long as they can. You have heard that although some people from the capital area were moved to an area in the Southland, they should always be the last option. What can we do, and what is the situation in the South? What does it take to improve? A big question is asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Héusni Ólafsson for his counter-sponsored response. A big question is asked, it was almost visible under my heels. Southland is big, and the situation varies according to where you carry it. I don't think it's anywhere, just the way it's going to be. There's a densely populated area where the situation seems to be very bad, there's a densely populated area where it seems to be better, and then it's the countryside. What must be done? We may now be out of the question of aging services, although this was also important, but it is missing, e.g. Home doctors all over the country. There are new doctors and new doctors, and people say, " Well, we're always repeating the same story over and over again. ' We never meet the same people. We're always at zero points to everyone we meet. There are, therefore, many things to do. However, we should not forget that good things are being done too. Nevertheless, the situation is not good enough, and in some areas in the South Sea, it is a disaster. Thus, a complete solution is needed, and it must be drawn to those places and in the country also so that people can have an opportunity to have a decent health care, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u88	President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer to the counter-sponsor. I just wanted to talk more about it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke of poverty and how we have seen a great increase in poverty and poverty in this country during the past decade. We have also seen large increases in the number of disability. It is well - known that living in poverty makes people refuse to do things, refusing wholesome food, refusing medical care, refusing to accept things that raise life, or moving a person to have good health. What's going on with this group is that within a few years, many of them become elderly and even during the period that will be covered by this plan. I wanted to hear what it was like. A senator sees all the savings we have had in failing to care for this group in the future when these people need aging services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u89	A respectable president. I think if we don't intervene, we'll always get any savings from health care. I think there's an absolute truth that the sooner you get involved, the less the problem will be, the better it will be to prevent something that may never be, but could be a big one without intervention. I think that's always the way it is. I don't think we'll ever get tired of not caring for health care. I think that's the worst thing we can do. It's short-term savings at best, but it's just gonna hit us later. In the natural sense, we are now discussing such matters, for example. that they are being saved by a waiting list for hip or anything. Is it savings? It's not savings. It is only taken from other pockets, as it is called, but is the same vase, because it is all the same; it comes from other places only - the cost of loss of work, the cost of medicine, or other such things, not to mention human suffering. So I don't think we should save in health care, that's the last place. I also think it's okay, and we can all agree that health care is something you want to have. Whether we find ourselves in something or someone close to us, we want to be sure that we have put our arms around us and that we have the best possible service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u90	A respectable president. I see this discussion here today a little like the ones I've so often been participating in my life's work, but I've been working as a hotel and hotel counselor out and south of the world for over 50 years. I've had to deal with uneducated people in Africa, educated people in Italy, etc. What you do first is do before you go into some area and open up a hotel - sometimes more than one thing I've done - is do a so-called "feasibility study" and see where we stand. What is the possibility, and what is the need? I don't think that's an answer. What is the need for this resources in the affected area? Then, naturally, we need to identify who we're putting in there. Then there's one thing about it. A man who doesn't have to go to such an institution today may have to go into such an institution tomorrow. I am now about the age of three of my friends - and two of my best friends - who, of course, are just older than I am, so that I am a little uplifted, couldn't stay home any longer. It was soon time, and these measures need to be in place. You can't ignore the fact that we've been paying the community all these years. I started working at 16 years of age and paying taxes. I paid my pension money for 45 years, and there's still no room for me. What has been done with all the money I paid for tax? Where are they? And what kind of options should this be? I think it's like opening one hotel. It's not that complicated. Of course, money is the foundation, that it is money. The first thing you need to do is just define it and say, "Okay. We're gonna have it this way. It's supposed to be this way. And in order to do so, we need to train up and down so much nurses and doctors. We need cooks, we need people to clean up, etc. Once we have this picture, we can start talking about how much things are going to cost and who to work at what and what individual departments to win. But it's not in there yet. It's just something that's not a bird or a fish. It's like starting with a book in chapter 5. There is no beginning or end. Blessedly, we have begun to smell such things as in Plain Road, where we can see it. The older citizen's relationship has examined this, both in Norway and in Denmark. That's where these homes exist too. All we have to do is sit down and put this together and tell us how many people we have to build. It's very simple. Everyone knew that we who were born out of the war - that it would be a big year out. It's been known since our birth, and why on earth has some of our tax dollars been put aside? They've only been used for something else, and if it is, it needs to be found somewhere else. And I have no doubt that they can be found. They exist. I'm not going to have any more of those words, but these discussions need to be addressed to people such as the older citizen's Union, who's been students of them and who have their opinions on these matters. We need to call the healthcare professionals, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u91	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Wilhelm Wessmann for important words. It is also very important that we younger ones listen to the people who need service now, so the discussion is not just about how we feel about the need. It's extremely important, as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, being in good cooperation with members such as the older citizens' Union. I pointed out the highest. Minister on that very last week that this bill was totally connected, or, as they sometimes say, "Nothing about us without us." I think it was interesting to observe the discussion that had been on this subject, and I wanted to mention some of the points I noticed. Hv. paritaprevir Wilhelm Wessmann pointed out data, that we need to base things on evidence. This enables us to make informed decisions. Part of what needs to be done when creating this policy, and the plan of action, is based on good data. We need to discuss how we will be able to assist such older citizens. How will we do so? How are we going to finance this? It is not enough just to make beautiful promises that work in elections but really have to ensure a good future. How can we make it possible for people to live as far away as home? But when people have to go to some other house - to - house arrangements, they need to be able to live in their own homes. We've talked about how technology and innovation can make a difference in solving problems, and there are many opportunities, even export tools. We have also talked about how important it is for us now that we are making sure that people who are not at this age get access to health care so that they do not become like people who cannot afford to go to the dentist; of course, all their teeth are ruined. It's the same thing with the rest of the body. We also need to tackle poverty among older ones, that is a vital work that we need to do. Finally, it has been made clear that we need to improve our understanding of how governments and rural societies either divide jobs or work better together, so that the ball is not always being thrown between us. This is what we have to do, and this is what we have to do. I know it's the highest. A health minister is a man of cooperation and consultation. I'm just saying to the highest. Minister: I'm ready to work on finding solutions, working on things like this. Just as I said at the beginning of my first speech: " Before you know it, this council proposal has begun to deal with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come up here at the end, seeing the end of this discussion, and thank you for the discussion, thank you for the many good talks and questions that may have been very helpful as a tip. This matter is worthy of all attention. This is a big deal. This is a very important matter, and it is very important that we make progress. Here it is in a dating process. It is true that these are beautiful promises, but they are also inevitable if we are going to be able to improve our situation, not just the health - care facilities and services to the people of the country, but in every topic of affairs that has to do with people in many other ways. Now that it is, because this is how we're going to finance this package, when we can put it in the follow-up strategy, if we have any doubt that we're going to live in a welfare society, 6 out of 10 K's. In the form of government spending, we have a welfare business. It's only one Ministry of Forests, and we've got ten others. I can say every word here that says that as a political person, we are always confronted with the need to set priorities. We're facing it. This matter is very important, and I rejoice when we discuss responsibility as to how we care for our ministry. When we are discussing big, important tasks and a number of good tips are presented and discussed, that may be the last talks we make. I'd like to mention a speech, please. paritaprevir Vilhelm Wessman who said things a little as they are and drew the importance of consultation. We're here to put this in a policy-making process, and the financial Council has often shown that this circuit policy is desirable. Public financial laws have begun to set up a framework for us to view matters in a policy - making process. The country relationship between senior citizens and a lot of agents who know, know this, will join them. The group will address the health-care centre and these policies will be the most likely to occur in this group. The strength to do so is the review of the International Parliamentary Committee and the Health Committee. This will be a group that will be united by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health for a very broad consultation. We cannot go into this work when it comes to the strategy as such where we have to cost ourselves, and I hope that we too will be able to assess the benefits of doing nothing. It's very important, like what's happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who has sat in bed. A legal committee for some time will regularly direct us. This too was seen by many during the discussion and is of great importance. It's been a lot of time for the design. That is a challenge, a challenge. Therefore, welfare, technology and innovation, the role of the Council of aging, or what they are now called, a university and a gerontism clinic will be involved in the process of calling for a policy on welfare techniques. These policies are to be found in health policy until 2030. I thought that was a good point. However, we need to find a way of doing this because we need to expand our ministry. We need to help people stay at home. We have to come up with a variety of agricultural resources. It's all there to find. We acknowledge the importance of health - care professionals in the attention coverage and condition of health groups, which, of course, are of great importance, and earlier in our discussion, we discussed this security that is so precious to us in our health care that we must always maintain and put forth effort to do so. We accept the importance of all health-care groups and it's been a little tricky, so I'm going to arrange for this discussion to take on some particular health-care professions into this kind of policy, so it's here to be understood. I was just going to eventually, at least. Mr President, thank you for this fine discussion and good tip, and I think it's just as good a road for a problem. When a member of the welfare committee looks for comments and comments on the subject, they take along with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u93	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 40/2007, for health care, on land hospital management. In the Treaty for the Government Cooperation Group, Independence Party, and Left Forces, it is stated that the status and role of a health - care hospital are important. Therefore, it is important that this role be strengthened. To this end, a professional government over the hospital will be organized to the north, thus called a dignified president, in the government covenant. Hence, this bill suggests changes in health care laws that a minister appoints seven men to a land hospital. The management board is aimed at strengthening the management of the hospital as the largest health facility in the country and ensuring further professional management of the hospital. Here's a suggestion that the government be organized into seven different individuals and two backups. The minister of the Board of Government for two years at the same time to appoint one of the directors and another vice president. Then two executives are suggested to represent the workers. They have freedom of speech and right to vote for meetings of government rather than vote. Furthermore, the management board suggests that individuals with knowledge of business management and planning, health and scientific studies of health and health professions as well as public administration procedures and administrative procedures. It is suggested that a simple more than a part of the five voters who have vote rights will determine the outcome of a board meeting than the President's votes should determine the outcome if votes are even. This suggests that the management of a Community hospital, in agreement with the director of the Agency, achieves a long-term policy in accordance with its legal policies and roles. The management board is aimed at reviewing the annual work programme and the annual schedule 32. the law on government finances, their own assessments, and the goals and standards set out, and the ministers explain their assessment within two weeks of the appointment of the Ministerial Training Programme. It is suggested that the chairman of the board be regularly made aware of the management and effectiveness of the Agency. A chairman is aimed at identifying the major or unusual measures adopted by the management board, and a minister should be made aware of major business abnormalities, whether there is a routine deviation or a professional concern. Furthermore, it is suggested that the director administer an invitation to a board of directors and direct them. The director is expected to sit for a meeting of directors unless it is determined in isolated cases by a director who has freedom of speech and proposal at the board's hearings. It is also suggested that a government be permitted to announce to others who have a meaningful meeting for a meeting at the board meeting. At the same time, the minister is suggested to write a letter to the management board to determine the terms of the executives, which will be paid by the Agency's management funds. The bill also suggests that the director of a national hospital will be assigned to carry measures, which, in view of daily management, are important or unusual in the activities of the Agency under controlled control. It is expected that the director will still be responsible for the Agency's budget and management income being in accordance with budget and that funds will be used effectively, and this is in accordance with regulations 38. g. the law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state. At the same time, the Management Board will be asked to assist directors in making decisions on other important issues relating to the Agency's management and its activities. Furthermore, it is suggested that the minister put in place a more precise Regulation for the role and responsibility of the administration. In that case, the management procedures should be adopted in more detail about its field of work. I just want to say this here, a respectable president, that this is in accordance with other governments' activities, in order to satisfy laws often in the past, and I think that there's a good addition to what I've said in the past about the role, responsibility, and domain of the government. In addition, there is an adjustment to health care legislation that when operating at a medical facility, changes in the management board should be made to be approved before presenting such a change to a minister. The management board should seek the opinion of a professional when appropriate and that the health - care minister employs seven user tips in a medical facility according to the appointment of a functioning patient organisation. Consult with user advice to ensure that the views of the users of the service are guided by decision-making factors relating to the health care needs of patients. This bill, a respected president, is recommended to appoint a minister of seven men as governor of the Land Hospital. Combination controls as compared to 1.mg. it suggests that there is a reflection of knowledge of the sector and planning and knowledge of the areas that meet the needs of the hospital, i.e. Healthcare services, health-class education, and scientific research in health fields as well as knowledge of official administrative and administrative policies in accordance with the hospital's position as the official organisation. Then representatives of the personnel in the management board are expected to participate in discussions and make proposals for the administration without having a vote. These changes here, which I have specified as health care law, are necessary to establish a legal role, responsibility, and formality of this government. This is essential in order for it to become a reality. So I have explained the basic issues involved and allow myself to suggest that the case be followed by 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u94	President. Thank you very much. Pre-historic minister. I just wanted to get a little more curious about the government, a few things related to it. I wanted to know what the evidence was about that the staff didn't have a vote. I also wanted to know how to do it. A minister has thought of an order for this government to take place. Is it only a minister who chooses who it is, or is this the case, thinking that there is some option for a member of the board? There's one thing I cut off about this, too, and that's the interaction between the director and the board. Now, in some cases, governments, e.g. Director-in-law, in this case, President is in session. It's the highest. There's no fear that there could be a slight conflict between these two groups? How does that really come about? Does the board have any authority over the director, or how does it all feel, this communication and interaction between the board and the director? A lot of questions, hopefully some of them'll get in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Horni Ólafsson for very good questions. These are just questions that woke up. The fact that in the bill isn't quite simple with an official agency. It is partly traced down to the story since we canceled the government's hospitals and so on to explain more fully the role and responsibility of the director, which is related to the last question about the interaction of directors and directors. But I'm gonna start with the first question about the staff representative and why the employees don't have a vote. That's a very good question. I think it's absolutely necessary, first of all, to have a government representative, and this is known in many parts of the North countries. They are thinking that this professional voice of the staff is involved in a discussion of important matters. But it could be reversed if we place the responsibility of these two representatives to vote because it is all as certain, especially when it's big decisions, that it is not a unit at the same size of the workplace for decisions. However, the voice must be heard. Thus, the workers take part in the decision-making without votes. Of course, for the decisions taken along with the director, they are also considered advocates on the floor, thus being supportive, i.e. The manager thus has increased support for carrying out the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u96	President. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. Maybe it's the highest. Minister to come to answers on the interaction between director and management. That's exactly what I wanted to say later on. There's an issue that says that the director needs to bear a significant point under the board and is one example, if I read it correctly, about e.g. what action should have been discontinued from Covid. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if it could be a few examples in recent years when we have been dealing with Covid, what could be defined as an important point under control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u97	V.E.G. President. I had come to some point, and I'll try to answer that question, too, about something important, as if only here. I think it's always very important with important things, such as today, in this direct relationship between presidents and Ministers under law, that, of course, we need to report important things, change, change of organization, stop some activities, close departments, etc. These are all such decisions, important. It is also important, as it is in the law of this particular day, that the management of important decisions in consultation with the director and if it is subject to direct service to patients, it is also under user advice. This is known from these governments. Only with regard to the choice of agents in the board. There are various ways to go. When it comes, e.g. that workers can be named from the Commission, from the National Competent Authority. The democratic route can be taken all inside the hospital, and a similar way may be used by a minister to call for representatives to make the entire administration possible. I hope that at least I have very little to do with those questions. A senator was here to present. Then I'd like to say about the interaction of the director and the management director that I so sincerely hope with as much and as much work, whether we recommend it on the budget or just in the number of employees, there is no institution as big - I don't think it will result in that support being there and it will build on very good cooperation to get support to support the hospital's professional business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u98	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister at the same time for the story. I had a few questions, but it's as if the first person involved in the so - called professional democracy has answered the question, i.e. The staff's residence. In Comb 4. The bill speaks of a decision made by the hospital to ensure that its user councils and viewpoints are provided to ensure access to its users for organizational decisions on the services provided by the hospital. For this reason, I would like to ask the highest. Minister if it is not proper to state clearly in the law that the staff of user interests receive legal representatives in the hospital administration. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have wondered, " Is there a similar viewpoint as well, and if there is a basis for this subject's counsel, for other health institutions, then I am thinking mainly of the hospitals in the country? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Stefán Pálsson's son for very good questions. First about the user council: A detailed consultation was made with a strong request for users to be in control. This is also known by the hospitals we visited in the North countries. This is known at the Karolinian Hospital. Of course, there are options. It's like they put it in here at 4. it is right to plan to put on a special user guide. A number of patients are so high, and then we have an umbrella organization that's holding the number of patient organizations. If we were to handle just one agent, that would be a lot. We're talking about democracy in control, because we stress that users have voices and come to important decisions that are taken directly to the ministry. This communication has only been established in the bill, but it's not expected, it's true. A senator says they have one representative in charge. I think it's a good arrangement. But I look forward to seeing this coverage on the welfare committee, the viewpoints, how it's going to be best, but it's an arrangement that's known. Hv. A senator then had other questions, a respectable president, perhaps following them in his later reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u100	A respectable president. Thank you for the answers. My second question is, is there not any basis for any similar views and values about this government, which I think is just an improvement, so that governments would be over other health institutions? Then, first of all, I look to the health centers in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. We can consider the medical facilities that carry out the ministry in each district, hospital and health care, as well as in some cases nursing. The hospital at Akureyri, which is our second major hospital--we'll certainly remember at some point, when we have experience with this government, looking to it. I think it's bound to come up. But I think it's good to take this step now because we're in and have to go back a bit. We were in control of the state's Hospital, but we disappeared from it. Now we're going back to get, in such a big institution, more support for the management of the hospital. I think this is definitely going to come up to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u102	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story of this bill for changes in health care laws. When you read the bill, and I don't talk about 1. Well, then I'll think of the partner arrangement right away, i.e. Governments in partnerships. In the management board, representatives of the owners are elected to monitor directors and top executives, who are members of the Society. I feel like when I read 1st degree. in the bill, the establishment of an institution, the administration of Land Hospital, which will increase the writing and gain the weight of decision making. It seems that this is primarily a assistance, professional assistance, to the director of the hospital, if I understand this correctly. In fact, there are votes and things like that at board meetings and more parts, so it can be smaller things and stuff like that. I think it's a little mixed up in the business arrangement by installing this government. I wondered if there's been an increase in the writing, since I see that the management of a company is responsible for a minister's decision to which she agrees, which is 3. mg, and so does 4 mg. that the chairman of the National Hospital should inform the minister of the government's operation. We have a board of directors, and then the Chairman specifically, and then we also have the director, and he also has a responsibility to the minister. It quotes from 38th C.E. The staff song, and I would have liked to see that in almost every part of the law. He gets a letter from the Minister and then he's responsible for the minister. Then we have three people who are responsible for the minister and need to inform him, and the question is, is if there's not a little place to go, and this increases the workload of work on the Minister and Director.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson coat for very broad questions about this project, which was actually more complex than I expected at the outset, i.e. to speak well enough, into changes in health care laws, roles, responsibilities, and resources. We have a government agency and we need to examine it in accordance with the laws on the duties and rights of public employees. We also need to look to the law on public financial matters as we have to make clear the role and responsibility of this government. It is so clear what the director's role and what responsibility he has toward the minister, the minister's responsibility is absolutely clear. At the billwork, laws were applied, such as 32rd par. the law on government finance, on annual budgets for this enormous amount of money, this is now 90 billion years'budget. We often call for transparency, and I don't think there will be any more support in the management of such a hospital, where the magnitude is equal, when handling funds. I also want, well to mean, about the responsibilities involved in making budgets and reviews - because of this. A senator entered the check we haven't been able to activate, i.e. the internal review section, in accordance with official financial legislation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think the effort to draw this role and responsibility has been successful. [[President (DMSI): President reminds me of why. Councilmen and the highest. The minister should respect speech time.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. You hope that the Government of the Land Hospital will ease stress from the director. This does not change that in such an institution it is of utmost importance to have a powerful manager and a powerful executive. I could have imagined that this would be a provision for the Commission of the Land Hospital, where the various managers formed the Commission responsible for the Minister. But it isn't. When I read this now, it seems that in consultation with the director, long-term policy should be set. It might be burdensome for the director who is driving the hospital to control himself, which may not be entirely in agreement. A lot of energy could get into it, and it could take on other aspects of the operation. I'd like to ask the minister if it was not right, and I'll agree to have the employees who had vote rights, and then it might also be a question of whether this will be the official society as it is in Norway, seems to me, as the bill shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u105	V.E.G. President. I emphasize that, along with all these changes, we still define the role of the hospital very well. They only speak very well of the cases we were discussing earlier, about caring for different service levels, points first, second and third stages of service, so I don't talk about the science show and staff education into the future too at the hospital. I think we did a good job here. What was tried to do is to ensure that the director's responsibility remains unchanged in accordance with law, that is important, and in accordance with the responsibilities and duties discussed in the law on the rights and responsibilities of employees. We also withdrew from this arrangement in 2007 for governments because it was thought that the director's responsibility was not clear enough. I think it must remain that way, but it will not stop a government from serving its purpose to support the management of the Agency. Of course, it could mean, like a whale. A senator says, longer in decision making, but I don't think it will ever strengthen her.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u106	Madam President. It's an extraordinary pleasure to join this little girl right now. The bill to the highest. The health minister of Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is here, in my opinion, absolutely necessary. I like the bill, and I hope the health minister is doing well with this. But I can't quite put up with myself, even though I don't necessarily intend to delay a health minister in some hostage situation until the last minute, because I'm a little obliged - Mrs. President of this sort sometimes works. At the 150th legislature, a bill was also provided. The first transporter was Ólafur Ísleifsson, former member of the Central Party, and one of the representatives of the bill was the one standing here. But it may not have come from the right direction, since there is no material difference. In fact, when reading these bills, it is repeated in the text to form 2 mgr. 20. The law, the Minister shall appoint seven men in command. The first sentence in a new article following Article 8. a. The law in the bill of Ministers reads: I'm not going to read myself through this team for a team that's been unstable who's been sitting here for an hour under answer. However, it is not possible to work in this way in modern society, Madam President. This could have been done at the 150th legislature, perhaps by some change that would have made the government more comfortable, at least run things faster. People have been talking about it throughout the years in this hall, especially those sitting at any given time in smaller sections, that this is going to continue at the speed of the snail. I think in some cases like this, the snail's going down. It's an unusually slow snail. But I say again that I celebrate this bill as the highest. A health minister puts in here. Surely it could have come sooner, as I agreed, but better late than never. I'll back it up. I'll know what to do. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus would have done the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u107	Madam President. Yeah, yeah. A senator hit it on the head. There's a bit of a fuss about taking old bills from the government position and changing them to the government's primes. I think it's only good that good ideas are stolen, and I declared it, when I started here at the council, that the government is permitted to accept every good idea I bring and use in my own laws and regulations as long as they were well used. But this may also be so at times that the government will hold up a matter as we have, for example. are provided with a dosing bill. But I wanted to ask you what. The senator what other good things he will have for a health minister to make use of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u108	Madam President. I've been here every once in a while for 2017, but I've never had this question. I'm sure I can pick up things and things that I like, but I'm going to have that conversation with the highest level. Secretary of health. If we agree on this bill, we may not be sure to agree on all matters. But if a health minister comes to me, I promise you, I'll take it personally and put ideas on his table, and then I'll choose him. But about a question why. I'm kind of a big mouth open to a senator. I just didn't expect to be called to work at the highest level. I'll be happy to meet and participate in this with the highest degree. Minister of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u109	Madam President. I'm going to start by saying I'm happy that we're dealing with the highest bill. A health minister who suggests that a special government over Iceland's Hospital will be established. Despite what happened earlier, it is now an old hobby for many, not just for this chamber, and it has been written many times and discussed, including. of those who stand here, and can go back some years. However, I have the right and duty to address this matter because there are several factors in the bill that I believe are necessary to consider. We can call it a fault to some extent, for it is quite clear that the management of companies or institutions is intended to provide managers and employees, while at the same time encouraging and ensuring that the organization of the members, members, institutions, is in good standing. Therefore, it is important that governments be appointed in such a way that they choose people who have knowledge of the subject but that there is also a suitable width among politicians. I am concerned that when it comes to the regulations of this bill on the conditions that the directors must meet, there are too high and the danger that a number of qualified individuals, who would be desirable to sit in the management board of the Land Hospital, will be unable to do so because of the demands that are placed there, and I assume that they will. The welfare committee will consider this. But this is not the main thing. There are other factors in the bill that I think we need to take a closer look, which is first the interaction between the hospital and the director. According to the bill, the board has no offer to the director. This will reduce the value of the government, and in reality it will go beyond the goals we are trying to achieve by appointing the Lands Hospital, this important institution, and perhaps perhaps the most important organization of our Icelanders, a special independent government. This is essential to a health committee and the highest level. Especially during concierge treatment was a health minister. There is evidence to suggest that a minister is in command only, but that it becomes the role of the management board to hire directors or managers. Of course, we can follow a part-friendly pattern, but we can also follow a model for the state stocks in this regard, even though it is also the procedure for the Minister of a ship in particular rather than the management of the institution, and I think of it. that it may be this way in Houses and Mansion Institutes and possibly beyond, but the rest also exists. I think it is of utmost importance that the hospital's administration is responsible for the management and management of the Land Hospital and for the minister and for the council, who then have the authority and should be hired by the director responsible for government control. But when we discuss this bill, we should also consider, or at least I want to talk about it. It should be noted that adequate risk management and internal monitoring is one of the basic users that the management of a social or institutional organisation can perform its functions and include Make sure the law is done. This is clear, and our experience is that risk management and internal monitoring are more likely to increase the risk that the work and business and services being performed in the way we demand it to be. I think it is necessary in the treatment of this case to consider whether there is any reason to write into the bill that internal monitoring should be set in a manner similar to that observed at least for all the largest segments of the country. Guð forbids us from taking the unfortunate step, as I heard in the Senate hall earlier, to make the Land Hospital a public society that would be a means of disaster, but let it lie between parts. But internal Affairs, active internal Affairs, is of great importance to hospital management, to the hospital director and to principal managers. I think there might be evidence to clearly move it into the Law text when we deal with this bill. Another comment I have is how they're going to appoint a government when it comes to staff representatives. It doesn't make sense to me that two agents on the board are called directors, but they don't vote. Such people are hearing agents and can never be considered directors in the traditional sense. If there is a need for a representative to sit in the hospital's administration, and we can discuss its pros and cons, you have to step to the finish and say, "You are equal to governors and others, and you have not only freedom of speech and proposals but also a full vote. " Otherwise, two of the directors may be absent, three managers present a meeting, including two members of the staff, and a decision will be made at a board meeting with perhaps two votes. It's not working. There are advantages and problems for employees to sit in charge, but if they do not make that decision, they cannot be given the same place as any other government, so that they sit as legitimate politicians instead of being agents to whom they would otherwise be. If you don't want to vote for employees, employees, you have to go straight to work and say that the staff of the Land Hospital have two audiences they really are. It is also unclear in the bill how these employees should be selected. Of course, the representatives of the staff are not the head of the hospital or the hospital manager or anything like that. It must be done in another way. I have no specific solution to the way people plan to do it. However, there is a subject I believe that to avoid problems that could arise in late stages, people need to be resolved. Mr. President. I'm going to reiterate what I said in the beginning. I'm going to thank the highest. Ministers are eager to contribute this bill. As a member of a welfare committee, I will do my part to make it work and I hope that there will be a broad solid solidarity. At the same time, I've assumed an obligation and right to account for the shortcomings that I see on the bill and will arrange for them for the work that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u110	President. I thought it would be late as I was. Tenth. We're out of Suðvest. "Óli Kárason Kállson would agree on some things. But I have to say, this talk presented quite a bit of a talk that I wholeheartedly agreed with. I'd like to start with the second, which is who controls who. To me, a board of directors and responsible for business and other matters should be employed for the minister and the council. But it would break up, like the highest. The minister pointed out, the present model of the conclusion that the director corresponds directly to the minister. I wanted to hear something. The senator's comments about what might go on and what would be needed to solve the fact that today the president responds directly to a minister. If we start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u111	Mr. President. It is in nature that if there is to be any ideas or suggestions I made here, i.e. to the management and driver's end of a task force, it's the government that corresponds to a minister, as I think I've mentioned, and also answers to us at the council, the fundamentist, etc, and not the director. The director will answer to the board. I hope that's perfectly clear. Of course, a minister may like a welfare committee or a financial committee, or any committee, request that he arrange for the director of the Hospital to meet with him to discuss specific matters. That's perfectly normal. It is employed by government agencies and government institutions, who have independent governments that employ their directors. There's nothing wrong with that. But the responsibility for the minister rests with the hospital administration appointed by the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u112	President. Yes, it is good that we continue to agree, me, and why. Senator. I just wanted to talk about it as a boy. A senator first mentioned in his talk, which was how the qualifications for knowledge and experience in the management board could affect the possibility of finding qualified and kind people for the job. One of the things I cut down on the bill is that it's being cut a little bit more than the size of a lot of government officials, considering 2007. At that time, there were nine agents in charge, of whom there were not two agents, such as hell. A senator rightly points out that the staff representatives are. My question to why. A senator is: To find enough people who meet requirements, do we not need to grow in the government? That's the first question. The second question is: A senator that a minister should appoint all governments or that some should be appointed by the council, as usual for 2007?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u113	Mr. President. First of all, about what I said here about the demands for the management: I think they're too detailed here, and I'm just following a role model when it comes to my partner's law. I think it's enough. I understand what men are trying to do here and what they're trying to do. They're making sure it's at least Someone in the board who has insight and knowledge and experience from the health system, and that is not unusual. You might also wonder, " Should I not go further and say that one individual in charge has knowledge and experience in the management of medical or foreign hospitals? ' All I'm saying is, when we go this far, we may be trying to rule out people who are desirable in themselves to be in the hospital's administration. This is a point I think the committee should look into, but I have no other tip but this, that they have this in mind. It's about a lot of executives, like what happened. Ólafsson I think it's enough to have seven. I think it's crowded to have nine, that can lead to a loss of control over the board. But maybe this is another tiny detail again. I'm not saying, however, that the government should be placed in a different way than I have previously said, that there is a minister as a ship in command. He's responsible for the jury. The board is responsible for the minister, and I feel that this is normal, and the director is responsible again for the government that hired him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was noted earlier that it seemed that only the governor of the Land Hospital was responsible for a minister. I don't read it from the law, and that's not what the bill says. It is quite certain that the director, the director of the Land Hospital, is responsible for the minister of the court. Thirty-eight. The staff song. He gets a letter and 2 mg. Thirty-eight. it says that he is responsible for a work in accordance with law, administration recommendations and letter of application, that he is responsible for the management spending being in accordance with the budget, etc. The responsibility, therefore, is both the board and the director, but mainly the director's responsibility so that it is fully set up. I agree that the board does not have an invitation to the director, and it is not in charge of the director. I was especially interested in it as a boy. A senator said there was an active internal check. The matter is related only to my career. Active internal Affairs is not in control. [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's not active, there's surveillance. Active internal examination should be carried out. I just couldn't believe it when I heard that there was no internal accountant at the Land Hospital. This is where internal monitoring should be active. And we can also go down a little lower, enter an active internal check then in a rule check or risk management unit, which is then just a Risk Management Department. Then comes an internal accountant, and then comes the board. This is the kind of thing that we can call it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if it would not be enough to start strengthening the management of the Land Hospital by having an internal accountant and seeing how it works, and even active internal surveillance of employees who are on the inside for the manager, but not putting up a kind of counselling government to support him, writing and planning, not that there is simply increasing the written process by this government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u115	Mr. President. I thought I was clear when I spoke of internal Affairs. It means internal review, it's just another word, so it's clear. I'm suggesting it. A senator, that there will be written into the law that there will be internal reviews, internal Affairs, at the Hospital. I think it matters to the board and to its function that this is the way it is, as well as to the director. Similarly, I am convinced that if we are going to take this step, which I think is a step forward, there are opportunities to do even better than there is in the bill. If we are bringing the government the tools and responsibility to care for the management of the Land Hospital financially and also for the services given, the government will also have the tools to hire and run the director and then have responsibility to the minister, to the Lawgiver, and to the public. This makes sense. I suppose, but I have not done thoroughly in it, e.g. You can look to the way in which you are being treated in the country. I think it's true that I'm being hired by the Director-in-laws and that there's not a staff law in charge there. There's so many debates about how men make governments, but I think there are nine rulers there. But let it lie in between things. To be clear, huh? A senator, I am suggesting that the bill be written text on internal Affairs, internal review.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We are totally on the same page. I completely agree with him that it is fundamental, if we are to put a seven-man administration in which only five have the right to vote, that internal reviews and functional internal Affairs will be set up. In fact, I believe that there should be a requirement for an internal accountant who would then provide information for the board and also that internal surveillance would be required to maintain and maintain the trust of the head of the hospital. That's basic. I don't think it's a perfect law in this regard. It is simply inadequate to have a government that is basically written and planned and for some form of professional support. This does not change that it is both the president and the board responsible for ministers. First and foremost, the director, it's crystal clear in the 38th floor. It's the way it works. We have a double system, we're increasing the handwriting where the director is responsible for the minister, the government is responsible for the minister, and the chairman of the board needs to inform ministers regularly about the operation. Hv. A senator answered earlier, and I know he was testifying to my words -- I don't approve because there's an official community, hf., not at all. According to the bill, hospitals in other parts of the North countries are being looked upon as a government organization. I can't tell which country you're looking at, whether it's Sweden, Denmark, or Norway, with this pattern. I'd love to if it was the highest. A minister could tell us about it, I don't see what kind of role it is, which country it is. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this bill is not a little stillborn with a lack of authority, a lack of the boss's authority, and a lack of internal review.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-21-53.u117	Mr. President. First as a boy. Ármannsson Last said this: "No, this bill isn't still born. I told you before, I'm going to do everything I can to pay the street of this bill so that it becomes legal. But I'm hoping that we can get together to make the changes that I think are necessary and possibly come up with other indications, in the comments of other parties, that we need to take into consideration. Mr. President. I also live so well to have the highest. He's a health minister who jumped in a corner. He snuck up a magazine that, of course, I should have known about, which is 65rd. it's a government law. It is important to note that Member States, Member States in Part A1 and Part A2 are obliged to have internal reviews, under official financial legislation. However, it has been pointed out by the Society on internal review, and I believe that it has been in consultation with the bill, that, unfortunately, citizens have failed to take the role of building up and developing an internal review, as the laws on public finances really require. This will be because it has not yet been seen by a regulations based on this internal review. But the manager of such internal reviews is to have expertise, that is not beyond it; he does not have to be legally validated, in the field of revision. This does not change the fact that the tips are so important that I had to write a law into the bill we discuss that internal Affairs, internal review, should be at the Land Hospital to support the management and executive authorities.
