ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 930, with regard to the affairs of Iceland's district attorney in the Netherlands, from Biron Leví Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u2	A respectable president. Once again, I've come up here to seek the help of a president in defending the respect of the council, which is constantly fighting with the U.S. National Institute of Iceland, under the highest cover. Minister of Justice, the delivery of data required by the Parliament to provide applications for Icelandic citizenship. The situation has again become the same as it once was; The Foreign Institute repeatedly refuses to deliver these data and does not yield. The Commission can't start a job without this evidence. It appears that if the Foreign Institute is not moved to deliver these data, no more applications will be supplied this year. We've just finished applying which was supposed to be done here in December. Usually they are taken care of twice at the council; in December and then in spring, and they aim for more applications not to be supplied because the Foreign Office refuses to provide the Senate with the necessary information. I once again request the help of the chairman of the council and his information on what can be done. We can't take a businessman and go to the Foreign Institute. What can we do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u3	The president will investigate the position of this issue that has been brought to the attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u4	Mr. President. I begin to suspect that it is no coincidence that the U.S. Foreign Institutes will keep these Civil Rights application systematically out of the General because it is under the people who are looking for Generalis because it will not pass through the needle's eye that has been slided by the law. And I'm beginning to suspect that I don't appreciate the fact that we let these people in. Just as foreigners are being changed so it's easier to reimburse people without having them settle here and make friends who speak their language here, they are working hard to see that by the way of the administrative payment, the council will always stop showing this humanity that we do here twice a year because they had to flee their country and may not all have a certificate to get through the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]] This humanity displayed twice a year is clearly toxic to the bones of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland, which keeps us from showing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u5	A respectable president. I don't think that's a good idea. Congress officials present this dignified speaker and make some joke from public employees at institutions doing their work. It is true that we have not received a review of all the government rights applications, and we need that information, and we need it. However, this is not the case with the National Institute of Iceland who refuse to deliver data. The position of the Foreign Institute has been, and that is, in fact, the highest attitude. Minister, that the applications work in chronological order. It's the attitude, just to be thought of. On the other hand, the procedure adopted by the Foreign Institute is not quite suitable for the way a General Education and Education Committee has had regarding the granting of citizen's rights through the General Assembly. We need to find a better way to bring a citizen's rights through the Generals, and there is no one who intends to depose that plan. [[The president calls.]] But we need to change our ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u6	A respectable president. The president mentioned earlier that he was going to check it out. All I can do is tell about it like it was. paritaprevir Although I disagree on the interpretation, the wife of Haraldsdóttir has made some point. It is certainly true that the National Institute of Iceland has refused to provide us with evidence that we have asked for a law on the General Assembly. We insisted on getting the data before the start of a meeting on Monday. We didn't get them. We received a letter saying, "You don't get it. Based on what is stated in the letter, we will not have them before the end of the council. This name is no more than refusing to deliver the data. Then I'd like to confirm your suspicions. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son that there may be some obvious basis behind this denial. It has already been stated in the National Institutes of Iceland that somehow they are irritated by the fact that the Allied Council is giving citizens the right to a state of interest in these comments and an opinion derived from the Foreign Institute. What will the Foreign Institute do then? She stopped giving us these reviews. I just want to reiterate, the situation is that the U.S. National Institute is refusing to submit these data. She'll do it at the secretary's shelter. [[The president calls.]] She did this before the minister stepped in. I don't agree that public employees are being made to be horny. Those responsible for this institution, her president and minister, can do so. [[The president calls.]] But it is indeed a foreign agency to deliver these data, not a minister, and to refuse to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what we've learned here that it's been a long time, as we all know in here, to cut this knot. A lot of things have been nice about what happened. paritaprevir The Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, president of the General and Education Committee, and I'm also seated in such a manner that I've only observed this case, that we need to find a new order -- we must not forget that there is an institution that is really forcing the council into a new system. There are only two men who can lean on this knot. It's the President of the Generals and the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice. I'm going to agree with the wishes here has been observed day after day, week after week. It's getting very important to sort this out. I don't understand why it hasn't been done yet. We know exactly who can lean on the knot, and I'm going to go to the best search for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u8	A respectable president. This is a matter for which the whole world should be united. It doesn't matter how we feel about foreigners or the litigation that exists in the Foreign Institutes, for the situation is simply that officials do not tell the Generals what to do. Government officials cannot control the work of the Allied Council. That's why we need the help of the General President, if this is not clear. The general body plays a role, works for the people in the country, and should not be so that institutions are knowingly trying to delay their work. It just doesn't make sense. It's unannounced.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u9	Mr. President. I just want to point out the obvious fact that today is May 18th. According to the work programme, we complete June 10th. You see, this isn't coming up for the first time. We arrived at the end of last year when the National Institute of Iceland refused to deliver data and reviews of civil rights applications. It took many, many weeks to solve it. So, in view of the calendar, I would like to encourage the president not to knock on the minister's door with mildness and wait and wait as it happened here at the beginning of the year, as we took a dozen conference discussions to call for this matter, but that this will be resolved so that the next time we meet for the meeting on Monday the next Monday the resolution will be agreed by the council and the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u10	To answer, Secretary of Economics and Economics, Ministers of wood and Education and Children's Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u11	A respectable president. In the evening news of Stopr 2 last night, there was an interview with the Red Cross director who criticized that the state strengthened Ukrainian children to flee some considerably higher money than refugees from other countries. For a long time, raising money for the sake of the children of refugees has been called, in turn, a particularly sensitive group that needs help in adjusting both, as well as in post - traumatic work after war and other disasters they have experienced. But, a respectable president, one will be over everyone's walking, or what? They were amazed to hear that. A media minister should justify this discrimination rather than apologize for these mistakes. I would like to remind the minister of the Constitution's 90th rule, which clearly forbids discrimination on the grounds of national background, color, or religion. I don't see any reason to pay a company 2,000 bucks. More for serving with an escaped child from Ukraine than with an escaped child, let's say Afghanistan. I haven't seen any government to offer any solid evidence for this. That's why I'm asking the highest. Children's Secretary of Child: What are the reasons for paying a higher sum of Ukrainian children than children who come here for safety from Afghanistan or Syria? Tells you the highest. The minister of this decision resists the Constitution's 90th rule, or is there to correct the payment so that every child on the run will have the same rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying that it is, of course, and I said in a TV interview yesterday, that children are children, whether they come from Ukraine or Syria. What's going on here is that we've been in a really good relationship, and we've had a conversation with our rural society about how to put their arms around the population coming from Ukraine because they're not going directly into the agreed reception system that's being run, i.e. consistent with the welcome of refugees. They believed that it was quite likely that large groups from Ukraine would come to this country, and the rural communities were concerned about it. That's why we've been having a conversation with our rural society, both through the Union and also the Ministry of Social Affairs has been talking about how we can come in and push these individuals into our country. That's the way it's done. While the reception is being formed in the school system and how we visualize it, this is the way it is done. However, the senator is absolutely correct in saying that it is important for us to better care for our children when fleeing, and that is what we are preparing for. Of course, a lot of things have happened in recent years, and I specifically pointed out the uniform welcome system that is being run here in a country that means that all people who come here, whether they're greeting workers or otherwise, go into that welcome system. It was a one-year experiment project. Now there's a conversation about extension of that project, and a representative of the Ministry of Education and Children is involved in that conversation. We assume that there will be a better discussion. But as I say, I think it's possible to say that there's a reason to do something even better with kids running away. That's what we're doing. with a special staff recently installed and led by the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Farmers have long called for more money to do this work. Sadly, though, this systematic discrimination that appears to us is not limited to Iceland and the decision made by the government of the United States. At a press conference yesterday, Rocca, president of the International Union of the Red Cross and the Red Half Moon, said that people's origin and nationality were not to be controlled when life needs to be saved. Obviously, there was twice the moral standard in the affairs of refugees. You can face it, and you can't deny it. The Marshal yesterday called for an open meeting of the General and Education Committee for political leadership against the lesions of everyday racial prejudice here. I agree that we need a tremendous effort to break down prejudice, a systematic prejudice, and then asks: A minister would not agree? And should we start with ourselves and not discriminate refugees, depending on where they are coming from? Don't you think everybody's gonna have one walk?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u14	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. Senator. The point here is that this is a special temporary support for rural society, but the nature of the case is responsible for the close - up activities of both children and adults. That is true in this relationship as well as in others. What was being handled here is to bring financial support temporarily to a rural society to meet the expectation that there would be a very large, heavy group that would come in excess of what would normally be coming through the security system and those factors. I just couldn't agree more. Senator, like I said. I told them yesterday during the interview that children are children, whether they come from Ukraine or elsewhere. That's why we're starting work. Hence, a special control team was being initiated under the leadership of a former senator and secretary of Óttar Proppér, who will lead them to work and, in fact, to work. in a conversation with the rural communities about the concerted receptions, since I expect children's issues to be even larger than they've been in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u15	A respectable president. The increases in the pay loads of homes and businesses up to tens of thousands per month are in the maps. We watched the treatment of banks in the homes of the last crash, and there was no mercy. And even though the collapse was their own fault, they did not know how to be ashamed but went so hard on their own victims. And now we're going back to the sacrifice of the houses for the so - called stability. For whom, though, is the constantity if their homes are sacrificed for it? I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: How is the Supreme Minister? A minister sees that a home that may contain 300,000,500,000 each month can handle 25,000,400,000 dollars. an increase, which is what will be added to the loans of many this time because of a 1% increase in the reference growth of the Federal Bank? And second of all: Tens of thousands of rent - rent increases are imminent, proclaiming the actions of the government on their behalf will clearly not be enough. What happens to tenants who do not live under rising rents? Where will they live? And third: Is the government ready to publish that no one will lose his home in the predictable and circumstances that ordinary homes have little or no effect on? And finally? Is it justified to deprive hundreds or thousands of families of their families of stability? Is home justified in paying for stability? Is it justified to demand such sacrifices? It is human right to have a home, and children have the right to live in a secure home. The government needs to show political courage and protect the homes. She must make a political decision and state that no one will lose his home in the state that is predictable for a while. Only in this way will we secure the houses. Is the government ready to do that, or is she going to let her home jack off?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u16	A respectable president. There is reason to monitor the pay loads and the ability of the households to repay their commitments. We can bear in mind, though, that this situation has not been better than at the beginning of this year and toward the end of the last one, i.e. the proportion of households with difficulty making ends meet at the end of the month has not been lower before, and that is a very good clue. I'm gonna let me question the fact that this is a typical incident. In this regard, a senator noted that it is common for people in the low income ladder to see this huge increase in payment per month because of their last decision to make interest. But it doesn't change that the government has already decided to react, and I'm here ordering for a bill later this afternoon to meet those who have nothing to do with their hands in the community. There is nothing that we can do that is more important than recreating GDP and that should be in the foreground of our discussion. What can we do to restore the marriage of inflation? How can we use the financial resources so that we can do so, and how do we cooperate with the actions of the Federal Bank? There's nothing more important than this. In the meantime, until it reaches its reach, there are many resources, and they are not all with the government alone to intervene. They are also in the hands of the financial institutions that have more important responsibilities to meet the needs of those who need financial support. For tenants, I believe that we need to keep an eye on them as closely as we do on the market where buyers and owners are concerned because they show us that there are delicate homes involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u17	A respectable president. The thing is, it's too late to do something when people get in trouble and he's predictable. To expect to rely on the mercy of financial companies - the Supreme Court. Minister just has to forgive - it doesn't work. They have no mercy, I have personal experience with them, and that has thousands of others. There's nothing to rely on, it's not there. And how expensive a price is it to master the inflation in this way? The cost of housing is the largest mail in every household, and it goes up. This is also the mail that people have the slightest control over. It can control its consumption, we can decide to drive less or buy less cheaper species of something, or we can choose to live on oatmeal for some time to save ourselves if necessary. But the cost of living is what is most challenging. [[The president calls.]] I just want to say that we do things differently than the nations around us, where interest rates are not so high. [[The president calls.]] In 9% of the inflation, the British are increasing by 0.25%.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u18	A respectable president. In fact, in historical light, growth is not very high today. That's exactly what I could say. Senator, I have personal experience with having to take a loan at a much higher rate than the market interest today, a much higher rate of interest, and then sitting up with 20% of the letters of the house, where you actually borrowed only 80% of the loan you promised to pay back. In this context, in historical light, the ideals are still very good today. This does not change the fact that many may have excited their bow very loud and suffer little, not having much table to carry to cope with an increased load of payment. Then there are a number of options to look into before it comes to intervening, like a gurgle. A senator is actually suggesting here, that the state will enter agreements on mortgages, in some way intervene in matters, and force conclusions that are not available in the market. I have to say, at this point I think it would be a lot delirium to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u19	A respectable president. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Last May, Helga Vala Helgadóttir made up of her subject in the past year, the government announced on May 12 that she was going to strengthen rural communities about 200,000 bucks. Why a Ukrainian child fleeing the country. A minister has testified that this project is now being handled specifically, i.e. came here because of the invasion of Ukraine. However, that does not answer the question, "Why is there any national support, " why does it not simply apply to all refugees? ' This challenge is not new. Lacking support for children of a foreign background, especially with refugees, has previously been criticized, as well as serious, by the fact that children escape to school. Many of these problems have indeed been attributed to the lack of financial resources and the position of local society in order to provide these children with the legal right to their children. For years, civil strife in Syria and other serious conditions leading up to the Mediterranean have given us reason to believe that there will be several people, including children. This year, about 1330 people have come to the country. Although the majority of the people are of Ukrainian origin, people from other countries, such as Venezuela, Palestine, Syria, and Afghanistan, are still looking for them. At the time the group of paint has been in custody of the highest power. Ministers have about 430 children here protected. The remaining year, 249 Ukrainian children have been protected. As noted, rural communities have long called for extra funding to care for these projects. So I want to ask the highest. Minister for why he has not considered a reason to do this before, to support all the children who have come here in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and say, as before, when I answered a question. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, that what's being done here is temporary support for rural society, which they specifically called after because they thought would be much heavier in the near future because of a little blinder in the ocean with how many people and families are coming to the country. What we've been doing in the past few years is setting up a consistent welcome system for refugees that especially saw how families who came here would be taken to flight. We've been developing and developing our support systems in this country for the past few years. That was even. conducted by this welcome system, which is being tested now and in the hands of the Department of Social Affairs, which is equally applied throughout all families, whether or not they come here as kookers or as visas for protection or whatever it may be. This system is now being revised, and one of the points being discussed is how better to meet children in that system. So I dismiss the fact that nothing has been done. We've been in perfect harmony with the way we're supposed to step in. But does it need to be done better? Yes, it needs to be done better. Therefore, while this review is being made, we are now considering how we can better support the children who come here and live on the run with their families. To this end, I've just appointed a special control group, where I got a semipolitic representative, I'd like to say, to lead them to work. I'm telling you, that person is nothing because it's being scratched that something should come out of it. Simply put, the objective is to improve how we care for children and families of foreign background. I just agree completely with what. A senator who comes here criticizes the fact that we're not doing enough. We need to do better, and that's why we're working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. However, a minister for the answer, although I still feel that my question has not been properly answered, why these funds have not been provided in the past. We all know that there is one thing to promise and decide to do something, but if it doesn't have money, it won't. But I'm going to turn myself into my second question. Last night's interview said it was the highest. Ministers want to improve the system that welcomes refugees, and they heard me confirm this in his speech here. However, the highest standard recommended. Minister of Justice in the government. child - care minister for bill of tomorrow's day, who aims to severely impair people's rights to escape, reduce the efficiency of the system, increase the cost of both the world and the community and the human cost of refugees, including children. I'm going to the top. Minister to support this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u22	A respectable president. What really matters in this subject is that every government involved in children's affairs needs to win an estimate of what is best for children. I have stressed that in that work there is more to it than the law, but also the way such interests are dealt with. It's being done at present, and that's what needs to be followed and it needs to be okay because in recent years, I want to say, and it was noticed by me during the last term, the point where I seriously doubt that the best interests of children are being considered out of the way that the child thing tells us to do. That's what I believe they're changing and fixing and improving. But we too are developing into a society in this regard, and this requires much more and much more depth and a much more emphasis on the interests of our children than not on their parents or on some particular interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u23	President. The inflation is rising, and the people of the country are biting seriously. Both employees and businesses are waiting the next few weeks to make decisions made by the Federal Bank with anxiety about their stomach and further increases are found in the maps. The discussion contains a great deal of focus on the Federal Government Board and its decisions, but less focus on the government of the budget, the fact that if governments fail to show the responsibility and to approach the state's budget with reason, growth will increase further with the serious consequences for the people in the country. According to Gylfi Zoëga, the government's expenses are growing beyond the government's taxes, and that is an account that everyone sees does not work out. Homes in the country could not always be allowed to spend beyond their income. In December the budget was assumed to be ousted by nearly 170 billion people in attendance that year. There is a critical time ahead for the state and for the public in the country, a bargain in the shadow of inflation, and a growing growth. In the context of inflation and growth, the highest levels have been reported. The secretary of finance spoke of the need to be careful with official financial planning and planning for the next year. We are honest, and we must be so, that the situation is, of course, imported. We are talking about a pandemic that needed to be reacted by costly measures and to make up for its economic effects. Attractive measures are expensive, some of which directly expand. That's a lot of concern. I ask, in view of the above words. Secretary of the budget, where it needs to be checked. The secretary of finance sees how to step on the brakes. What defenses will the secretary of finance build for the hen that we already stand in the shade?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u24	A respectable president. We review this and this position somewhat thoroughly in this publication, a financial program for the treatment of the council. When we presented a financial plan to the next five years, we said exactly this: "This is no longer a time for the government's money to be a source of encouragement to the economy. Those days are over. So, the Covid situation is over and that's why we're here saying that we have to accept a much lower real rate of government spending over the next few years than has been in the past few years. The winds have turned. We have some other way to apply the terms of government. It is not to be found in the decisions made by the Council Bank that bring great criticism to the policy we have set up here. What I heard, however, when I introduced this document here at the council was highly critical of not having much more expenses for the various lawsuits, and that's why I just had this answer, which I repeat here: it's not wise to have a large interest in government spending under these circumstances. That would be bad for inflation. It will eventually bite the homes, companies, and cause further prices and problems for us. In the circumstances that exist today, I rejoice over all the discussion of the role of government funds. In this direction, we are drawing a picture, as we are approaching the equation in the state's budget more and more, i.e. so is the holding of the state's budget, so that the remainder will be better each year, if we can say that, the urchin will be better each year. We need to recognize the latest inflation numbers that have developed since the making of this document. We need to consider this in the fall, and I have no wish, but right now we agree to use the terms of the government to master the inflation, support the Federal Bank on the actions it is in, and we've assigned it because it's realistic, and it's quite possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u25	President. V.E.G. The minister of finance spoke of the wind turning, and he spoke of the criticism of others here at the council. Rather, he has criticized the government for all these terms and the ideal period before them. The wealth did not depend on a pandemic, remember that. Does financial planning account for the turning of the winds into a financial minister? Does the plan take into account that the government is locked up by further banking because of its success in this? I ask, in view of the turning of the winds, how much? The minister of finance is going to reduce the increase in income and debt, how he will react to the situation, how he will take care of the role of the government himself in turning aside from that policy and the conclusion, not just the result of a pandemic, but a long time before him, and in fact, he has characterized this government partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u26	A respectable president. I've heard it very often here at the council Hall that limping on the government funds was a problem for the Covid epidemic. This is a big misunderstanding. A minimal balance is not a cause for concern while the wealth of the state is a growing economy. While we have high economic growth, our ratios are falling. It is not a problem for the State to deal with minor interest rates in big financial matters. However, all we need to ask ourselves is, " Am I protecting my crowns to the important projects? ' We've been protecting the crowns here to build up our community, including... in technological changes, in infrastructure, in new green solutions and in stronger health systems, in expensive medicines, in improved social services, and in many other ways. These are all tasks that really matter. In a financial program we have drawn up, the share ratios are falling, the consumption is falling as a proportion of land production and income will take over. This hangs very heavily on our having economic growth and under conditions for further growth. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we want to grow out of this situation. I'm not gonna say that we've made a once-in-a-day assessment for all over the next five years in this program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As further information is received, we will continue to reevaluate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u27	President. Business growth and the growth of tourists are both tremendously positive, building on the basis of our beautiful country's commercial situation. However, increased employment is accompanied by increased need for infrastructure services. Red light flashing widely, e.g. In transport, and could be taken down there for indications. During the past few years, there have been reports of how the British warship has been due to the failures of the ship, which have grown old and gone. After the only failure, where the ship was running for an entire night, the authorities decided that we would not be entertained much longer. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation then said that despite improving the prospects for transport in the southern part of the West, there is still an urgent need for ferry cruises across the British farms because of increases in heavy transport from fish farms west and increasing tourism as well as by traffic security. It is now more than a year since this event took place, and several smaller failures have taken place on the ship since then, and this has delayed a plan. The highest. wood secretary tells us what the situation today is, and how does this project focus? If you want to build a new ferry, it'll take a few years. In the meantime, it is not advisable for the current process, the Breafjörður Bust, to be in business. A ship must be found in the meantime that is worthy of the requested service, and it must be ensured that safety matters are in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and welcome him to the council. I haven't met him since he got here. We've been discussing this before, several times I even think, and I'm convinced that the senator knows quite completely how these matters are, since the Vega program has had an excellent meeting with most of the interests of the region over the past year. Information has also been given to the rural and national groups only recently. I agree with what. A senator, thanking him for repeating the situation, that in spite of enormous projects going on southbound to the West, there will be a certain threshold called the Cat's Throat. In spite of previous plans to destabilize in a way that has already arrived, a new estimate is that it is not possible because of the situation, in the Klett's neck, and it must be offered forward to this possibility. That's been won. The deal on Baldur has been extended, as I know it. A senator knows. At the same time, a ship has been searched. Hv. A senator says: It's just gonna have to find a ship. There's no sign of that ship. The search has been repeated. It's just the question of which way to go. One way would be that M.F. III, who was making good Western eyes in the long run, could sail there for a certain period of time while we have to build a new ferry that had new energy exchanges and things like that. You're right next door. A senator says it'll take years. That decision has to be made, and the General Assembly has to be authorized to be granted. [[The president calls.]] All of this has been accomplished progressively since this event - and indeed for him, for it is clear that this plan has changed, so there is a need for a ferry to the Breavfjord. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I also want to make clear what I mentioned in my talk that the need for transport to the British farm will remain urgent because transportation there will continue to be disloyal, as an example, the minister there named the Rock's Throat. In my opinion and many others it is also because there is a need for ferry, especially heavy transport from fish farms and natural travelers as well. I find it hard to believe there isn't a ship, I just have to say it. So there's not been a lot of search yet, and I encourage the minister to get his people to further travel in other areas to search for a ship. I don't believe you can find a ship. Old man's coach is in itself a perfectly nice ship, it's also old and tired, but if another ship needs to be found sooner, it may be an emergency landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u30	A respectable president. I don't know if we here in this room are the greatest experts in finding ships around the world. I know why. A senator knows this better than I do that sea areas are defined in different ways, and not all ships have the authority to sail in any ocean area. Thus, about British ground and the coasts of the island, it is not true that any ship can sail there. I am told by our leading experts, who have a global network of connections, that this ship has not been found in spite of repeated efforts, which, of course, had been a much more convenient solution for us, both inexpensive and temporary. But this will not save us from the fact that, in the long run, we need to build a new ship because of the energy exchange we want to go on to achieve our climate goals, to sail over the Britishafjörður in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u31	A respectable president. At this morning's board of directors and monitoring committees, a report of the Generalist for his surveillance call at the 32C emergency room on the Ringtrack was reviewed last September. I'm here for two things. On one hand, I wanted to complain about the inactivity of the government on mental health issues. In today's mental - health wards, ancient ways of helping people who have a mental disorder are available. That's when I wanted to ask the highest. In view of this report, the president of the Parliament's Committee on the matter of total legal review.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u32	At this moment, the president cannot answer that question, but he will obtain information about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u33	President. I'd like to come here in the same way as why. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I'd like to ask him why he didn't request any nominees at a special Senate Committee because of the total legal reviews that have been coming out. On the one hand, it is a report by Kingdom Review that shows that there is not much good about mental - health services in this country. It is not being followed as should be done, and this is just a very serious matter that does not seem to be as serious as it really is. However, there is an OPCAT report here on emergency mental status 32C. It reviews the terrible facts that there is not a law, a legal warrant for the pressures being used there. Government policies either eliminate or eliminate pressure in future policy treatment, but they are also trying to improve by legal action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to justify the findings presented in this General's report that are certainly not new. A similar report was published in 2019 that showed that mental centres are under pressure measures. People are free spirit. They'd love to be without law. Tracks are not clear. Rules are not clear. This is a very serious matter, and it is really very serious not to be taken in sooner. I call upon the government to recognize what the next steps are to prevent this and to reiterate my question about this Council Committee, which I understand should in effect have already begun the work of total legal reviews, which are certainly a major factor in setting these matters right and excommunication measures and so on mental health care. I reiterate my question to the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u35	The president has not been able to collect information in the minutes since the senator called attention, but he will be aware of how this situation is going to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u36	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the switch to income tax laws, social security laws and housing laws. The bill suggests counter measures to reduce the impact of inflation on the quality of living and buying the power of the most vulnerable groups of society. Vasculitis was reported to be 7.2% per year on April basis. She was 6.7% in March. Price increases in housing are still the main source of inflation, while housing-free prices were 5.3% in April and increased from 4.6% in March. Is this evidence that prices are on a broader basis? At that time food prices have increased by 5%, both domestic and foreign factors. The recent climate of Iceland's Summits is expected to increase in in inflation rates by more than 8% during the third quarter of the year. The U.S. Bank of Money has responded to inflation trends with increasing growth. The wealth of provisions has grown each year during the past decade. House savings rates are high, failure is low, and according to the Habitat biography study, the proportion of households with difficulty in making ends meet has never been lower than last year. In general, then, financial standings are strong, and their resistance to the effects of rising prices and higher growths is likely to develop. However, the position of households to deal with growth and prices is different and higher inflation is likely to reduce the quality of the living groups to considerably greater than others. Therefore, the bill is specifically directed to reduce the impact of inflation on the most vulnerable groups of society. In this context, tenants who receive housing, guardians who receive income-related child benefits and non-employers rely on social security benefits. It is suggested to improve social security benefits, pay special child benefits to those entitled to income - related child benefits, and increase housing benefits are part of the case. Thus, specific groups of individuals are provided in a specific way. I'd like to discuss the unique subject of the bill and, first, a special child improvement. Here's a suggestion that, in addition to the general child - rearing process, a special child's compensation should be paid for $20,000. with each child to those who receive established child support for stress paid in 2022. The children's benefits will be determined as a fixed sum per child who gains a home estate in this country during the 2021 income year and does not take the decrease in proportion to its residence time. Special child benefits do not include taxable income, and they do not reduce other income, such as government insurance benefits. In this way, special child benefits will not be equal in return to government fees or to treaties for government funds or rural society or to the underdeveloped provisions. In the case of a single intervention procedure, the tax is expected to address the child's improvement to individuals one month after the pressures of public pay or on July 1st, provided the bill has been approved. At the beginning of 2022, the paediatric control height was increased by 5.5-6.5.8%, the lower limit of decline by 8% and the upper limit of decline by 12%. These changes included 14 billion dollars. Children's budget, where high rates in pay would otherwise have resulted in a reduction of the benefits. In addition to general child reforms, the last two years, which was 1.6 billion, have also been paid a special child reformer. In 2021 and 3 billion years. in 2020. Second, the improvements in social and social security are put in the bill to improve social security and social benefits. The survival rate of sensibilities is increased by 4.6% by the last year according to the criteria for the budget of the current year, and the improvement in microenergy and rehabilitation services by 5.6%. In order to minimise the impact of inflation on the above groups, improvement is expected to be by 3% from June 1. and that the microenergy and rehabilitation criteria for transplant recipients due to specific contributions from biofuels, also increase by 3%. And then for housing improvements: Here is a suggestion that basic housing benefits increase by 10% from June 1. and that housing costs also increase by 3% in line with the expected improvement in social security. It is suggested that an increase of around 3% of the households range will be restored from January 1 this year to enable the completion and correction of housing improvements in accordance with the provision for housing improvements. According to the Homing House and Residents Agency, the size of rent markets in this country is equal to 32,000 apartments, with an estimated half of these being in the housing system. Then it is estimated that at least 70% of those who receive compensation have index-id contracts. In terms of evaluation of the impact of the bill, the cost of a government fund of a special split child's improvement from July 1, to a sum of 20,000 bucks, is estimated at 1.1 billion. The cost of improving social security and social services is around 3% from June 1. is estimated to be 3◯3.5 billion k. and 5,55.5 billion per year. If the bill is legal, basic housing benefits will rise by 10% from June 1. Free rent improvements increase by 3% in accordance with the improvement in social security. As I have mentioned earlier, an increase in home income benefits is expected to take effect again. This is because the final work and correction of housing could not be performed. The cost of the increase is some 600 million. K. in the current year, and about 1 billion years. A year's basis. Under the budget of the current year, no prior expenses were expected. On the other hand, only about one third of the year is correct and in itself enough funds are available for the whole year. If it turns out later in the year that the expenses of the case are going to exceed the financial resources, it will be considered to consider that legal funds will be transferred by the general financial reserve or that increased sources will be obtained in the bill for the next fall's budget to help face the effects of these higher prices for reforms in the bill. Then the impact of the bill on gender equality. Last year, a child's aid was paid the same as the one suggested today. Then, according to pressures 2021, a 62% of the children's improvement was involved in the women. It is estimated that the proportion will be similar this year to that of the bill. The global insurance system is more useful to women than men, since it is generally less money than public insurance pay for its forwards. In general, women are twice as many as men in the number of deserts, and they have fewer employment as well as lower income for elderly women than older men. The increase in housing benefits and their contribution markets are designed to support the most lucrative groups of tenants. More than that, homes are left without children. Among these, the proportion of women and men is somewhat equal, although women are more likely to be rented than men, as well as to be more likely to be men to rent social housing in rural and academic areas. On the other hand, looking to homes where there is one adult with children, the adult is in the vast majority of women. A respectable president. I think this case is urgent. I would most closely wish that the matter would get first in the council, during conquistancy. Although most of the 1st are involved, I feel that it has made it right here. Things have not yet been planned, and how grateful they were to be! Of course, we'd like to go to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but the same thing, I know, about the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Welfare, if there's something that the Committee needs to dig deeper into, they've all been offered and given more information. This is what the government feels is important to be done now in the light of recent inflation measurements and, in view of the growth rates of the Federal Bank. Of course, we will continue to follow very closely on the development of events. A great deal of work is being done to determine the status of a housing market. A special housing group has been working to deal with the fact that the index housing continues to rise and has not provided the end. Therefore, it is one of the key measures in the government to bring improvements in housing markets in cooperation with labour market partners, rural communities and others who have been involved in that work. I expect this work to be done at a meeting of the National Congress this week. I think it's tomorrow, if I remember correctly, and there'll be some suggestions that have been born in the past few weeks and months and that will test whether people who can influence their development have agreed on major action. This is significant because the main project is, of course, mastering the price of development. We discussed it here only in unsubstantiated inquiries just before that the government's affairs play a role in that subject. We cannot forget to talk only about reactions to those who suffer inflation. At the same time, we must have the ability to talk about measures that are likely to slow down the rise in prices in the country and get back into the standard we have set for that material, 2.5%, and stay within limits from it. A respectable president. That's what I'd like to suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u37	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for their history and are happy that this matter has entered the council. There are 9,000 people in Iceland without work, of whom 3,000 have been unemployed for more than 12 months. They are people whose income is equal to the loss of money, people who are just as vulnerable to inflation, just as vulnerable to higher food prices, increased cost of housing, and higher fuel prices, as are those who rely on pensions and pensions. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: Why are jobseekers left in this package of action? Why do jobseekers not receive direct increases, such as the rest of them?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u38	A respectable president. We may have been primarily looking to our country's professional level and the fact that unemployment has gone down, and this trend is quite positive. I can say from my own experience, since I was traveling around the country a few days ago, that the number of people being sought is outstanding. It's missing, for example. hundreds of people to work in an Oriental country, hundreds of people, and very difficult to recruit all the available jobs, including for housing problems in those areas. Nevertheless, there is a great demand for employment, and some measures are being made. It is very specific to discuss the development of unemployment in Iceland and the group in the situation at hand. A senator specifically mentioned, long - term work. There is concern that as many people are moving to the country to engage in advertised jobs, many are losing jobs that have just been given the same purpose for the country. We have, in my opinion, an abnormally high percentage of foreigners who are moving into long - term workaholics. As a result, we face many challenges, both in housing, in the social system, in the community, in the face of various pressures, this can lead to a variety of problems in education and elsewhere, through social services. It will have to be a reaction in some way. It is not good to think that people will move to the country to go to work, that soon after that they will make unemployment, and that new ones will move to the country instead of fill their old jobs. Sadly, we are seeing some indication that this is happening, so we must act. But the main answer to the question is, really, the level of employment and the demand for jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u39	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. Now it's just that, regardless of their professional status, it's been customary, at least In the past few years, on the legal sentence, unemployment benefits are accompanied by a percentage increase in social security benefits. Here we have a bill that centers on other threads to speed up the growth of pensions and microorganists and those who rely on rehabilitation money, to meet these people in a direct way because of inflation that has not been so much since 2010. No matter what these views about the level of employment and its development, I find it a little difficult to understand how it can be justified in the inflation process, as here it is to react to leaving this group behind without a job. So maybe I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what is the basis for this analysis? [[The president calls.]] What prompts a minister and a government to conclude that jobseekers need more direct support than poor people and pensioners do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u40	A respectable president. I'm going to make a comment to what's being said here, that your job insurance has always been the payer of public insurance. It's not. We have to remember, when we're talking about professional insurance, that it's part of an insurance system, job market rights that are fully funded by the financial insurance bill. It is far too common that we are discussing an increase in rights without discussing its necessary funding. What would happen if we were to raise our job insurance is that we should rightly increase our job insurance. If we don't do that, we'd have to pinch off the overall insurance money to finance our financial insurance budget. In fact, he has enjoyed being under the cover of government funds and in the custody of government funds for the past few years, where tens of millions of tails have been gathered on the fund. A few years ago, the workers wanted to take all this funds and would have sat down with the tens of millions of angles themselves. [[The president calls.]] I think a lot of people are happy because it hasn't happened. But I'm just going back to the professional stage as an answer to the question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u41	A respectable president. I just have to say right now, I don't know how to deal with this. I feel like the government is putting a smile patch on a wide-open wound, bleeding wounds. I can't see how this is going to work for those who're supposed to get this. Yes, they thank you for every cent. They need every cent. I was at a meeting with the Corporate Community last night, group of men. There it was clear that this increase, a 3% increase, returns 8,000 K. To the worst, 5,000 bucks. By taxes. At the same time, a person with exactly this income pointed out 219,000 dollars. So, I'm telling you, he's getting 17,000 bucks. increase in rent time. That's the latest one, 17,000 bucks. increase. If we talk about this 5,000 bucks. $12,000. left. Then there's an increase in food. How in God's name is the greatest. A minister suggests that these individuals should be able to pay rent? He speaks of power of riches. Can he reveal me: " What is the greatest power of the people whom I am talking about? Tells you the highest. Ministers really that these individuals received greater power to buy? And does he think that by installing these 3%, this group gets some kind of money?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u42	A respectable president. There are isolated cases, but if we look at the numbers back in time, we will have clear conclusions in this subject, i.e. the financial benefits of social security leaped over the years since 2015, and in particular was the case with a pensioner. However, for disability, there was a number of commercial growths, and I was inducing it back to about the past year, an increase in the benefits of micropigs increased by 5.6%. Now we're talking about an extra raise on top of it. Of course, we need to ask ourselves, " Is it really enough in the light of the inflation tests that we now have to maintain a minimum power of purchase or see it grow? ' It can be very personal whether it will work, and a variety of examples would need to be calculated to determine that. But it's at least, on the part of the government, an intervention that we haven't been able to get used to in this early because of the inflation analysis and immediately respond with a law bill to improve the position of those who are earn less money. I'm going to get to the point where the disability - saving system is about 100 billion systems. 100 billion each year, 100 billion. It's about 10% of all the government funds, so we're setting priorities for making good with those who need to rely on this system. We have been doing so on a larger scale each year and have been following a collective pay contract, so financial gain has grown tremendously. I'd just be glad to get in the discussion about how much we've been able to raise the level of money. This does not make it so today that we have eyes on those who have mentioned between their hands. We're correcting their share.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I can say that the worst part of this system has no money. It was very clear at this conference yesterday. The gift is none, it's in a minus. But when it comes to that fact, I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there something more to compare with this group by personal payment or in other ways to check their status? This group has already cut down on food, drug costs, and medical services, as I received information about yesterday, can no longer afford to pay for physical therapy, cannot afford to go to specialists. This group has cut everything off by Covid and now because of the inflation. Is there any monopoly for this group, taxes, and inadequacies?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u44	A respectable president. We are here to present actions immediately. In the long term, I would like to refer only to the work that the Minister of Social Affairs has had in the past semester. I have high hopes that we will be able to introduce reforms of the insurance system for the future losses that would include a certain system change that should benefit everyone and that we would severely reduce the declines in the system in order to open up the possibility of increasing the selection of disability at another level of opportunity for such. It has to be acknowledged that for those with limited abilities, the system is built today with far too many obstacles and little motivations. There are too many dollars that people earn down to die when rights decline in the system. This is, I think, the big progress we're waiting to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u45	Madam President. This is an action to reduce the impact of inflation on the vitality of society's most vulnerable groups by raising housing costs by 10% but not since the beginning of 2018. At the same time, rent has increased by 20%. A special child reformer, that $20,000 will be paid out on July 1. Those who accept improvement from the social security system get an increase of 3% on June 1. This increase of 3%, though elevated, will not increase the level of precipitating this group because the inflation has already eaten the rise. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Did it ever be possible to have those 3% again, like the mortgage? Similarly, if only they could not have been paid the worst, as was the case in Denmark, they now receive a pension paid at 90,000 bucks.?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u46	A respectable president. It's simply not right to overpower it in this way that the purchase power of the disability donor will not improve at this increase. Of course, the increase will improve him. You can't argue about that. Perhaps you might ask, " Do the increases that took place during the years, up to 5%, and then this increase, in terms of prices? ' To answer that, we need to examine the position of different groups. I traced this point to 5.3% in April and 4.6% in March when inflation without housing. When we look at the increases that have taken place since New Year's Eve and are going through it again, I would think, in the light of these figures, that it is absolutely clear that we are increasing the potential of those who are not dealing with the indexes, which are being measured for housing development. That should be indistinguishable. It is extremely difficult to have a discussion if we cannot agree to use measured sizes as the basis for the discussion. I, however, have full respect for the fact that some people do not feel that it is enough, and of course we would like to do more. We're taking 10% of all the government funds from this category, 100 billion a year for disability, to stand with those who are unable to save themselves, to have impaired working ability, to suffer tragedy, to suffer accidents, to be sick, to cope with physical arks, or to suffer mental illness, etc. All too often, it is suggested that the entire group live in the same situation. It's just not like that at all. I encourage all who are really interested in studying the status of those who rely on social security benefits to enter the tr.is and enter different criteria into the calculator and then see how different people's situation can be and how the system compares with the different positions of different individuals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u47	Madam President. I hear you, chief. Minister, we don't agree. I just feel like it's not done enough. I'd still like to reiterate that I'm supporting the bill, but it's just not enough. We're here to extend the worst-case dingle damages, and then I'm referring to this 3% rise in June. Of course, we know that the group accepting compensation is different. But we also know that the ranks outside of relief agencies are increasing, and I just wanted to encourage the highest. A minister to consider a single payment to this group, as has been done elsewhere. We are rich, and we are not to accept poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u48	A respectable president. Yes, we've increased now in six months, if this bill is realized, this improvement, about 8.6% from the years, 5.6% plus 3%. These are considerable increases. They may not always come to a good degree. They do not come about merely by the will and purpose of the government to do better. In part, and it's only official, we're dealing with inflation development. Therefore, I feel that it is so important that we also meet for measures to cope with the inflation trend and to master the cost of development in our country. For a long time, we can discuss how difficult people in the country are, and many will need help, even food. But if we use public data, the latest data will tell us that the situation has never been better than today, in 2021. It is the Haust lab biography study, which says these groups are the driving force. A senator fights for, and I respect that, has never been as few in Icelandic society as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u49	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in social security law, an objection to inflation. V.E.G. Secretary of finance asked earlier: Why don't you get on TR calculator and figure it out? Why would I go on that calculator and figure this out? I lived in this system, and I can tell that I'm going into this calculator on a regular basis and I calculated. No matter how many times I go in there and how much I figure, the worst put it as bad, however many times I figure it out. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the buying power of a pensioner as if it were a full-scale solution. It's not. We know, and I've never denied, that there's a group within this system that's good. It's great, and we should celebrate. But we should not use that group to beat those who are not good at it. It is wrong to try to convince people that those who get paid in 219,000 will pay. In a month - that was what the person showed us at the Institute of Destiny yesterday, and what hit me most was where that woman lived. Because she was living in a trailer, she did not receive household chores because she had not been fasting home. Can you imagine, she had no way of renting on the market and had no social housing? She was punished, not only for falling out of this but also because she was punished, her system said to her: "If you're alone and you have the right to pay rent, you're not going to get them because you don't have an address. We're running into this all over the system. Unfortunately, these are just facts. We must watch it, too, when it's the highest. According to a minister, there was an overall 8.6% increase when this came in. He has to consider where we're coming from. We're coming out of a Covid period where this group has become extremely tight, and especially the worst. The older citizens did not receive a cent to help during the entire Covid period, whether they were good or not, and they did not even try to help those who were the worst in that system. Who are the worst in this regard? Yes, there are women because they have a much lower pension. The people we are discussing are people with no quality of life. It falls, for example. not the thought of going to the theatre. But what may be more painful is that they cannot even afford to go to physical therapists anymore or to a psychiatrist or a psychologist. They can't afford it. It's so expensive. Today, almost 200 people in Iceland are underreported in nursing homes. We're talking about cost, numbers. We need to realize that this system we've already created causes enormous problems because they can't figure it out in any way, when they get any income, where they make it. Now we're putting on this fat-ass income and trying to stop them from going chain-linking all over the system. But it is quite clear that we will never prevent it except in one way, and that is by bringing in a tax and poor income, so that they are not taxable, don't go into the account of the taxpayer as a taxpayer's income. We'll see, for example. that only 109,000 will be obtained by people with impaired ability. At the same time as senior citizens, they have 200,000 dollars. Just an injustice like that shows what we're doing. We have received an additional charge from a specialist doctor, now in general, a thousand thousand thousand. An additional charge for physical therapists was 5003/4,1,000 kroners. But it has now reached 1,500 o'clock. If we just look at a person who needs physical therapy twice a week, it's an extra of 3,000 bucks, or $12,000. per month. Let us put it in context of these 5,000 cells. ... afterthe tax that's the raise here. Let us see, too, in the context of 17,000 times. The rent raise, and put it in context of what is at the highest level. Secretary of finance said about 8.6%. It's just pennies. It's all gone. What are these people supposed to do? These extra expenses weigh on all those in need of service, including those who are disabled, long - suffering, as well as low - paying workers. Of course, cost is increasing as the services are used more by physical therapists, so they pay much more than those who need less service. Sick people have reduced their use of the ministry, and a large group refuses to do so. There will be serious health damage to them as well as additional health pressures, requiring hospitalisation. One person told me: I can't afford therapy anymore. As a result, he could no longer work part - time. And what are the consequences? Yes, he's going into the most expensive emergency, going to the hospital. This is not supposed to happen. It's called saving the money and throwing away the crown. In this ugly game, financial violence is used by kicking sick people. In front of their family and even young children, there is spiritual and physical harm. Poor people should never have to wait for righteousness, but some wait all their life for it and never will. The government is now in position to correct this ongoing injustice. You are preparing microsurgents, which in no way are available for their advancement, and therefore sentence them for very few. A person who has to decide whether to abstain from food or even to buy something for himself or his children is a disgrace to you, that sick people cannot afford physical therapy or psychological services, possibly increasing their quality of life, and even making it work, is a ridiculous waste of the government's quality of life and resources. Sick people who have no knife or spoon and cannot engage in work to improve their quality of life and their children's quality of life and not buy life - sustaining drugs, on which human rights are grossly broken. That leads to the great TR's Day of Flammation and Frightening. All taxable income, in fact, reduces the production of the micromask. The eagle becomes more debt to the state's budget and has to use some of the income to pay off the debts in the TR. The mental and physical health of sick people and pension workers have deteriorated dramatically. Debts have grown, worries have grown, and anxieties have reached the highest. After the chain damages and taxes, there are only 20% of the pay for work if the person is lucky, as shown at the Organization's Conference yesterday. This equals more than 80% tax. Let's put it in context of the fact that we have a high income tax of 47%. Who wants to pay 80% taxes in the form of taxes and impairment and even more? It was observed that even over 100% of people, those who are the worst, can't calculate whether they pay to take that strength or to earn it. It can be very bad when the person may be taking over 20,000 bucks. in some kind of strength and maybe end up at 23,000 bucks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It tells itself that there is something wrong with a system that can offer that reality. Business compensation, minimum wage, and artist's wage are higher than disability pay, and that's cool. Unemployment is nothing to shout, not minimum wage, but the lowest disability pay is 100,000 k. under minimum pay, except for the tax pay paid by those who live in poverty and in desperate need of pay. Most of us don't have to work on minimum wage in the long term. It's not the same story with disability payments that are much lower and the difference always increases. Iceland is on a permanent world record in the vandals of disability. Yeah, definitely a world record. You have tried to explain these declines to the North countries, and it is absolutely hopeless to get them to understand what is going on. All offers promised to change this system for the last election. This was clearly evident by the highest. Minister of society and employment yesterday that it is the will to change this system in the fall. However, it was also observed, and in part has occurred in the highest part. Secretary of finance, that when changing this system in the fall, it should be changed, but no money should be put into this system. V.E.G. The social and workforce minister was specifically asked yesterday for an increase in basic progress, whether any increase would be included in this review. No, there will not be an increase, but impairment will be reduced, and those who have experienced the greatest degree of impairment may have some elevation. You're wondering how wrong this is. Why, if we are reevaluating a system like this, do we not start to calculate the minimum amount of individual progress or the right contribution to a decent life? V.E.G. A minister of finance may be able to help us understand why the government after government, and also his government, has not gone into that business. I'm quite aware of why that is. That's because that number would be at least 100,000 bucks. or even 200,000 k. higher than the number being paid today. They also need to take part in dealing with their personal discounts. I can't understand the conclusion that those who are getting 220,000 bucks, including, if they're paying $30,000. I'll tax you. True, it is. V.E.G. A minister would be quick to say that it would be a dead end, but it doesn't matter, an answer or a tax to the State or to the local community, it's just a tax to these people. They're people who don't have knives and spoons. I have asked many of these individuals whether they would rather be proud to pay taxes or to receive those payments. It has been said that these people must pay taxes because they are humiliating not paying taxes. It's not. Mr President, I'd like to say right away, "I'd like those payments." I don't care if I have to pay taxes or not. If I got that money, it'd help me right away. There is something serious about the system that we have to tax those who have no means of supporting themselves. This system needs to be completely stocked up. Unfortunately, I am most afraid that if this system is to jump up solely on the grounds that the current government is going to do, by setting nothing into the system, not anything, but only taking over the decline, it will also help a certain group, but it will also cause that a large group will continue to live under the circumstances of not having a knife and spoon. We also have this group, which we must not forget, the worst of all, who suffered the failure of the sheephouse that has not been corrected, has been held hostage for 13 years in court for six years. These people are so bad that you can't even imagine what the situation is like from day to day. But the government shows black and white that she's not going to correct it back in time, on the contrary, she's just going to set things right for four years. This shows what forms of financial violence are being used by these people. Also, when the government allowed them to take out their special savings but forgot to say where to pick up the tax and rob all the special savings back from the people, trying to save them, they are not able to do so. This just shows that the government is not thinking about this group. [[The president calls.]] This is the group with wide banks. This is the government - controlled group that uses financial violence without hesitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u50	A respectable president. Of course, it is those who have little materially that these things are not good enough and that we must do better. This is especially true of groups who are unable or unable to save themselves. The worst is when they can save themselves, but, unfortunately, the systems are built, so all are motivated to do so. But all these big words must follow practical suggestions. In order to live up to it. In fact, a senator is calling for, which is an incursion of income to $300,000. and benefits that are far beyond what we're discussing here that our system would have to cost absolutely large amounts of money. I'm not even going to get into how bad it was only in terms of government politics. I'm just going to point out that when 10% of the total state's income is in this category and the ideas that are tore up easy would probably cost another 100 billion every year for the rest of the year, on the balance side. Then they can debate how much money would come back through the economy and what the final cost of the state would be, but we're talking about this kind of money. It is just that no country in the world has such a generous support system for disability, or other social security systems, that people are generally better off than those who come to work from morning to night.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance the counter. I gave him a clear answer. If we were to get together and make sure the person had $300,000. I mean, tax and inadequacies, we're in the Gang of the People with a solution. We can, for example. The tax payment from a pension fund. We can change the personal discount system so that the highest are not to receive a personal discount. We can change this system, and the benefits would be great. Just think of the benefits of being able to live with dignity, that people can go to doctors if they need them, that people can go to physical therapy. You're talking about changing the system and trying to get people to work. Last night, at the Micro-Screat Coalition, statistics were set up. A woman came up and showed black in white that she tried to work, she worked, and she won, and she had been working for two years. Do you know what the reimbursement required of insurance agencies was? 1,300,000 k. When she started to calculate the problem to the end, she found that at the cost of going to work and working, she was in a loss. It's not worth it. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: How in the world can you have such a system, how can you possibly defend such a system, and why in the world do you not do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u52	A respectable president. I've been discussing it here today that the big change we need to achieve is a system modification of this insurance system. We may not have been discussing it here. We've been discussing the idea of putting an extra 100 billion into the system. A senator always speaks for and for his party. I'm just trying to keep it up here because I think it's completely unrealistic, and I'm not supposed to create expectations that it's easy to do. To talk about raising taxes on the highest income in the country and finding 100 billion is, of course, just out of the blue, completely out of control. That is totally unrealistic. Absolutely everything. All right. If you want to increase taxes on earning a living, you just have to realize what they'd bring back to the overexploitable ideas that are being introduced here. This would be very limited in the context of the figures being meant. Let me point out that we live in a country where income is the greatest in the world, it shows repeated measurements. Besides, there is probably no greater social mobility in the world than there is in Iceland. This can be seen fine in our life's race during the history of income, how immensely social events are measured in Iceland since 1991. Although there are no realistic comparisons from other sources, they have come as a surprise. The discussion continues on how we can do better. I say that its key measures are to maintain power in the economy, to continue a valuable creation, to increase production so that a government fund is well equipped to support those who need it. And then these improvements in the system need to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u53	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance the counter. I now deny that I said there was a lot of taxes on high-payers and I should pay some $100 billion, that wasn't my word. I pointed out that there is no need for personal discount. [[Up front.]] It's not up to 100 billion, far away. A person who earns 3 million dollars, what's his personal discount? The small amount is that it doesn't matter, no matter. I'm sure if the person could give it up, so that someone else didn't have to line up after meals, could get medical care, or buy some medicine, he would do it. I would say, in this chair, with my salary here at the council: though a personal discount would disappear from me, and if it were possible to garterate that he would improve the terms of the worst, I would gladly give it to him. You see, that's what's wrong. We can't always be saying that people out there don't want anything. People out there want to know that nobody in Iceland needs to live in a lot of money. It is shameful for us to have people waiting in line for food, that is not to happen. They always say we're such a rich people, and there's a really small disconcerting and other things. But there's a group, topv. The minister of finance has also repeatedly said that there is a small group in that position. V.E.G. A year after year, a minister of finance comes up and says: "It's a small group in this position. But he won't change it. Why not? Why not take that stand and take that small group out? It is clear that we in our government position will keep ourselves busy doing so in 24 hours, making sure that this poorest group of people in the country will be pulled out of very poor condition, and will remain out of poverty, as well as in a way that they can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u54	A respectable president. Thank you for what's done well. While it certainly is good that the government is taking action, the problem facing the home is larger than it is enough to do. May 9th. Send the Internal Affairs Agency a challenge or appeal to Iceland's government to protect their homes at the time we look at. The letter of the challenge was: To the extent that no one loses their home because of inflation and growth, the challenge was: ▪ Make sure that no one loses their home because of inflation and growth. The knowledge and knowledge of what happened after the last collapse are no greater than those of the household's Economic Organization, and it is time for governments to pay attention when they speak. With President's permission, I'm going to read up their challenge here because there are people in this room who need to hear: By the end of the last week, the government introduced an action to the worst of all because of the inflation now and the predictable growth of banks. At the same time, she made a decision not to take any action for those who need to pay off the mortgages. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the World Health Organization has called for protection from homes; no one loses his home because of the results of a pandemic. The result of war in Ukraine is much the same today. Although homes' own financial status has certainly improved with increasing real estate prices, their provisions have not increased. I don't have any bills on my property. Clearly, many homes are facing financial difficulties in the months that will come, when the financial burden of loans will rise by tens of thousands. A domestic market has been difficult, so many have been forced to press the bow high in order to get a roof over their heads. The domestic economists feel that now is the time for the government to make a political decision that no one should lose his home in the anticipated condition of the Iceland State government to issue its declaration. Where there's a will, there's a road. The government has made a conscious decision to put interest in the homes of the country's population, expecting them to produce the desired results. That hope can prove costly to thousands of households, and in this regard it can be noted that in most homes, children who, under the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, have the right to live in a secure home. The domestic interest groups remind us that tens of thousands lost their homes in the wake of the 2008 collapse of the bank. Such calamities are never to be repeated. We ask the government of Iceland to state that the families that cannot live under the rising load of payment for the coming months will not lose their homes but will seek all ways to help them out of these temporary difficulties so that they can rise again once again to the sun. The domestic emissary organisation has more and more knowledge than any person or institution in Iceland has the consequences of the collapse for homes and individuals along with what might have been done well and what might have been done, to prevent tens of thousands of household losses. The organization offers knowledge and assistance in the implementation of pathways that could be used to ensure that no one will lose his home because of the consequences of outside circumstances and events beyond their control. By means of an active conversation by governments, creditors, and consumers, you can arrange for the knots, solidarities, and social responsibilities that are needed. If Iceland is to be the land of opportunity, it must be given the homes a chance to thrive. The public is not feeding for the financial system! So many were words. As chairman of the 2017 National Institutes of Habitats, and one of the thousands who lost their homes after the collapse, these matters are close to me and touch my heart, so that my words are not strong. It was at least 10,000 families who lost their homes in forced halls, directly attributable to collapse. Moreover, those who lost their homes because of bankruptcy or some form of financial contracts are not to be overlooked. There are no numbers of them, but based on their experiences and knowledge over the past few years, it is safe to assume that they were at least family members. as many or 10,000. But because there are no confirmed numbers over it, and the interest organization never puts anything out that they can't 100%, we've doubled that number to 5,000 homes. That's why we've talked about 15,000 families losing their homes after their last collapse and keeping that number. The economic organizations know better than most of the despair that comes with this position, the inadequacy, the rage, and the giving that often followed. in recent years, there is a marked increase in coldness, which has even resulted in disability. I know all these feelings myself, and I don't wish anyone to go through what I went through all the way through in November 2019 when my wife and I finished our business. So I am eager to prevent anything like this from repeating myself. You see, it's not just a matter of economics, it's a matter of public health. Without a doubt, our three - year - old would agree that prolonged anxiety, anxiety, and stress can have a long - term effect on one's health. We, who have either been through the threats of domestic loss and then lost our home or who have been dealing with those who have gone through this miserable, difficult process, know how extreme pressures come upon them, and that many have already lost their health because of it. There are difficulties ahead and probably no opportunities to stop them altogether. Still, there are limits to the effects of anxiety. Is it not to ease anxiety over the families of the country enough reason for the government to take action? Just the small operation of providing individuals and families with the assurance that family loss is not imminent would be of utmost importance. As a community, can we not agree that it is not any better if the banks begin to care for families that cannot be granted because of unprecedented circumstances that they are not responsible for? I have said it for many years, and I keep it, that with a different priorities no one had to lose his home after a crash. If the interest of the households and smaller companies and not the financial market had been first considered, then the decision would have been different, and the outcome would not have been the case. The situation today is quite different from the 2008 collapse of the bank, but it is more important than tears that the government is reluctant to cause the same results to happen to its homes. On April 17, 2020, over two years ago, Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR, wrote an article comparing the heading: 'Are we all in the same boat?' . It says, by permission of the President: But when everything is over, will we all be in the same boat? Will we all be in the same boat when the government will have finished writing our last check of action? The way we rise up out of the challenges ahead depends on what we do today, and that is why the priorities of the governments and their priorities are of utmost importance. Will the government assign lifebelts and space to the lifeboat, or will the government place the nightmares in a weak hope that the banks will save them from drowning? Or do they perhaps get the same spit - out of - the - sputum, and the last, as indicated by the words of the prime minister? After the collapse, the financial system and its contribution were placed in full priority at the cost of their homes and the public in the country. The shocking story will not be traced here this time, but it is worth considering that the business that went as unwary as it really is in the years before a crash will then have made a tremendous profit in everything, or nearly 700 thousand million. - That was two years ago. ▪ The estimated 15,000 homes in their rapture outside all the other difficulties people went through because of the wrong prerogatives of the government. It may be wondered that since the premium was this, when the guilt of the financial companies in what happened was evident, what the issue of government will already be when it is no cause for the situation rather than that of other members of society. Undeniably, the track is frightened, and it is clear that what happened after a crash must not be repeated at all! The banks are supposed to be in the same boat as the rest of us. The current government is under obligation to protect homes and to put their interests ahead of financial interests. This has been predictable all this time. We should never have gotten into this position. In this country, things are completely different from those of other countries. In Britain the inflation is such as We're up to 9% and the British money bank is expected to increase interest soon. But when their inflation was 7.8%, the British money bank increased the control rate from 0.75 percent to 1%, by 0.25 percentage points, and it is likely to result in an increase of 0.25 percentage points in the coming days, to 1.25% in the UK. This is in no way comparable to the horror offered by Icelandic homes. Britain is growing, but not in the same way as here. Then growth and inflation abroad are not directly affected by the head seat of the housing bar and are not added to the height of the interest below. Are we really smarter than everyone else when we add spells to a household in the way that is now taking place? Or are we just palaces under the financial companies? The mortgage's real estate accounts are about 2,200 billion. As a result, 1% increase in driving growth brings more than 22 billion loans per year. And what do we do about it? While the banks are making money, the state is bleeding in return with rent payments, and there's no doubt on the rise in growth. In this situation, however, people must be helped, given. But why not simply lower the interest rate? Or do people simply ask that the banks bring back the decrease in interest of interest rates that only came to a small extent? Are the banks in the same boat as we do, or are they always going to make money? Yeah, who's going to pay for stability? The rise in the pay load of tens of thousands per month is in the maps. We watched the treatment of banks in the homes of the last crash, and there was no mercy. Although teaching the Bible was a total failure, they did not know how to be ashamed but followed hardly after their own victims. And now we're going back to the sacrifice of the houses for the so - called stability. But for whom is it stable when homes are sacrificed to him? Is that the stability of capital owners? Are we looking for the banks to meet the demands of interest? We need to ask ourselves, " How does a family with perhaps 3,000,500,000 bucks? ' for a month's appointment, at a dose of 25 to 40 thousand. an increase that will be added to the loans of many only due to one percentage increase in the main growths of the Federal Bank. And let us note that further growth increases are predictable. In a tens of thousands of rent - rent increases are imminent. Clearly, an announcement of government action on their behalf will not be enough. And what happens to tenants who do not live under rising rents? Where will they live? Is it justified to deprive hundreds or thousands of families of their families of stability? Is home justified in paying for stability? Is it justified to demand such sacrifices? It is obvious that 3% of an improvement that generally does not reach 300,000 is 5,500,000. a month before taxes, and that is by no means enough, and 20,000 child reforms are hardly in the nose of cats in the present condition. House rent payments will certainly help those on the rent market, but it is only from the incomeiest microchip they will not cause. I ask the government to give it up that no one will lose their home in the harsh conditions that are predictable and are caused by circumstances that have little or no effect on a normal home. I want to point the top, too. The secretary of finance is to say that this does not involve negotiations, as he claimed in unsupervised inquiries earlier. I point out that there is no equal between parties, and if there is any intervention in contracts, it is the one-sided decision for interest growth that always comes directly with increased curses on consumers while growing numbers do so only to a small extent. Where is the equal in this and can it really be spoken of as an intervention in agreement when the situation is as great as it really is? It cannot be justified to deprive hundreds or thousands of families of their families of stability. It is not justified that some pay for stability in their home and not justified in requiring such sacrifices. It is human right to have a home, and children have the right to live in a secure home. The government needs to show political courage and protect the homes. She must make a political decision and state that no one will lose his home in the state that is predictable for a while. A number of people are failing to make ends meet in our country, and now a number of homes are running fast. They are not people who have built a doorway over their shoulders but who have been able to get a roof over their heads. Living and families should not be pawned at the table of wealthy people in feeding, yet this is true of all too many. It is human right to have a home, and children have the right to live in a secure home. The government needs to show political courage and remove the homes from the capital. She must make a political decision and state that no one will lose his home in the state that is predictable for a while. Only in this way will we secure the houses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u55	A respectable president. Here we will discuss counter measures due to inflation that will cost the state budget of about five billion dollars. This year. In a bill to raise funds, which is now being taken care of. The budget is not expected to change the budget despite a much more difficult situation than when the budget was approved for a New Year's Day. The challenge is to fund from reserves, according to the bill that we now address, for which there was no reason to do anything. Nowhere was there a Senate case associated with the economic situation of the government's Constitution long after spring, despite repeated calls for action, including from us in the United States. At that time, when inflation had become 7.2%, the country's election was just under control. After six months of high inflation, specific actions on a table were observed at the highest level. Governments, and now it's a top priority, in the highest esteem. Secretary of the budget, come early. At the beginning of the week, reports of continued expansion of the housing market were received another year, where home markets increase by tens of percent each year. Better late than never, and better than nothing, I say these actions, but the reaction is disappointing in my opinion, even though I'm delighted, for certainly the government will admit at least Finally the problem. Our neighbors have presented each pack of measures after another, but we have seen the same delay as it was two years ago in a pandemic. Inflation is a result of government economic actions that focused on general support by money policy instead of quick and reliable action during a pandemic season. The same government is now cutting down 2 billion dollars. in the general housing system, the public housing system, according to financial contributions. This is despite the fact that the housing team is the main reason for inflation and in spite of the supreme court order. Industrial Minister for a massive government structure in the years to come. Whatever may be the result of a maximum housing group. The secretary of finance referred to earlier, when there is no money for that action in the current government financial programme. Either there's no distinction or the highest. Enforcement ministers have simply limited access to economic policies controlled by one category. A respectable president. It is difficult to take the right and well - timeed economic action when economicism is vague and random. Therefore, we will take a cutback on housing and repairs when it is necessary to do so. That is why it is said that there are repeated attacks on government action that contributes to the theft of the largest earners in the country. The government operates right political in financial matters, with the highest levels. The minister of finance stresses selling property and paying taxes as much as possible, but at times it corrects socialism when the public is persecuted. The basic policy is controlled by the Independence Party, but the left green patches are in between, allowing the face to escape for a corner for a little while. Then, with a spirit of cooperation, progress flows along. This chance - finding policy cost us enormous amounts of money, since there is no harmony in the way the economic situation in the country is controlled. It takes too long to react when there are situations requiring a rapid response from the government, whether it is a pandemic or inflation, lost opportunities, increased pressure, and dissatisfaction that may result in excessive exposure to pay requirements and later costs. When this is added to the investment that has taken place in our welfare system in the past decade, under the Independence Party in cooperation with the Green - Left over and over again, it is difficult to see that we can meet the insuficiency of government. The side of the board is broken and unable to take real action to correct agglutination in our welfare system after cutback, creating pressure to attack short - term animals. Our welfare system, a respectable president, has to be reinvented and prevented, as we now see in a real well-being government. The problem, however, is that the government's ability to keep the welfare system going has been undermined. The wealth as a share of land production will be the lowest in the century at the end of this terms, according to the financial program of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The numbers speak for themselves. Tens of billions have been deliberately removed from the financial foundation of the government during the past few years without any conflicting income. These are not my opinion, these are facts that may include... is expressed in the opinion of a financial body, which has just covered the 30 to 40 billion dollars. which have been taken out of the state budget without counterimbursement. V.E.G. The government is constantly responsible for the cost of government or inflation, the control of most outside factors. The response is to place a wealth of government in an even tighter straitjacket to exasperate dissatisfaction among those who work in our welfare systems and among those who make use of the ministry. This is in order to meet the demands of those who are actually in charge of income management against a trust fund. The cycle of activity is increasing, and no one understands why dissatisfaction and systems become more fragile, according to the highest level. Secretary of finance that the government has a wise economy, and under it the presidents of other administrations will be unafraid. There is no real responsibility here, no offence, no courage to influence the basic problem, only the policy of keeping state funds in check and reducing the share of state funds, and half-group by the fifth list today. The rest of the classes are trying to save the situation from time to time with instant solutions. It's the most important thing to see how it works. The government speaks of the counterweight measures we are considering today, actions presented in the leading of rural elections as specific measures that have not been financed but are said to be financed by reserves that can easily be quickly emptied by existing inflation conditions. We were the last ones this morning. The budget board, discussing with the secretary of finance, which found that a large part of the reason for the development of existing financial and financial laws is for the use of inflation foam on the income side. So there is no way to assume that these reserves will be sufficient for these so - called specific measures. But the fact is that most of the packages mentioned here are turning toward improving the scarcity and pensional life spans. It is legal to protect this group from inflation. It is clearly stated in the 69th chapter of the verse. set the social security bill to ensure that the amount of the social security system is associated with pay development or inflation if it is higher. And the calculations that were carried out here by the Supreme Court. The minister of finance, who was proud that this 3% was making up for inflation - the fact is that this further 3% in the second six months of the year plus this consideration, 5.6% of those who arrived for the year puts us in place that the increase for this group, which cannot go to strike and fight for their rights, is 7.1% in the year. And what did the Secret Bank tell the other day about antiphrase predictions for the year? Yes, it's 7.4%, it's just being under law, and there's no specific or newsworthy about going to the law and respecting the rights of people in a welfare community, except perhaps in a government where the right side of economics is so great that they need a left category just to make sure that the foundationors of our welfare system are respected, that they are actually going to the law. In fact, it took six months to pressure. And then this is how it turned out in the leading of rural elections. A respectable president. Government aims are not to balance government interests. This is not the goal that is now being heard so far across the governments. They all agree, apparently, to be the objective of the government. The objective of the government is to serve the people of the land and to protect society. How we achieve this aim in a sustainable and economic equilibrium, then turn toward the tools and tools we use, growth stage, charges, taxation, the income-side which is completely broken. The tools and tools available must be used to achieve the chief objective of the government to serve the public, thus building the basis for which all is growing, including the rest of the human family. The private sector as the highest. The minister of finance is so much concerned about the value of social wealth. You see, the system works both in both directions and the crisis that now controls the economy, and has established economic policies in the back space of inactivity, so it will not only take the well - being of people, but also the high - quality sector of the community that is always being talked about, in the private sector, which is certainly an enormously important one. This is the vicious circle where the government has entered and must be breached. A respectable president. These counter-improvement measures, although not sufficient, are necessary. However, the need for such action will only increase in current government, for there is no evidence to address the basic problem of government management. This was made clear in a meeting of financial councils with difficulty. The legal committee this morning. This is made clear in the official review of the financial Council, where there is a systematic tail on the funds, since the income base we can use to provide the necessary legal services has been reduced. We're looking at a smiling side of income, a lack of interference in a housing market, and a general lack of economic policy that stains any action on the welfare field. This situation creates the very conditions that are now pressing on random and costly actions. Of course, little else can be done but to agree with and be happy that something is done, even if it is little. But this is only the beginning if the government continues to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u56	A respectable president. Since February, we in the United States have called for counter measures to protect vulnerable groups from rising inflation and rising interest levels. I'm glad the government is finally taking one step in that direction. Vasculitis was 6.7% in March and 7.2% per year on April basis. The Bank of Economics predicts that the index price will increase by 0.9% this month, thus increasing to 7.7% in May. In accordance with current financial issues, inflation is expected to increase to over 8% during the third quarter of this year. The main driving force of inflation is still a quick - moving price for housing following the driving of management interest in the pandemic, the relief of restrictions from the banking system, and hundreds of billions of loans into the housing market. A twelve - month rise in apartment prices is now 22.3%, and 22.2% in March, and the real population of apartments has never been measured as much as we do today if we examine the trends since the turn of the century, i.e. has never been more expensive in comparison with another product price. At the top of these housing positions, the introduced rise, higher fuel prices, higher food prices, and when all of this comes together, we see inflation that has not been determined further since 2010. No one should be surprised to learn that the late bat responds to this position by making a keen interest. Now in May, the speed of control was increased by one percentage, standing at 3.75%, and could increase further according to the declarations of the money policy committee. A operating agency predicts that there may be a minimum of 49,700 loans at the burden of unfavourable loans. every 10 million. K. borrowing when the banks have responded to promotions, but for over a year, the payload was about 37,300 bucks. per 10 million. For a home of 40 million dollars. It's a $50,000 loan. cost of each month from year to year, this is a major cost in a short period of time. Governments in many European countries have responded quickly to what has been called life - crisis, accelerator of extenuating crisis. In Britain the secretary of Rishi Sunak had to fight for his political life for not doing enough, though he did something and did something right away. But here in Iceland, we are now talking about a pack of measures. This bill is certainly an important step, and I especially rejoice that here is a way to use the transfer vessels rather than to lower taxes, such as the Supreme Court. A left - green food minister - he spoke of reducing or dropping a valuable tax on food. I think that would have been a very significant way of reaching out to the most vulnerable groups. I'm glad to be the highest. The minister of finance goes on a completely different route, much more so with socialism than with what some have spoken. Of course, as a social health care worker, I'm in charge of making even more and more necessary, that this is not enough, etc. I can totally agree with that content. But I may want to take advantage of this opportunity to point out that vast counter measures to protect vulnerable groups from inflation, if not financed, can bite their tails. The vulnerable groups can be protected from inflation without a significant loss of the hold on government funds and without the segregation of the State Department. Concomitant supportive measures as described above would be e.g. can be turned down the pressured tax grants to the upper end of the money traders, as almost any group in the government stand agreed on, but the independent party and his added up went against the budget before a year's match. There could be an increase in the budget for the groups that have and earn the most. There are so many things you could do to offset important but meaningful measures for sensitive groups. Let's get this straight. It is the maintenance of public funds as a whole that counts if inflation is repeated. A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir went over earlier, but it can hardly be described as a special counterweight action to speed up the rise in pension and disability. It's written into the Social Security Act in 69. ., that improvements should be carried with pay development and must never be raised less than the prices of the index price. To follow the 69 str. They either had to raise their pension now or the more money they needed. I mentioned earlier that the practice of the approved budget was that unemployment benefits are associated with a percentage increase in social security benefits. V.E.G. The secretary of finance responded and said that it was not that they had always followed the development of social security, and that is absolutely correct. But when I spoke about the custom in this context, I was actually quoting at least In recent years, three or four reports of financiers laid down by the secretary of finance and recommended by the General Assembly. It is spoken of as a custom. I think it's a good way to find that unemployment benefits are related to the development of social security. It is true that the level of employment has gone down, but it does not change that today there are 9,000 people, 9,000 people in Iceland, without work, 3,000 people who have been out of work for more than 12 months. Let us recall that basic non-employment is 313,729 k. per month. That's not much money. This is the quarter of what we, members of this hall, get paid every month. Will anyone claim that this group has a particularly strong position to accept rising food prices, huge housing costs, rising fuel prices? No, I'm going to allow myself to claim that this group is no less vulnerable to inflation and interest than the groups being directly involved in this bill. I don't see fairness in leaving this group, people who have suffered a massive loss of income, is often isolated and in a more delicate position. I don't think it's fair. I don't think it's a bad social politics that jobseekers don't get the same kind of promotion as pensioners and cripples. I'm just going to close, because I have a few minutes left, to enter the bridal conversation that lies ahead and take place under the most challenging circumstances. Today, the European Union of Iceland has declared that the demands of the labor movement will largely depend on whether governments are ready to promote the transfer systems and to increase the supply of housing for low income and intermediate groups. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government is actually offering a complete resolution in these matters in the already existing financial program. There are short-term operations under this bill and they're not going to turn into the big movie. I also worry about the credibility of the government in upcoming state talks. It is now clear that there has not yet been a complete failure to fulfill promises made when the Life Treaty was signed. During the last few days, we have talked about rents and job papers. These are primes on the top. Web Ministers recommend and, on the other hand, the highest. A social and employment minister and in both of these discussions has developed very strong criticism from members of the Independence Party who seem to ignore nothing of the fact that these are things made very clear to the workers of the labour market a few years ago. In view of this, to be honest, I have a little bit of concern over the confidence of the government in the coming dress business. There it will be of utmost importance to meet the labour market partners, that they not only have to collect compensation through raises but also, with increased and improved services, and improved terms, including the results. Through our transfer systems and through government housing policies. Otherwise, I would like to say: There are very important steps that are taking place in this bill, and I think we at the Group of Congress will support these steps wholeheartedly, even making some adjustments. I look forward to getting this case into the Economic and Business Committee for further discussion and for review.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u57	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I just want to come up here and give you some support to the bill and the hunger lice in it. The population to have this 3% increase is the most necessary population. The largest part of those in the lowest stages gets $29,000. paid by taxes and really needs support. However, although these 3% rise have been installed and tried to prevent payment from subsiding, we must not forget that any taxable income installed in this system impairs other compensations, such as special compensations and age - related reviews. This system is so insane that it is kind of a sin and a shame that we must always be doing it and somehow try to add to the peninsulad mismanagement of this system. Nor should we forget in this process that there are individuals out there who have it incredibly bad. This has been an amazing blow to individuals, as well as single parents, who are trying their best to survive in this system, had tightened the safety pool and, in effect, hit by Covid, and then hit the war with the resulting in in inflation. It's an incredibly crazy solution to a growth in control growth, as it has been. We know people have to pay 20,000,200,000 bucks. More on rent, and then there's an increase in loans from house to house. We know that one percentage of the direct growth points at the Federal Bank of 30 million. K. A loan results in 20,000 bucks. monthly increase. This is way too much for underpayers. It's all too much and it's kind of too much for those at the lowest rate in the social security system. I really hope that when this case goes to a committee, it will be possible to add and I hope so much and fervently that the government will clean up and hang up, as Danir did, 90,000 k. "employment, tax and inadequacy." I asked that yesterday at a conference at the Quantum Association what it would change for individuals I was talking to if they got this. One said: It would make a big difference for me, then I would have hope that I could survive in a rented market until the fall when the social security system is due to be reimbursed. I hope that something will be done for the individual so that he has a chance to live in this system. As the situation is, I really hope this is just a draft of things to come. If there is a will -- and I'm absolutely convinced that the government's going to pay for it in every way to change it and try to do something better - we can make sure once and for all time that some particular amount will be placed in the tax and inaccessible. As I say 90,000 K, as Danir has been sent to his citizens and only because of the inflation, these individuals would be very useful. I can claim that the worst in this system is definitely not going to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u58	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to the export of real estate files from Iceland's National Registry to the House and Civilization Institute, often referred to as HMS. The bill has the objective of measuring for the change in law due to Iceland's transfer of Real estate to the Housing Agency. The history of the case is that following a tip from stakeholders, including The European Union, as well as the Society's Association of Industrial Affairs, assigned my advisory firm Intelecta at the start of 2021 to preexamine the sensitivity of moving projects on the basis of the legislation on registration and assessment of real estate from Iceland's National Book ofum to the Housing and Mobilization Agency. The poll was to determine whether professional and financial benefits could be involved in bringing the project to a Homeland and Managing Agency on the basis of law on registration and assessment of real estate, which is no. 6/2001, whether it would be possible to improve the efficiency of digital technology on continued development of real estate files and housing as a basis for the benefit of publics, public and businesses, as well as whether there might be a chance to change your trust in the activities currently available in Akureyri on the National Book of Iceland, and after incidents of using the opportunity to advertise jobs without location, dr. The objective of that government would be subject to, and finally, who would become economic sustainability and management the basis for the activities remaining in Iceland's National Registry for these changes and after events to offer further indications of changes in the activities that could include efficiency and streamlined planning. The results of the Commission's observations were that professional benefits would be the result of knowledge related to humanitarian activities at the same site. As a result, it was proposed to set up a new list of workers at the House and Engineers Institute, which could be linked to a real estate file and then would be directed to take the real estate record to a Homing House and Civilization Institute. It was suggested that the case be carried out in stepwise, first by speeding up the building of new databases by improving haploiding, i.e. a new list of workers, and later with larger steps, such as transporting real estate files between the institutions discussed here. The minister appointed a first phase of the project, i.e. To establish a new list of workers at Housing and Human Resources. In November 2021, a list of workers was officially opened and is now in business at the Homic and Engineing Institute. A new list of workers shows the supply of housing and the building material at any given time. The market has lacked perspective to make better decisions on housing construction. With this new list of workers, societies, companies, and institutions have access to real-time data. Therefore, grounds have been created to start the next stage of the project. Thus, the minister appointed another group of directors of March 2, 2022, representing the Department of woodpentry, Housing and Human Resources, Iceland's National Publications Index and Intelecta. The team has the responsibility of preparing for the transport of real estate files and is the bill of this large part of their work. The main subject of the bill is to change the registration and valuation of real estate law, No. 6/2001, Iceland National Registration Act, No. 70/2018, law on Homing and Human Resources, No. 137/2019, as well as other laws under which they stand. In this regard, there is primarily a change in wording, which is said to include the work of the National Relations in this field by the House and Civilization Organization. These include the decision to make real estate assessments, burn reforms, and other activities laid down in the law on registration, and the evaluation of real estate. The bill also discusses the transfer of workers from Iceland's National Institutes, working on a project based on a law on registration and assessment of real estate, to the House and Civilization Agency. It is also proposed temporarily that the separation of the terms of property files from other parts of it must be started and the transport of the Constitutional book from Homeland and Civilization Organization to the county. In view of the fact that the county's members are a candidate, and have recently made policy-making decisions on the development of the plagion system, it is only natural for the county to take over its authority. Before the Constitutional shares are separated from the registry, there are some exceptions, such as design and programming of new real estates and the plagion system, cost estimates, etc. However, this work is in the early stages, and it is suggested in the provisional directive that a minister ship a working group to begin this preparation. A respectable president. I view this project as a major step forward. Its aim is to ensure that the Icelandic community has reliable real-time information on human activities and the position of the housing market through modern databases, which could bring benefits into the community in the form of large-scale services, lower costs and increased tools for innovation. This will enable governments and other economics to improve planning and to make more targeted and targeted decisions based on sound information. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that, following this discussion, it be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee as well as the 2nd Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law on elementary school, No. 91/2008, the change in integrated exploratory tests. The only point of this bill is to temporarily eliminate the obligation to submit a consistent reconnaissance test. Changes in the quality of the tests have been considered in recent years, but in 2018 and 192019 the commission of stakeholders designed to shape proposals for a consistent study evaluation. This report came back in 2020 with a proposal for a consistent study evaluation for the Ministry of Education and Culture. Then, in the winter of 2021/2022, there was a decision by the Ministry to start working at the introduction of the report. The report, first of all, included the definition of the primary objective related to an integrated study assessment. Second, the opportunities and benefits that the group feels are important in its introduction. Third, there were subjects and terms that need to be considered for the future of a united study evaluation. Fourth, the results of the group were set out and provided for them and the criteria and warnings. After the results of the group were available, there was a great desire to continue working with the suggestions of the group. In September, that's it. A team was appointed as a work force, along with the Commission of stakeholders, to work on further future development of a consistent study evaluation in Iceland. Is that team and board of consultation still at work working on a project that will be available at the beginning of the summer. The project will continue to be prepared on the basis of the Ministry, and it is the bill that is now recommended for the core precept of that work. A respectable president. I'm going to go to the subject of this bill. The first and only articles of this bill require that, despite the 39th paragraph. the law on elementary school is not obliged to provide a consistent exploratory test until 31 December 2024. The school system has been under intense stress in recent years because of pandemic crown virus, as well as the precipitating of integrated exploratory tests in all cases over the past few years. Uncertainty related to the implementation of integrated exploratory tests has caused insecurity among children and families. The evidence that the best part for a child should always take priority when the official measures taken in paediatric patients are suggested to temporarily postpone the joint testing tests until the Ministry has introduced a new integrated study evaluation based on the proposal of a future policy on a consistent study evaluation since 2020. If the bill is legal, it will already come into effect. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd over. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u60	Madam President. This refers to postponing uniform tests, if I understand this correctly, to the end of the year 2024, and it is claimed that the bill will have a positive effect on children and the whole school community. Now, for the past many years, there has been talk about a consistent test, a consistent test effect on students, pressures, comparisons between schools, comparisons in classes of students, etc. These are views that it is just positive for children to be able to evaluate their status in relation to other students in the country, to be able to evaluate their status in comparison with other school schools in the country, and to some extent to be a consistent exploratory test, to do good, to influence children if the rights are to be handled and if the results are taken to study, in order to prepare the students better for the college. So I want to pray to the highest. A minister to explain this to me a little bit more. Is this to say that having a consistent exploratory test would have a negative effect on students and school activities, and why are tests not taken away completely?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u61	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his answer. As we have seen, and in my case and in the news, let's say, it's been said, it's been a failure to set the standard tests because technology and other systems have crashed after they have been submitted. The question is, Should an investment be made in a new harmonization system? The results of a conversation with a strategist, the teacher community, and others were trying to initiate evolution in a new assessment process to give a better picture of the student's position than this uniform test as we know them and the uniform tests I had taken during my time. The thought behind postponing a uniform test today is to go to the full extent of developing this assessment process, completing that project, and then implementing it in the law here as to how that assessment process should be built. As long as the standard testing is not postponed by law, it is to be submitted in itself. By doing so, we must go to the induction of a new computer system, which is thought to be unwise because there is a willingness to go to another system to evaluate the student's academic success. This is the explanation. I hope this answers a question. Senator. Then, too, in this work that does not appear in this bill, we are looking at the possibility of being increasingly involved in international comparative studies through PISA and other activities in which we are evaluating school systems and even individual schools from international comparisons, and it would come together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u62	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answer, and I certainly hope that power, knowledge, and funds will be placed in the design of a fair and good environment surrounding a consistent survey or around the study evaluation over the heads of the schools of the land, which is the very result of a positive influence on students. What I think was very negative and heartbreaking for students was the execution of a uniform test. If I recall correctly, the local director of the National Institute of Education said that he had made the Ministry of Education known with more letters and comments that the system that was involved in the implementation of cohesion tests was not good enough. We came to feel a real sense of it when things went wrong in a uniform test not long ago, and it certainly had a bad effect on students. The students then had the opportunity to take the test back at a different time, and there were many who did so because if a knowledge of learning is a decent and professional way of doing it, it will benefit students, and if schools do some work in order to benefit the students thereafter, it will only matter to the future of the students and their success in the reception schools. I hope, Madam President, this is where we're supposed to make proper adjustments, which leads to capital and professional knowledge all the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u63	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with what. Senator, I also hope this will benefit both the students and the community. It is true that the National Institute of Education was designed to provide a consistent test, but they were also working on the development of this new process of assessment or a consistent study evaluation, and the Ministry was working on a consistent study evaluation. Now, what we've been doing with this decision is to give us room for the next two years and say: "Hey, we're not going to run the same uniform tests and build systems around them, we're going to put all the power into the new study evaluation that's already under way, and in fact, it's been a great force in the last weeks and months. The goal, in turn, is to bring a consistent study evaluation across, and I have high hopes that it can go on, for it is putting all the power into it now. The plan is that it will be over during this period of time, and then a consistent exploratory test will be heard as we have known it, as I said earlier, the ones I took in my time, history, and other devices will be replaced by a study course and the study assessment of individual students and, hence, individual schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-18.u64	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the law on the communication adviser of sports and youth services. The bill suggests changes to the law based on experience and the work of the communication counselor since he began work in 2020. The content of the bill is first proposed to increase the role of a communication counselor in line with the development of the work. Is this done with a new number where a communication counselor is recommended to provide information on the issues of individuals who are looking for them, where cases or errors are reported in connection with a work that falls under the range of these laws and that he pays the way of such cases, including those involved. with a publisher's version of the opinion of an appropriate person. Appropriate partners in this relationship may be able to tolerate, care providers, sports organisations, specialists, or others who may be interested in the advice of a communication counselor. Second, about the subject of the bill, it is suggested that two paragraphs be added to Article 6. The law. The first paragraph recommends that a communication adviser be allowed to process personal information, including sensitive personal information. Two. has specifically discussed the authority of a contact counselor to communicate information to third party. In accordance with the principles of the law, the exchange is bound to those responsible for activities that compromise the law's standards. Third, the bill includes the fact that there is no doubt that the right to access data on the basis of information legislation does not reach a communication adviser. The data handled by a communication counselor has been considered to be that private interest outweighs the public's right to know about them. Fourth, No. 64/1998, with this change striving to correct the specific error between 1 and 2 mgr. Section 16. Sports. It is suggested that the bill take effect when it is approved. A respectable president. I've explained the basic subject of the bill. I believe that in your bill, there is an important element to maintain and further improve the needs of the work being done by a communication consultant. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to. General and Education Committee.
