ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u1	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We just have to disagree with each other about state reexamination and the words that have been made here fall in terms of that institution. For the highest. Of course, a minister of business isn't very good, if I prefer to stand here in this pit and express myself about some word she's fallen upon, and she's not there to discuss it herself. This, of course, is the case with growth that the person listed here is not a member of the Ministry on Economics and is therefore unable to express himself about the words and events that have occurred there and the words that have been passed down there. So I think it's right to the highest. A businessman will answer for that himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u2	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe these fugitives of the Annexe Party when it comes to words of the highest degree. Secretary of the business. We are asking for nothing but to evaluate the official statements of the minister. The minister comes in a press interview and says: "I spoke against the fact that this project would be done, and I saw it going to be a mess. What do you think? A senator of the fact that the minister has not publicly explained his position before the hearing? That's a responsibility, isn't it? We are not referring to any two - man talk. We don't need to have sat at the table when the warnings fell to the Minister's Committee, I'm just saying that in public, the ministers said that she saw that this would end in a mess, and she warned. Did the minister, the vice president of the Future Party, not have a moral obligation to warn the public of what it had warned other ministers? I'm quoting official comments, not what was asked for meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u3	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think there's only a big picture to watch when this comes and the fact that it's the highest. For many years, a minister of business has been able to access these matters and, of course, took part in restoring the property we are here discussing. I'm sure at some level, it's the highest. A secretary of the business who has much knowledge of these matters confounds his views and discuss possible conclusions. On the other hand, I think it's always that way, when sort of, that we talk down on the conclusion, and that's what happened. I reiterate that I believe to be the most reasonable one. The secretary of the business will answer for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u4	Madam President. The stock market in Iceland, March 22, was the third largest in Iceland's history and the first major postwar development. In the light of history and in view of the great interests being cared for, of course, it had to say that matters would be taken so that it would be clear that the purpose of the campaign and the sale served the public interests. This is best done by ensuring transparency, by ensuring equality, by ensuring active competition that is just the conditions that the legislation has placed in the laws on sales such as this. Thus, the public could trust the government's sales process, a $1 million sale for this time 52.5 billion. For us who are in favor of the government's release of property in the banks, the result is now a tremendous disappointment. The result of the government, a project responsible for it, has taken the public's trust completely to the floor. Answers to the highest. In these last days, the minister of finance has been on the way that when 83% of the nation claims to be disgruntled with the results of the bank sale they are responsible for, it is evidence of the foolishness of the people in the country. That's the way they spoke. A minister on a radio interview this weekend. However, the judgment of history is simply that the Independence Party is not trustworthy in sales like this. I mentioned it earlier tonight, and I'm going to let myself repeat it, because the fashion word for this sales has become an arm length, that I think the conclusion must be that we need an arm length from the Independence Party when we're handling this kind of interests. Now it seems that the Independence Party itself agrees with 83% of the nation, for the government has proclaimed that there will be no further sale. A direct result of this sale is that the bank office must be put down to save the lives of the government, and the secretary of finance has to declare that he will not sell any further items in the banks. Of course, it says all that has to be said about how it was successful. Madam President. Trust me, we've talked about it here tonight. It is an independent and important part of a project like this in the light of interests that are at stake, as well as in the light of history. The trust goes as a red thread through all legal legislation on finance companies following the bank collapse and during the years that followed. So trust was the lawyer's answer to how to proceed, how to heal the wound open after a bank collapse. The changes made on both law and monitoring factors following the collapse have all been made to deal with the weaknesses and defects that the crash revealed and, at the same time, to meet the commitments of Iceland under the EEA Convention. I feel so sad, and I feel so bloody that over a decade after a bank crash, the government did not show greater respect for people's trust in this process, for trust is essential to the ability to speak of successful invitations. When an invitation is issued that violates transparent targets, you can see, it violates the goals of equality and the goals of active competition, the offer is not successful. Bank administration laws are clear and express its goals. The legal role of the Bank Office is to emphasize the restoration and construction of a strong domestic financial market and contribute to active and natural competition there as well as to ensure transparency of the decision-making of the State's involvement in financial activities. The list of investors that the management departments speak a lot about their release showed that a selected group of people got to buy stocks at 4% discount, and we all know that not all of the names on that list impress you. All it took to participate was that these members self-defined themselves as professional investors. Governments had no other requirements, not minimum level requirements, not requirements for reputation. A financial minister has said that qualified investors received a discount because they would buy a larger share in the banks as well as that there was uncertainty about the development of stock prices weeks after the sale. Of course, it was found that some of the investors were buying so little money that this argument is by no means reasonable. The public was held outside the invitation with reasoning that did not hold back. In addition, we have so much news that the dealers bought. I think it is very important that the Prime Minister recognizes discussions on the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and whether it is true that there was a conflict in the government's methodology in the implementation of the invitation, whether it is really right that there was no discussion of how the law's terms were guaranteed to ensure distribution of property. Who were discussed as long - term investors, and who were short - term investors? Why was there no requirement for reputation? The Bank County Act makes it clear that the Bank Office proposes a suggestion on the table. That's her job. She suggests a financial minister, who will then decide which way to go. Thus, political responsibilities are completely clear with the secretary of finance, and the function of the left green, and the forward party cannot change that reality. At the beginning of this case when VG's members insisted that the Bank Office be removed, they may have unwittingly asked that financial ministers also agree that the Bank Office is a minister of finance. It will carry out his decisions, and these two things will not be understood. The government's rationalization was that qualified professional investors would achieve the State's goals by selling the hall, and one of the top government projects would be to select these qualified buyers. Talk about something else now, not about water. The taxpayers received a lower share for the bank's sale because they were to consult professional investors, but small short - term investors were still a large percentage of the buyers. Some of them sold immediately, made money on their investment, lost the public. When we look at this discount, we may be crying to think that it is spoken of as some 2 billion that may be the same amount that the government spliced on itself in the beginning of this administrative work when it went on expanding the Council of Government. However, if governments believe that they have a problem with the standards of price and acceptable purchases, this standard is in some extent in the law. In fact, there is a list of points that can be considered, that are involved in persons who want to buy an active financial share, which is another factor, but it does show what beat the lawgiver has previously taken in terms of other things than just name and size. It requires information on financial status, business relations, experience, possession, management, review and the need for research and any other information that the FDA considers necessary and published in public. It is not that in the law it is entirely unknown to set demands or demand information, not at all. There would have been nothing to go beyond the financial law. The answers have certainly been that the Bank Management Board does not determine whether investors meet conditions to be considered professional investors. There is an assessment of the financial institutions themselves, but the UN can investigate and investigate the definitions of the enterprises and at the same time it is quite clear that financial secretary's responsibility for the budget of investments was indeed there. The three Ministers most concerned with the sale are sitting together on the Ministry Committee on Economic Opportunities. [[The president calls.]] The political responsibility to create an arrangement that is well - founded in the public was the responsibility of the government, and we have the right to answer about what happened in the political issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u5	Madam President. Thank you. Gunnlaugsdóttir For the Sigríður talk that answered me in various matters, you may have survived Sigrídídóttir for the illuminating speech. I wanted to follow up on this matter a little more, these speculations about the role of laws and regulations in this matter. I know that the representatives of the Archipelago have declared in the Assembly Hall that they are involved in the sale on the banks, and it is of course politics to take sides in such matters. But I would like to ask: How does the senator feel that this game of the government will be played on April 19, if I recall the right to put the bank office down, put it into the market and trust of the government until the government is the owner and party to do business with the future? I think this must be true when we're rolling all the rocks on this matter, especially when the Bank Office itself declared that it is going to keep a vague amount of that 700 million because it has the right to look at it. In my speech earlier today, I said that men have ever sent a case through a court system of less than 700 million. Shared. A senator believes in me that this could possibly affect the value of the bank when it comes to selling it again? Madam President. The public also has a shareholder in the bank. We bought a lot in June last year, some sold, not all of us. Of course, this is also a way for the common people to make money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, the announcement referred to by the senator did two things. She explained that the government had decided to put down the bank business. She also reported that there would be no further sale for parts of Iceland's Bank, which are a deviation from the government's own government covenant. It says everything that has to be said about whether it was a successful move or not. Government policy was to continue the sales process. Because we were discussing trust here in this hall, of course, it is relevant to all the public in the country, but it also matters for the market. In this regard, I found it interesting to hear a talk. paritaprevir In the meantime, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson was wondering what would happen. If the government is to submit a bill to the establishment of the bank administration, then it can be assumed that these laws will not be valid until the next year. In the meantime, there is a government and director with screaming mistrust from the government itself who is injured by the controversial methodology. It is not just a matter of thought - provoking how it was being sold. The afterlife raises as much questions as any, this government's press release. As we examine the Council of Government, the bill on the Bank County was not for a discussion at government meetings, as the law requires.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u7	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and at the same time the support. I was just going to fill in the point she mentioned at the end of my second act. I'd like to review this with the Bank Office and the Act on sale of the government's holdings on finance. These are two layers, they're three years apart, and they don't have the same role. The bank administration is taking over a part of the government's holdings on finance. I know this very well, because I was in charge of one of the fallen banks, last as chairman of the board, and at that time the Bank Board was founded. Her role is perfectly clear. However, the laws for sale of property begin with the words: 'Counsel is permitted to sell...'•It's two songs. I'm sorry about the newcomer, but I think it's being confused in this room, I have to admit it. Then I'd like to reiterate and pray. A senator coming back to it: What does the senator foresee? Can the Bank Management Board be the real possession of these assets in the next few months? I don't know when we're gonna vote for the next board. It's supposed to appoint the managers and take these parts elsewhere. Is it really going to do it the way the situation is today? And then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u8	Madam President. Most of us were faced with severe nervousness in this government press release, something needed to happen after many days of silence. But its contents were macropolitical news. They're putting down an independent agency that holds 400 billion without an attempt to answer what will take place, what the future picture should look like, and what should happen in this intertwinment. Under these items are all but no answer from the government on what steps to follow or what to take in the meantime. It must be said at the moment that it is a fairy irresponsibility to intend to get past the political squeamish valley, as I allow myself to call it, by undergoing such an operation, and by having no answer as to what will take over, or how to resolve the situation. That is a fairy irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u9	A respectable president. Sala Iceland Bank was in accordance with the Treaty Treaty Development, Independence Party, and Left Forces, but the Treaty states that during the term, the government will continue to reduce financial resources and use the money to build wood. It is perfectly normal for people to be alarmed when it comes to selling Kingdom booths, especially for those who remember what happened in the years after a crash. However, many years have passed with a significant change in the legal and regulations of the environment. With skeptics, I say I believe we're not going back to the same place. The 2008 financial market work environment has been fraught with financial crisis to prevent us from returning to the same hole. However, this need to be over and over again, and we need to examine what we can do in order to do even more. As for the buyers, professional investors, as so many have been identified, are defined as meeting qualifications based on thorough analysis and data collection as well as having good reputation, having a strong financial situation. More demands are made for those who buy the item now than were made in previous privatization. It can be asked, however, if all these investors meet the conditions of professional investing and the definitions that apply to them and that are considered. One of the goals of sales was to reduce debt. We're getting out of a pandemic. With a good status of state funds, we were able to deal with the situation, and thanks to the good economic government of the past few years, we are better than many feared to hope. Thus, we have increased access to social, lucrative investments. Of recent sales of stocks in Iceland banks, there are certainly certain topics that are important for our answers. I'll say the highest words. When she speaks of the need to get to the bottom of the procedure, I support the procedure that has been put into place. I'd like to believe that those people who have the case in their respective institutions are working on the case and its investigation with integrity, as are all of the other institutions of the Council. I believe we have capable and qualified individuals to consider these issues, including this matter. A government accountant works by Generalis law. He is independent and does not depend on anyone's work, and he will decide for himself how he will do his job. He can even. demand all the information and information he needs, and seek the help of the police if a person refuses to turn over the information he has a legal right. A paper with a bill to legalize research committees will be presented, with the permission of a president: It is warranted that the order of the investigator is a means to be used which should only be used if alone is indicated that the standard of research methods cannot be used. It is a special arrangement and it is important that such a person be viewed as such and that only action is necessary. In addition, the Act expects the President of the Generals to choose the chairman of such a research committee and to end both its commission in agreement with the Committee to President and Commission. In effect, then, there was a chance that political involvement would be greater than the State Reconnaissance Board of Study Committees. However, there has been a loud demand from the government's opposition to be organized to review the sales in Iceland Bank. I reiterate that I have full confidence in those who now have the issue considered, and I believe it is, as it has been before, the natural beginning of this matter. We got the bank into our arms in time, and we solved the present problems and put much emphasis on separating the political power from the decision - making of a financial market. The government's clear policy is still that it is there that separation and learning from what history has been teaching us. It is important that all facts surface so that the discussion can be continued on an enlightened basis. We must not forget the fundamental objective that was originally set up in making a decision for the sale, which is that the funds obtained from the sale would be placed in a powerful infrastructure in this country. I believe we can by making sure of a powerful restoration, e.g. by Covid, and the strong infrastructures of the region will be even better. We all have the same objectives as they are that we have a solid society, that we have a solid government and that we have confidence in the Council. We all agree on that. We must have strong infrastructures in the foregrounds for all the people in this country. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to reiterate further that I feel that everything is on the table when it comes to things like this and that the project is above all doubt. Hence, we need to examine what happened, and we need to allow the situation to take place today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u10	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I suppose that's what. A senator believes in what the forwarding party vice president has said about his warnings. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council how she feels about it. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister did not respond to warning words. Minister of Culture and Business, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's hard for me to say if I believe something that hasn't been told me directly. I'm not gonna come up here and answer for something I haven't said or heard someone say. I think it's best if he's a minister. A senator refers to the questions raised here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of culture and commerce has made very clear that it warned of the procedure in which the bank sale went, warning of the proposal. I thought, in my simple mind, that the senators of the House believed her words. I don't think she's lying when she's promoting this in the media. So I'm a little surprised. In some way, a senator did not trust to assume that a minister of her party is telling the truth in the media. I'll just ask them again, "Good luck." Not from the general standpoint that the Ministers of the Agency are telling the truth when giving interviews on the subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u13	A respectable president. Of course, I'll walk out on that and believe that it's the best. Minister says it's true. But I don't expect the highest. Ministers come up here in a pita and understand my words, something I've said in the media. So I'm going to let her come and explain her position in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u14	President. It's a simple question to be asked. Senator: Is the State Accounting and the FESI investigation to the bottom line? Do these two parties cover all the possible viewpoints and factors in this matter? I ask because we have a previous example of not being, a report of the Government Accounting on the previous personal sales and then an Athlei study report that showed that it was clearly much more than the publication of Government Review. This is something that matters because if it happened. A senator believes that these members, State Review and Economic Affairs, cover the whole area here, is, in effect, saying that there is never a need for a research committee because these are resources that really cover everything that needs to be considered. But if I didn't, I'd like to ask what other options do we have that would address the whole issue? A senator referred to a law on research committees that would have to be an option in which there really was nothing else, it would be a very special option in this regard. So, first of all, do the FESI and the National Reconnaissance get over the whole area? If no, what is needed to make that happen, and if so, is it not simply a committee of inquiry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I believe, in effect, that the F.O.S. and the State Accounting can look into the administrative process and what happened, and that's what I think it's important that we look into and get to the bottom of it. Of course, I believe they have the authority to look at this particular matter. Always referring to what happened with the General Commission on the bank crash, I think it's a significantly greater case, since it was many years of events that had to be covered and suspected. I'm not saying you don't have to get suspicious of this. We need to go down to the bottom and see what really happened so that all of us can take a better and more informed discussion of what happened, take the discussion from that point on. But then I want to accept the discussion in some other way. A member of the Parliament on the real role of the General research committees and how we will use them for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u16	A respectable president. Now we have an example of more cases where a research committee has been working and, in fact, much smaller in format, e.g. A board of inquiry on the apartment loans. There's something you would have thought that a Government Accounting could completely cover, one institution, a camp loan fund, a research committee that went into it. It's definitely bigger than an apartment loan fund. There we have the Ministry and Minister. We've got Bank County and we've got counselors and sales advisers and anyone involved in the sale there. That's a pretty big job. Of course, not as much as the General's research report on the fall of banks, but larger than that of camp loans, I would think. So I simply ask again: Does the National Reconnaissance and Economic Affairs get around all the points that need to be considered in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u17	A respectable president. I believe that the President's Accounting and State Accounting and the UN are willing to take a look into this situation. And again: I feel that these views are quite the opposite. A senator pours out his past and how they have been used very interestingly. I think it's worth taking that discussion on a different level under another team. But right now, my answer is: Yes, I believe these institutions are fully equipped to look into the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u18	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk, she was a reflection of what we have heard from the advance party today. In some respects, the research committees of the II Parliamentis declared a lack of confidence. I'm sorry, I think the key part, I agree with you. A senator is making sure that we can build trust in the sale of banks, that history does not repeat, that we learn from experience. It is important that all things be informed in this matter because we need to be public with us when selling financial interests to the State. We simply have to face it. It is reasonable to ask whether the sources of the State Review and Economic Commission, which are well meant to be not looking at the Ministry, do not have that role, are wide enough to inform us about all the sales. Maybe I've been mistaken. A member of the council, but this is how it works. In the light of history, does a senator not trust the General's research committees to settle down on this matter? I thought we had to get close to things so that we'd want to inform everything, not just certain things that the Government Accounting has just the authority to inform us about. I wish not to be turned out of this, as such. has been done by reason of what? paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson's son, in that we do not trust a government reexamination, that is not. Second, I'd like to point out: Was it not only the government itself that initially declared the mistrust in Government Accounting? The government declared that the matter should first be carried out to the State Reexamination but before the Government's Accounting had finished, the government had already slaughtered the government of the state's bank. Will there be a sound and a picture with the government? Is it not her, above all, who is making a tone that involves distrust of the Government Accounting?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the answer, it is important that the discussion be taken on this basis. I answer right away: No, I wasn't expressing confidence in the Federal Committees or other research committees, and I haven't indicated any need to be. I was giving specific opinions about how we should approach the discussion, but trust was not included in my speech, by no means. Regarding the government's declaration after government review, it only speaks for itself. The statement is as it is, and I think it was herself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u20	A respectable president. I may have misunderstood why. A senator. In her speech, I felt that the committees of the council were even worse in order for them to be political. Was a what? So a senator meant that they were generally political in their conclusions? It would be nice to get a view like that. Then I'd like to ask. That's not true. That's not what a senator is. We've been talking about the highest words. Secretary of culture and commerce. I'm not gonna ask exactly what she's said out front. What has she said in the advance? Then I'm not just talking about the Party. How's the top? A minister applied himself to these matters and presented his viewpoints? Has the highest. Whether in Congress or not, do Ministers express their views and doubts about the construction of the sale? Is it clear that these views of the minister echoed within the category, at least before they were sent out to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u21	A respectable president. These were, in fact, just thoughts that I was throwing out, not so that such committees are necessarily political. Of course, such committees work faithfully, as I came into my speech, everyone is working faithfully. I just want to believe that when such committees are set up, they are neutral in their jobs. I believe it's clear that we have the most qualified people in place. For a word at the highest. The minister of culture and commerce has always been very professional and very strict in her presentation of sales in Iceland, and she is very able to express herself on that matter. I reiterate that I'm going to let her express herself in this pont about her own words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u22	Madam President. Depravity can take on a variety of manifestations. Some lights, other subtleties. It is corruption when law enforcement officials accept bribes, such as those commonly used in some parts of the world. Police are stopping your car and telling me you broke traffic laws, e.g. Forget to give direction when bent, but that you can avoid going to the court if you pay a minor fine that the policeman so puts in his pocket. However, corruption is not always so obvious. In fact, the obvious corruption is just the tip of the iceberg, which covers quite seriously as we look at what is hidden below the surface. Depravity can be hidden in complex writing procedures and hide behind formalities. In fact, we do not have to look far to find it. In the days when the Independence Party was in more part in Reykjavík, it was used to make it possible for property to be assigned mainly to those who first stopped at Valhalla and entered the Independence Party campaign. But we do not even have to look to the past in search of corruption, for it still exists today. The latest card is to sell money to old acquaintances and even to relatives on this also excellent discount. When you ask, "How in the world is it going to be the highest? " The secretary of finance is allowed to sell a bank to his father, and you get a laugh and conflicting answer. We'll hear that it's the highest. The secretary of finance just doesn't need to know who he's selling state property. He should not find out who's buying. It might be estimated that the list of approved offers might as well be met by a hundred relatives. Secretary of the budget, Daltons and Bears and everything would be fine. This is what the board of directors want us to believe. Yes, corruption is Masquerading. She hides behind her arm and carries responsibility. It is justifying itself with ill - logical debates and misdirects the interpretation of details. There is a painful forehead left to the public and to splash salt into the wound when the members of the board meet in a pont and in the media interviews and songs: No one needs to feel envious. See, corruption in Iceland isn't like corruption where the policeman stops you and asks you for a bribe. The corruption in Iceland is more like mold that blooms between our walls. If we do not get conscious of it and respond in a decisive way, we may begin to feel that mold is more homelike, even homelike. One day, the darkness comes, has grown a beard, and we all lose our minds. Perhaps we are already at peace with the molds. You see, we are no longer shocked when corruption strikes. Ministers may find out if they own societies or use inside information to sell their share in companies or funds in the days before the public loses a major share in their collapse. We'll be there for a few days, and then we'll forget all of this together as soon as the next one comes up. We're trapped in a scandal car. We look around and envy our cousins in lands we try to compare ourselves with. There, counsellors and other politicians are made to take their bag if so much as a violation of the corruption we have been accustomed to surface. But in Iceland it's good to be smuggled. All your fellow soldiers flock to set up a armored city around the molds and the code into a red death, and you do the same for them. Yeah, maybe it's time to step on the brakes and stop going round and round. Perhaps it is time for us as a nation to admit to ourselves that we have become seasick and confused with the infinite soap opera that our government uses day after day. It is time for us to pursue new politics, honest politics, a new beginning of corruption, a new beginning of public work, not of selected friends and neighbors. New politics in a new society where morals and righteousness are allowed to dominate more, not party cards. A government that is responsible for making mistakes, a community where we do not accept just the mold, and we can breathe more easily.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u23	A respectable president. The figures identified in the preparation and implementation of sales of the financial part of the state have revealed the need for a review of the laws and institutions. Therefore, the government has decided to propose to the General that the State Department of Banks will be laid down. This is stated in the government's declaration from April 19th, and I've tried to get a little bit of today to see which subjects are exactly as the government's pointy minds believe they were. V.E.G. The minister of finance referred to a lack of transparency, pointing to a lack of information. It's got a bit of echo in the speeches of more management, including... to two members of the budget board. The problem with this is, naturally, that this is not exactly a project that is directly responsible for the bank office's direct responsibility but is much more a matter that is directly heard under the secretary of finance to see that it is all right. You see, the laws on the sale of the property of the state's financial institutions assume that there is a particular presence of the Generals. It is the minister himself who prepares a report, is obliged to do so, and to ensure that the Council is given specific information on the planned process, and if there were some serious problems or lack of transparency and information, and if the Council somehow did not get the proper information on what might be available then, it would, of course, be the responsibility of a minister who has actually been leading to this information for the council. Other things, e.g. In the case of the prime minister, it has been suggested that there were no rules for binding times and minimum economic levels at the invitation. These are one factor that a minister should have taken care of. It is not necessarily expected that the Bank Management Board will decide on such matters in the first place. So I still feel that in many ways, after the day the major challenges and preparations are causing this institution to go down. I have to say, I don't think it's a good thing. I don't think it's such a thing to run away when it's upset in the community because of the controversialities of the sale and decide to suggest it to the Council to lay down this institution. I also find it interesting that the government has made a decision when there is no formal discussion at a government meeting, i.e. Not on the basis of what is stated here in the declaration, that there are fixed targets that call for the establishment of the government banking board, and therefore it is decided on the part of a government. I don't have much time, and I'm going to wind up on the points I want to draw attention to, and I don't want to double something that has happened to other members of the council today. But now, on April 8, the Director of Economic and Economic Affairs sent a letter to the State Reconsisting to the Agency that it study and evaluate whether the sales in Iceland Bank agreed with law and good government practices. The reply letter of the State Accounting, which was received on the same day, shows that the Agency has decided to grant the above request, cr. 2 mg. Section 8. track No. 46/2016, with a head accountant and a review of state accounts. It is also stated in the reply that it has not been determined how this observation will be determined precisely, what exactly it will turn to, yet the Agency has decided to perform this request. I feel that this has led me to the study and to the review and to work out what happened at the Bank of Iceland, taking on a peculiar course as a drive in many ways. First of all, because in the state accountant's law and review of government accounts, it is not expected that governments are the ones who take the initiative in the examination of the Kingdom Accounts. The law contains a very clear set of regulations that the Commission and Commission's Commission can take their own initiative or as suggested by the proposal that the State Accounter shall collect a report on the individual issues or litigations that fall under the scope of his territory. The law also states that if nine members of Congress request a report from a state accountant in a Senate Hall, the same value. In the Law itself, however, there is no clear provision for such initiative to come from governments, and there must be some reason why this is so. Here I feel that we must bear in mind that the government itself, the state accountant's secretary, is in charge of the Generals, and that it is highly compatible with this role that the government itself, the patrol members who hear under the other Article of the government but the National Relations, are endeavoring to influence whether and how the World Council and its institutions, the State's Office, and the World Council's U.S. It is simply, as is described so closely in these laws on Government Review, only the work of the Generals to protect the legal hearing. I also feel that there's some power in this sharp response to State Accounting or that it only surprised me because of what the Ministry of finance is asking for is being checked. Good administrative practices are specifically spoken of, but the fact is, the monitoring of the Government's Reconsistencies to the government is subject to the International Assembly as per Article 43. The constitution and Article 3. track No. 46/2016 of government traffic. It does not result in any other way in which such government operates according to laws and careful administrative practices. Such supervision is on the hands of the General agent under the laws for that institution and after the events of the administration of a administrative and surveillance committee based on a Congressary Act. As an examination by The State's Accounting is defined in the above announcement, in fact from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and then from Government Review, it can be wondered whether its contents will totally agree with the Agency's legal working force, or whether it is not the very thing that the World Council's agent would be much better to evaluate. But there is, in effect, a minister with his initiative arranged to arrange for the inspection to take place. It happens while there's a baloney political dispute over which direction this is going to take over here at the General Assembly. For an announcement by the National Review Committee, please refer to 2 mg. Section 8. Act of a state accountant. It's a pay permit. It says: "In a matter of special interest and need to be viewed by a state accountant or made an assessment of the management of money in a given language or in a designated field, he is permitted to pay for it. " So the question arises: Will Government Accounting start taking charge of the Ministry of finance? So if you look at the legal evidence, the paper that followed the bill that became a state accountant's law, this particular provision is thought to be a special means when unusual situations arise that have not been planned in the Agency's work programme or budget, but it is right to feel that the State Accounter examines. According to one estimate, a government accountant would have special consultation with the presiding committee on such observations. I don't know that such consultations are in place. As an example of an event that would be appropriate for the Council of England, it is specifically a review of the National Review of the Economic Society of Aluminium in 2010. [[The president calls.]] This was made with a special agreement with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. I think that in order to build confidence in this case all of us need to know if there will be a special agreement with the Ministry of Economics this time or how this is going to be done exactly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u24	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. Since the sale of the bank, it has been this way that the government and the members of the administration have discussed all sorts of topics that may have been related to something more than what is being done. There's been a suggestion to lay down the Bank Office and we've been discussing a little bit of how it was introduced, and it's a matter of state reexamination and whether it has the right tools and so on. But all of this is the result, and at times we may be being pushed into the position of government toward details that are not related to the basic question: What basic points were not in order for the sale that we already know? Watch your step. A senator might give an overview of them, selling e.g. Persons being investigated for fractures, selling to relatives, etc.? These are things that were not right in the sale itself, but we're talking too much, I think, about the consequences and the details. What are the basics of the sale that are wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u25	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's a little bit like that right now, when it's kind of in the middle of what happened, we know it's pretty bad. This can be summed up somehow, so the fact is that there was a closed invitation that the public could not participate in, which, in fact, ended. Father of finance was allowed to buy an item at a bank, and some men with a very questionable past, with a judgment sentence on their back, even the defendants of economic crime, and with the people crying out and a certain trust crisis. This is an attempt to zoom up what happened. Now I feel a little obliged and the responsibility for us in here trying to get this both fast and effective, especially well, but I also need to have faster hands when things are studied because other factors can be wasted. In fact, I just think that it is extremely important to talk about the consequences and specific technical factors, such as what is normal, how we should react here, and how we should respond to them. The discussion of the other, these basics, is heard everywhere in the community. I feel that the discussion here today has not only contributed to these technical issues but also to these fundamental factors. I was especially pleased with the review of a course. paritaprevir The Einarsson were about this earlier, she was very good, and the passage of Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter today. Also, the Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir was very careful about some of the basics. I don't think it's either or, we just need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The appointment of a research committee on these matters has now been required. If You Read the Law on Study Committees, No. 68/2011, that is what 1st chapter. - Here's a suggestion to appoint a research committee - with the permission of a president: ▪ When preparing such a suggestion and prior to making such a suggestion, particular evaluation of the basis and basis of the study should be made, its scope and limitation, and the availability of other measures. Now that it sounds a little bit like this in this room, when the Generals have been talking that they're saying that these other options are National Reunion and SEC. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he can frame it: Why are these other options not sufficient and available to cover it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u27	A respectable president. I would like to begin by saying, there is no way in any way in which the Directorial Board of Directors is taking a look at the Management Board and her investigation does not make it possible for the Bank Office or the Ministry of finance, so we can just forget it right away. As for the Public Review Show, it's something I've been trying to do for a talk, but time ran away from me. But there are five important things that I think I need to make use of my second talk here, the five minutes, to cross to finish that show. I'd like to say that in this whole process, because there are sometimes talk of arm lengths, etc., there are certainly certain arms lengths written in the law of the State's Bank County, but in the law of the government's sale of financial assets, ministers are actually over and around the process. It is assumed that he will overstay the process at all levels. He decides whether or not to start sales therapy, whether or not it is offered, if it sets the standards for sales and goals, and whether to sign the agreement on the government's behalf. In view of this, I think it is very important that now that we make this up and consider it on a subject, the focus will be a little bit on a minister. We need to determine whether a minister has provided a satisfying basis for his decisions, both March 18 and March 22, and whether he has observed his field of study and both the documented and unscheduled rules. Then, not only laws in the laws on the sale of the government's ownership of financial institutions but also the unscheduled regulations of the administration and administration rights. This is something I think it's necessary to do a very thorough inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u28	Mr. President. The laws on the sale of the financial property of the state, the law established, were intended to provide a solid basis for selling the state's property in banks. There were the passwords transparency, objectiveness, equality and practicality. It was very important to set such a law, that at the time, when the law was adopted in December 2012, to learn a lesson from the crash, to see to it that the process of starting, if a part of the State was to be sold in the banks, would be civilized and likely to create trust, and the minister's responsibility is written very thoroughly into the law. The invitation we're discussing here is controversial but it was agreed to have a closed invitation intended for qualified investors intended for professional investors. There is no official list of professional investors in this country, as do many abroad. Each server must thus classify his clients as public investors or professional investors according to what the law indicates on how to define. Many persons, as defined by public investors, were allowed to participate in this commission as if they were professional investors. Now the F.A. has asked for information on this classification, how it was conducted, and that's good, because it has to go through it. The conclusion, however, is that the method suggested that the servers add individuals to the number of people who would be able to buy until the last minute. We've seen this list. We've seen who got to buy a discount on this mission. The question is, Was it just a typical Icelandic amateur or incompetent thing, or in consultation with the Bank Office and Minister, and we need to find answers to it? In her talk earlier today, the chairman of the Board of Sheep said that she was standing in the belief that a long - term investor was involved, so she would have been surprised by the results of the art. The banking board says that each step has been taken in collaboration with the government, and the law assumes it. I feel that there are misunderstandings, when it comes to the discussion of the law, about the role of the Bank Office and the responsibility of the Minister. I feel that there's been a misunderstanding in many of the talks here and before, so I think it's important that we run the law a little bit. In 1st. it speaks of what a minister is permitted to sell. When these laws were passed, the State had a 13% share in Arion Bank, a 5% share in Iceland Bank, and the law states that these items are permitted to be sold, and then more than 70%, in the Lands Bank, during which time the State had 81% in the Lands Bank. As late as the financial system hits virtually everything in the state or in 2015. Two. The decision to sell is discussed, and it says, by permission of the president: When Ministers agree to the government's proposal for sale of government property in a financial firm. 1.mg. 1st par. he shall prepare a report on a planned sales treatment and shall provide a budget and the WHO and trade committee of the General Assembly. The secretary shall also seek the information of Iceland's Office on host equality, the likely impact of sales on currency markets, currency stores, and available traffic funds. The report shall include information on the main objectives of the sale of the property part, on the method of sale and on how to prepare otherwise. The committee should be given the proper time to comment on the subject. At the end of the week (see section 4.4). 1.mg. The secretary's decision should be made to determine whether or not the sale of the property part should be initiated according to the materials of the report. The minister's decision may change the individual aspects of the planned sale regimen, including taking into account the comments made by the financier or the WHO and Business Committee of the Generals at the report. In this 2. it is clear who is in charge and who decides the policy and how the organization is and that is financial and economic minister. In the 3rd. it speaks of a principle in dealing with sales: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. About Section 3. says in the bill with this law, by permission of the President: It is important that equality be maintained between those who are candidates for a possible ownership share so that all likely buyers have equal opportunities to make an offer. Equality will be best guaranteed by the availability, clear and all light conditions. In Comb 4. has crossed the sale site. It says, by permission of the president: In accordance with Minister's decision, cr. 2.g. The government's banking agencies prepare sales, look for proposals for property, evaluate oers, oversees negotiations with external advisers and prospective buyers, and negotiate. In the presence of an arrangement, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the minister with a reasoned assessment of them. The minister decides whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State for the sale of the holding object. Mr. President. I think that 4. Very clear. It is absolutely clear that it is the Minister who has the final word and accepts the proposal of the Bank Office. He says either: Yes, I'm gonna walk. Or: No, I'm gonna turn it down. Depending on the way the proposals are made and whether they fit the spirit of the law and course taken. In the 5th. is then referred to as a report. Two regulations are temporary. There is another example of sales management in the savings, how they stood in the stocks, and what part of these laws were valid for them. Qualifications for Temporary No. I'll say, with president's permission: The Council has concluded that a panel of research committees would appoint a personalization of three banks during the period of 1998◯2003. In the presence of the results of this study, financial and economic secretary shall review the individual requirements of these laws in accordance with the protocols of the investigator, if necessary. This study has never been conducted. The General agreed that privateisation of the banks should be investigated, and then we should learn a lesson from this study. This was approved in 2012, but governments that have embraced since that period have not established this committee of inquiry. Mr. President. 83% of the country's population declare that they are unhappy with the way they have dealt with this trade. It's almost everyone. In fact, the majority of the country's population were opposed to selling the share of the state in Iceland. But it's been so badly done that almost everyone is unhappy, and it's obvious, under the law, that the responsibility is economic and economic ministers. It's clear by law. Even if independents have voted against these laws in their day, they do not allow them to violate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. G. My Harðardóttir's love for the talk and is interested in having a place of words with her in the light of her story of this law because I agree so earnestly with her on how clear it is. I must admit that when I began to study these laws, I was surprised that there are, in effect, five paragraphs that completely frame it; what is required, what the minister's responsibility is, which is very clear of the law itself. In 1st. will be discussed in Article 2. the decision to make a sale therapy decision, in Article 3. the principles that apply, as stated in paragraph 4. for the sale and for section 5. ... ontherecording. To be honest, I think it's best to say that we are here at the Hall of Congress to reason deeply on whether the minister's responsibility is any one of the factors, since these issues are not often as clear as those. I've talked about it earlier today that I'm all for the government's release of this property. When you look at the report, forebearance, you see that possession, it was not the result of controlled government policy, but the result of a tragic situation, and it was not thought to be the basis for the government's lasting possession. But I'm worried about this right now because there's no trust, like what's wrong. A senator crossed. 83% of the population believes that these sales have not been successful. [[The president calls.]] I really just wanted to come up to agree with it with what. A senator says the legal process is very clear, and that is the responsibility of a minister as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u30	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, I find it hard to misunderstand these laws and interpret them in a way that involves some length of arm, that this is something far away from the minister when his responsibility and outcome are very well defined. In fact, on the Ministry's Web, there is an extremely good, clear picture that shows exactly how things happen and that a minister makes a decision every step. As the Bank Management Board has said many times, they applied these laws only and agreed with the government when each step was taken. So the minister's responsibility is clear. It has been said several times that since the offer was so intense, 209, the minister could not take sides with them at all. I can only imagine that the Bank County employees must have signed up to the Minister's logical support for each category. It could be this way: This is where your dad and uncle are, and they're offering so many millions. The second category includes men who have experience in banking. True, they do not have much confidence in that subject, but they are here. So are those in charge of the sale: they are of this category. And the international investment fund that got discounted at the last tender, sold immediately and made a lot of money, should we not let them take their turn again? [[The president calls.]] There are various ways to gain the documents in the hands of the minister; he could have figured out what was involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u31	Mr. President. Yeah, that's what I think. In fact, when you look at the laws, the means, and the goals there are drawn up, on transparency, on equality, on objectivity, and on the goal of promoting active competition, I feel that it's an independent problem with these sales that the competitive show has somehow been forgotten, I don't know how to describe it in another way. But I've found that when the executives have spoken up and called after it, they feel like they're out of transparency, that there's a lack of information and that they have to put the cards on the table, they're just watching the manager there. I think it would be important for all the public in the country, if it is the government's rivalry to restore trust, that we get to hear the story of what the political conversation was in the administration home in leading the sale, in the leading of the auction. What were the goals? What were the conversations? What was the goal? Why did the government's decision to go to a closed invitation in this event? Well, that's a good argument. But this open and productive conversation is lacking in the purpose of the invitation. It is obvious that governments are running a long way from an unpleasant situation, but I want to ask them why. A senator whether it counts as material and reason for the Ministers, e.g. in the Minister's Committee on Economics, leading this conversation, but not merely to the Bank Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u32	Mr. President. I think it's the most important thing that we get it straight what was going on. Let us not forget that a body of elders, like the chairman of a man. The legal committee explained so well today, in the meaning, following a presentation from the Bankand Ministerial Report, that it was being searched for long-term investors, large investors, preferably with good experience with banks who were able to stand behind the bank in difficult times but would not just jump in for a few days to make any money. That is why we were told that the discount was for the good investment at the table. Therefore, a discount was to be given. That's why you have to look at the list and look at the amount of money that was given to people to post in this invitation. The lowest offer is just over a million dollars, and it puts it all into a whole different context. The responsibility of the stewards is because the law says that a minister should review each step. If he hasn't, then it's a failure, and if he's been backed up by a Prime Minister on the Ministry on this matter, then it's certainly all gonna need to be discovered, and I hope it will be in the discussion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u33	President. It's nice to find out on the second day of this special discussion or the secretary's report on sales in Iceland Bank. I'm going to start by saying what I've said before, that I think it's important that it turns out that I'm too proselytizing to get rid of the government's ownership at the bank. Not that everyone in this room feels that way. Some have made it clear today and declared it, but a great many others have become overly disintegrating and have been doing it both in the process we just completed and also in the previous process. I just think there are no overexcited number of people in this hall that are standing by the right way to get rid of this possession and that it is more correct for the privates to run the banks than the state. I've been over it before tonight, and I'd like to remind you that now we've got 108 billion into the state fund, 108 billion for this thing in the bank, and we still own 42.5% at the bank. The state's situation is certainly strong to get rid of this money, and we can use it to reduce debt but still have the biggest share in the bank. So I am convinced that selling Iceland was the right decision. Here in the hall often comes the debate over the collapse of the bank, and what happened at the last privatization - I can readily understand it when people out there think about it and feel a certain fear. But as we sit in this room, we should know that the regular environment around a bank is completely different from what it was. Since there have been about 30 prime signals passed through the council from a bank collapse, the bank record is quite different today. These were my main concerns and questions to the budget board, when it came to this part of the invitation, on the one hand, how much the pension fund was likely to take from this section and how large they were at the bank market over the head, as well as at other loan markets, to be with a large part of the housing market. This is exactly what has been discussed here only today, and it was a major part of our discussion with a financial committee, how this would affect the competitive environment. In other words, I'm saying, as I think the pensions could be good investors, that's also the flaw. We're a small community and they're a bit busy. My other cheek was about war in Europe and whether it was having some effect. I found excellent answers to my questions and questions. I've said it here in my speech that I was saying that this method, this method of tenders that was described, would be primarily designed to obtain bigger investors, which would be more likely to be inside the bank for a long time. It was never written that those who came in should be inside at some particular time and there never came a request for it, that I best know, and I'm not sure it's a good idea. So it would be a guarantee that as soon as you put a lot of money in a bank, it would be unlikely that you would leave the next day or a few days later because it would affect the price. I also described it in a speech that when I start reading all my data, there's nothing to explain. It's just too clear what the purpose of this sale was. The government's risk was to be reduced by a large part of the financial system. It was promoting active competition in a financial market. It was to maximise the financial recovery of holdings and items, to promote a wide variety of healthy and spread long - term assets, to increase investment opportunities for individuals and professional investors, and especially to reduce debt or to increase the State's allowances for social interest investments. All of this has been very successful. But am I completely satisfied? No, I'm not. When I read the list and saw that the number of people who had bought had very small sums, money that I just think normal that the person had bought at the market the next day when they opened but were not participants in this closed funds for qualified investors. So I wondered, " Why didn't we have some minimal amount of money? ' If we'd had between 50 million and 100 million, we wouldn't at least be wasting our energy on the discussion that's been a little in the last few days, because it's about these people who have a few percent or less than 1% in the bank. I admit that this debate did not arise, and that is one of the reasons why I am quite impatient that the government's banking department was not allowed to open up to us on a budgetary committee this morning as announced two or three weeks ago. This is the question I have for the Bank Office: What discussion took place within the Bank Office on the need to set some minimum amount of money or reasons for that passage not being made? It may be that just someone out there who knows this market better than I can have that valid answer, but I don't see it and I need to answer that question. In all its data and answers, the banking agency has said that this process has not been handled as the charges have been made, and many stories have been reported, i.e. that all who qualified and met these criteria could have shared in this commission. This is also one of the things we need to ask about and to be absolutely convinced because it is utterly annoying that as important a process as we were in here, the release of this property has caused a measure of credibility. There's been all kinds of stories going on in the community about how the other one and this one got into the auction, not being qualified, having friends and relatives who were selling, etc. We know all these stories. We need to have clear information from the State Bank Office that all the conditions set out there were met. If there are any offenses, we need to roll with all the stones, for we are not to accept the fact that something is wrong in the same important matter as what is involved. Once again, I repeat: we have some very private questions for the Bank County. The banking board has to attend a financial committee meeting where we can review this and they need to convince us that they have followed all the conditions outlined. I hear in the media that even the president of the Bank Office has declared that it is very strange, e.g. If the sellers themselves, the dealers, were buying. I admit that when I hear such stories, I'm going completely crazy, and I understand that the Bank Office is just having it checked on its side and will not fulfill payment to non-committal parties. So it's clear that we have to roll with those rocks. We need to find answers to these questions. I also think it's very important that Government Accounting completes its revision and very quickly so that we here at the council get that information. There's been a lot of discussions about the General Research Committee. I've said that I won't mind if there's anything in these opinions that we've already started, there's a reason for setting up an investigational committee. But I think it's more important to get the answers sooner, soon as possible. Of course, many of the questions we are pointing to the Bank Office were to be in the presence of the decree, and it is incomprehensible that they could not come today and answer those questions. But the questions that have followed need to be answered immediately. We need a General Accounting study to review these factors that have been specifically mentioned and, when finished, we can hopefully conclude that, in all principle, this has gone well and can continue to clear up our holding parts in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you. In contrast with some that we have heard here tonight, a senator before a speech that was quite challenging. I would like to ask: Now it's that way. A senator wrote an article in which the discussion was beginning with great weight and said, with the permission of a president: I must admit that I had no knowledge of this arrangement, but the report and visit from the Bank Office and other visitors made me believe that this was a good arrangement. Today, the case of some members of the council has been made clear, even at the highest level. Secretary of finance itself, that there was a limit to information and the lack of transparency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator where she believes that these elements are most evident when it comes to the preparation and implementation of the sale and whether it lacks information in this report provided by a financial committee in preparing the sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The main points I can see, and the two questions I was waiting to ask the Bank Office about this morning were the ones I mentioned earlier on the minimum amount of money. I can only imagine that idea at least woke up at Bank County, and they wondered if there was any reason to suggest a minimum amount of money or not. In view of the fact that they did not, what was the basis for this? The other goal that I find obvious is that they didn't think a list should be published. It was their first reaction to believe that the art is not relevant, not for financial ministers, and not for the general public. I'd really like to know if the Bank Management Board got this question from sales agents for the auction and how they've answered it. These are the two major problems I've seen, but they could be more. That's why it's so important to have this conversation with the Bank County.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u36	A respectable president. The release of the list does not represent the preparation and implementation of the tender auction itself. About the other one as a dog. A senator mentioned them, perhaps I'd like to ask them a question. A senator: Does she feel that this has not been the case? Secretary of finance, in view of his overexploited role in dealing with the State's holdings of financial assets, when it comes to making a decision for sales, to take a stand on the issues that arise, and in effect limit the entire sale? Got it. Is it reasonable for a senator to expect the Bank Office to somehow build such rules if they are not expected in the formula provided by the minister, in view of the scope of the task that the Minister plays and should oversee all this process, put the box ahead of time, and make decisions at all levels of the process? [[The president calls.]] Isn't this just an example of something that, if we feel that we are lacking, is there a direct responsibility for a minister rather than the responsibility of the bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. In fact, I forgot to mention one thing that I also feel is an obvious goal, and that is to hear that salesmen themselves have been buying and inside. I also feel that it sounds like an obvious problem that needs to be crossed. In fact, I believe that the presentation of the art is also very important because part of it is about trust, credibility, the transparency in the process. Then I feel like I've been on board all day, always, that a list of those who bought in this auction would be published. I think it's part of the problem. I've understood it so that it is actually the Bank Office that suggests that we go to the sale and suggest this method. V.E.G. The secretary writes a paper that is largely based on the logic of the Bank Office, so I would like to first take up the conversation with the Banks on this matter regarding the minimum financial level. As I said before, there may be good reasons for that, I just haven't seen them. Hv. A senator is inquiring about the responsibility of a minister, and I have said that a minister is responsible for the whole process, and he has not compromised that responsibility. [[The president calls.]] Then, too, let us remember the goals set out in the sale and where we are in relation to our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir My Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is that selling these valuables to the general property is very important. There's a lot of value, just like that in the banks. We still have the Lands Bank, the State, and the nation. We still have less than half in Iceland. There are some things that are out of the ordinary, so I'd like to ask them why. Senator: Is it not boring that we are in a position now that we cannot sell these valuables? We're stuck. I'm just going to state here that this government will not be trusted to sell more banks during this terms. The left movement is already at large and the backland is not going to lend more money to these banks. That is why I would like to ask, in view of the value of those values and what could be done for those valuable things in our country when we are fighting the debt that they are: Is it not a little bad that we cannot sell?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u39	President. Thank you. In response, a senator is pleased to hear what a good link he has into the VG and the backlands there. I hate that we are in that discussion. I don't like the stories that have been around that undermine the credibility of this process. That is why I feel that the answers to these questions are very important to me and that we are rolling all the rocks. That is why I also said at the end of my talk: "I hope that the conclusion will be that we get an assessment of this from Our State Review, and it becomes evident that, in all principle, this was going well, and since somewhere there was a goal in fixing it. So I still have expectations that we can get rid of more property in Iceland, but I also realize that it will not be done until this is over and that it will probably be done only on the open market, i.e. in a general auction where everyone can participate. This will probably mean that we will have to sell a slower, small amount into the market at any given time in order not to affect the price. [[The president calls.]] But that is exactly why it was not done now; this was thought to be a way to collect the prices and gain more value for this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u40	Mr. President. You see, this is exactly the case. We are in a very difficult situation, and this difficult situation confronts us and is real and real because of its failure. We are in the position that the buyer's art was the way it was, the question is, Was it reasonable for a minister of finance to have walked away from the sale when his relatives were among the buyers, that sales counselors themselves were buying, which means that they are on the pay of selling property to themselves by discounting the state? We're paying them to buy the government's property by discounting and making money. All these factors will make it impossible for the nation to trust that they will be able to sell it, no matter whether we have the Bank County or any other arrangement for it. That's what I think it is. I think it's the monopoly. Simply put, it will be the signature of the Independence Party in this case to have screwed up personalization so that the sale of property will be impossible. [[The president calls.]] One more thing. Hv. A senator spoke of her having a lot of open questions to the Bank County. I'd like to know, don't you have any open questions on a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u41	Madam President. I have these two or three questions going out at the Bank County that I was going to get an answer to this morning and will ask for at our meeting on Wednesday. When I spoke of a number of outstanding questions in the bank business, I was referring to the list sent to the Bank Office. In fact, some of them have little to do with the Ministry of finance, but not exactly with the secretary of finance, no. But as I repeated earlier: Secretary of finance is responsible for the whole process. Then we also need to remember what the goals of the sale were and whether they have been reached. And just as I read before, all the big goals have been reached. It doesn't change the fact that I'm just as bummed over it as I am. A senator, of course not, is that we pay 700 million to sell in the bank and that they themselves are buying. It's totally unacceptable to me, and I assume the Bank Office will react if it's really true and true. But, hey. A senator is beginning to talk about the completion of this expedition. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. A senator so that we combine to roll with all the stones, increasing our credibility in the community of the environment that we have built here at the General Assembly, so that we can make sure that we release more money to make use of other important projects for all of us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u42	President. Perhaps only after the last answer to the result of this campaign. Hv. The senator noted that all the main objectives have been met. Nevertheless, we are in the position that the government itself has issued a declaration that because of its failure to promote its sale. The judgment could not be clearer to the fact that these goals were not achieved when the result was reached. So I want to ask you why. A senator's concern is for these investments in the interiors that she mentioned in connection with the sale when this is settled according to the government itself; not for the continuation of the sale. I'd like to add that I too would have wanted to see those amounts go into subsidies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u43	A respectable president. It has been made clear that while not all stones are rolled, the sale will not be continued. The more important it is that we combine to ask questions and get answers, that we turn all the stones around. I'm just going to reiterate what I read earlier in a talk about the purpose of continued sales: to reduce the country's risk of such a large financial share. We've certainly done that, and I want to go further, and I can unite with you. Senator on the importance of this. To promote active competition in a financial market, to maximise the reimbursement of the holding and selling of items, to promote a wide variety of healthy and distributed resources over time. We've done it. We have one of the largest public stocks in Iceland today around Iceland, which has a lot of credibility on the market. We were going to expand our investment opportunities for individuals and professional investors, and especially to reduce debt or increase the State's scope for social interest. These are the big goals. We have succeeded, and we need to keep moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u44	President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator dressed out well over the goal of promoting active and natural competition. Yes, she called the word competition, but in what way was this aspect of the sale endeavored to promote active competition? What was the success of the government in this phase in this regard? We have the opinion of the Contestant Board on the situation of the Icelandic bank market for competition. We've got a set of actual business figures for the competition of the Icelandic bank. So I would like to get it out, because there is a purpose in selling it, a special goal in the law on sales therapy, that always strives to promote an active competitiveness in a financial market: where does it take place in this business phase?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u45	President. I believe it belongs to a private bank rather than to the state, I don't talk about when the Lands Bank is in the state, increases competition, and is the best way to ensure an increased competition on this market. I also think that the main reason we need to get rid of this money is because the banking system is and will in the years that have changed completely, completely, with new technology. We're seeing more and more companies come into the market only once knocked. I think it's better when such a development occurs that a company is owned by a private person. A competitive attitude was certainly there, and certainly a discussion was made on a budget committee, and we talked about it. how important it would be that not only were the pension funds that were owners of the bank, and the rest of the banks, but they were also the means of holding a wide variety and a number of people. It certainly was achieved in this tender eviction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u46	President. I find it very interesting to say that all the major goals have been achieved and still possible to screw up so much at the same time, that the secretary of a family is selling a family member, that potential sales are possible to sell himself or linked to sources, all in the name of achieving the major goals that are somewhat vague. A balanced long - term possession, which was the goal? Spread possession, what does it look like? What did it look like in advance? How do we know that this goal is really accomplished? I think that's definitely over, but what were your expectations? It was also said in the second sale that it was for the scattered ownership of letting the smaller members in. Like what? A senator mentioned in his speech has given us 100 to 110 billion for the sale, but if we hadn't wanted 30 billion more, that is 1%, 1 percent, of the gross domestic product of the year in Iceland, that is. The difference between what the market price and what market price was said in the original text? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We lost 30 billion there, didn't we miss something?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u47	Mr. President. I want to start with this last one. I'm about to say that the first bid went quite well. In fact, most people feel that way. But I do respect it. A senator is still talking about it. When we went to that part, we had a good time. You see, a senator was more concerned about what had happened in the first part, and he resented it. I prefer to read that the senator's will simply doesn't exist to privatize the banks, that it's not his special focus. I can't see that these calculations are like that. A senator has claimed that we have somehow been losing money, literally working out. But then the first question. Supporting a wide variety of healthy and long - term distribution of property - we have today 15,000 shareholders in this bank, this is one of the largest public stocks in the country. There are also all the major pension funds and big investors, foreign and domestic. So: Yes, I can see as much as that goal has been achieved. And it is also important to remember the rules we have set: once the person has become an active shareholder and has become 10% he must meet other conditions and even greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u48	President. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How did she feel about the presentation of professional investors and others? The reviews of those who appeared before the committee were always given similar examples, such as the pension fund. I'm sure it's the pension fund that gets it, in fact, it was what some clients said after all. They'd be the only ones with the T-shirts to come into the sale at least here in Iceland, on the basis of a larger proportion. Today was the day of the Supreme Court. Ministers that they had not wanted the pension fund, just because of their competitiveness, and therefore prevented the pensions from gaining a large share in this trade. But I just got a report from the LS that they're over 5%, they just had a bigger share. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson reminds me that it was then at the expense of our pension. The discount went to those who were able to enter the discount. The pension fund was reduced there and had to shop at higher prices later, at the expense of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u49	Mr. President. I just don't see it the way it is. Senator. Right away. A senator talks about the cost of all of us, and I just think that we're all reaping a lot of money along with Iceland banks. Let's remind ourselves we got the bank in our arms without charge. I know there was a collapse, and we took some action, but it's been made up of gigant value from this bank. Today we've gotten 108 billion from this sale, and we still own 42%, as well as the money we've made. After what has been done with Iceland banking, the profits of the nation of all nations are great. And let us remember, of course, that there are people in the country who own the pension fund. Who was the other question again? A senator - about suitable investors. I've also considered that I thought it would be rather large investors, but it was quite clear what would be suitable investors. On the other hand, I find it more serious - yes, it is clear in the law, and it is clearly stated in the evidence - the narratives you hear that some salesmen may have been changing their business records. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if that is true, we need to go into it. If there's anything in those stories, then it's got to be against the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u50	A respectable president. I just want to stop and call attention to the fact that it is 2 o'clock in the morning. We are talking in the shelter of night, all of this, a huge community matter. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that we're discussing a verbal financial and economic report. I'd like to ask the highest. President, if there's a financial and economic minister in the house and keeping an eye on what's going on here and what's going on. The secretary of finance would not want to arise and respond to what has been presented today and give a final talk, as is so common when a ministerial servant delivers a report. I'd like to ask a president if he can call the highest. Minister in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u51	V.E.G. The secretary of finance is registered in a house, and as far as I know it, he is following through, but it is up to him personally whether he will speak or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u52	Madam President. I was next to a public talk, and I was just about to mention this in my speech, but it's quite appropriate to do this in the President's conference management because it's very classic. Secretary of finance. He will come and hold his speech, the other one here until after his first response to his speech, responds to it, and then disappears. It was supposed to be a discussion with a minister about selling Iceland Bank, and he's had no part in that discussion, no one. The first speech, answers to the first talk of another senator, has gone. This is his mode of operation. It is only that he is specifically called for to be seen from time to time. I'm calling for a financial minister to answer this question. He said in the explosion field the other day that he did not interfere with discussing this matter, but the talks have not been many or the conversation much here today. On those notes, I feel abnormal that it is past two o'clock in the morning and that a meeting is still going on. [[The president calls.]] There are some members of the council who, for various reasons, may not be able to stay at night for various reasons, family reasons, and the like, and I believe that it is simply keeping them away from this discussion if they are to continue into the night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u53	A respectable president. I have to agree with what was said. Senator. It was very sad here today, just how high it was. A minister of finance turned aside from questions directly addressed to him. For example, I gave him special consideration to the way he had fulfilled his role in Article 4. the law on selling property of the State's financial institutions, how he had, as it were, made sure that his decision and regulations, recorded and unsupervised, were laid for a reasonable foundation. In fact, there was nothing from a minister but pimps and cheers. He walked around here, marching, and pissed off his hair and beard and answered a little, and he hasn't really been seen in a house this evening. I feel that this discussion here, and this verbal reporting will lose its mark if it's the highest. Minister won't come and have a place to say and at least Draw a little together and respond to the comments that have been made here today, evening and night. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u54	It wasn't time to finish this before, so I'm just gonna finish this right now. Of course, not everything is so bad not to be a little good, at least has been taking part in discussions, talks, and objections. But there's a secretary who's moving the report. By the way, they have been exemplary in this respect. I'd say she was acceptable in this conversation. Come on, but more ministers, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u55	A respectable president. I want to say what's at the top of it. Secretary of the budget. I know he's in a house, and I'm sure he's keeping an eye on these discussions. I would have liked to know if he would not include this discussion. One of the things I missed in a sermon. Minister, there was actually one thing I missed, a huge thing that is competitive and how the competitive show has been ensured in this trade. The minister didn't review that show, nothing. For me as a spokesman trying to push out a financial fair, this sales play a key role in trying to promote competition. I would have liked to have a place to talk to at the highest. Minister on the exact aspect, although there are naturally a large number of other factors that need to be considered better. I missed it, so I hope to do so in this most important discussion. Ministers, come down here to the council chamber and leave. of this aspect of the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u56	A respectable president. I just wanted to say what happened earlier. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I feel that in many ways, the discussion here in this matter has been exemplary in this way so that members of the board have been deeply involved. They have even taken the time to confront us in the government of opposers and have started a serious argument about this bank sale. As a result, a man has a lot of facts, I must say. I'd like to see this creature more often at the Senate Hall, because I really think this will improve our work and our work here at the council. I'm also going to say that I've often felt the highest. Secretary of finance, especially when we were discussing issues related to the economic activities of Covid and something like that, felt that way. And yes, I can quite state that there would be nothing worse to get him to frame this just in. But mostly, I just wanted to celebrate the fact that the executives have been deeply involved in this discussion, and that's very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u57	A respectable president. I would like to agree that this discussion has made a difference, and although it is now a long time for three speakers and some speakers after it, it shows that the council can be active in a discussion and can have a critical argument in the Senate Hall. Of course, it has been discovered that the members of the board are grueling back and forth, and it is difficult to answer and read the cards, e.g. With regard to the forwarding party, what cases have been discussed within the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. There are very vague answers, and for example, I would have wanted a clearer picture in this aspect. This week, it seems to me that we're going to get very involved in discussing this exact matter in an effort to make the most of it. This day has been of great benefit, and I want to commend members, both governments and government opposition, for having reached the matter with a measure of calmness and with the aim of trying to get information. How vital it is in the big film to build trust, as we all know!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u58	A respectable president. I'd also like to mention this because it worked well here with us today and I think it's done a lot for both management and government opposers and, of course, for the people out there who have been watching. There have been quite a few of them, and a great deal of interest in this matter, as we know. So it's all been very good. I wanted to have the highest. The chairman of the council, whether it is quite certain that this discussion will be continued tomorrow with the prime minister and if it is finally revealed what it will be and again if we cannot expect the highest power to be expected. Business minister, report to the council. Then I'm not talking about an unprepared question period, but only a more detailed discussion, for as so clearly stated in each speech after the second, it is obviously a matter of great importance to the highest degree. A businessman better explained his approach to the decision to start this sale, why her viewpoint, for example, became clear. Under the Minister's Committee and until after the streets. It's just a big deal we need to get straightened out on the Senate discussion about the bank sale this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u59	The president wants to propose a special discussion with the Prime Minister in the afternoon, and I expect it to happen. Regarding the continuation of the council work this week, there will be a meeting with members of Congress before or at noon tomorrow, and other factors will be considered that include: has other details about this and the Senate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u60	President. I wanted to do a little more research on what I briefly discussed in the previous talk and in a few answers to explain what this means that a minister needs to examine individual offers. There are certain responsibilities that a minister has because in the laws on selling property, it is a minister's decision, after evaluating the proposals made by the Bank Office, whether to sign contracts or not. Now, it is very clear in the act of the law that it applies in particular to proposals, that each of them needs to be considered. When it is generally offered and there is equal power among all when it comes to buying, there is no need to examine each one. And then I come to the important point that I would like to try to explain: This does not mean that the minister of Private and personally picks up the red extracting pen and strokes: No, not that offerer, no, not that offerer. This is not how it is done. This means that a minister is caring for his duties as minister, his responsibility, his administrative duties, he is asking questions about all the offers. He may see one offer, saying: "This offer does not look like it's from someone who is qualified for professional investments. Or he might even ask in general: Are all of this list suitable for professional investments? Has it been examined? In fact, he asks his administration to observe the logical opinions expressed by the Bank Office on the responsibility he is to examine the outcome on the basis of the conditions and conditions he instituted. The banking board first says, "We're willing to sell. The minister says yes or no, and if he says yes, he sets certain conditions for the sale: I want it sold to a larger owner. I want it sold to qualified investors. I want, for example. that there are no stake ties or anything that has anything to do with sales, etc. He puts in a set frame, which the Bank Management Board then enforces. But the law is set up in a way that the Bank Office will bring it back to the minister in order to determine whether or not those goals were achieved. There must be a minister and be sure of that. He could do it personally if he wanted to. It's probably not too smart, but he could do it. Justice minister did so with disastrous consequences in the National Court case. But he could, or he could ask his administration to answer the questions that a minister has to cover his duties as ministers, obvious questions like: Am I not selling my father a bank? That should be an obvious question because there are such things that need to be taken care of in the law of money fraud and terrorism, in the Minister's Code, in the administration laws on incompetentity. What's important to realize here is that a minister can't escape his obligation to the administrations, to examine the findings of the Bank Office on the implementation of the sale. Otherwise a secretary would just be a signing machine. He's got a job to do there. Mr. Secretary has a role. If he did not have a role, he would simply be a blind signing machine with nothing to do with it. Then we wouldn't need a minister. But it's written in there. It specifically speaks of a minister's decision and legalistically it just means very complex things, but very clear about, for example. inability and neglect. We need to be clear about the fact that when we say that a minister should have looked at the proposals, that is in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u61	A respectable president. I come back up here to figure out a line I started earlier, but I couldn't quite finish. It has to do with this contingency on what happened with this bank sale. I allow myself to criticize the request made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs for Government Review. I believe that both the cause and the demurrement of this observation of disrepute. On the one hand, for the reason that the state accountant's law and review of state accounts are not expected by the government to take the initiative in considering The Kingdom Accounting. It is not expected in the law that the government can specifically request an assessment of the state's mind on the matter and even more so that a review of these requests is accepted, as it seems to have been done in this case, and on the same day even more so, without a limitation and schedule of how the investigation should be conducted. And then, of course, you wonder, " Why is there a special reference to a currency warrant in the Government Accounting Report? ' All of this is something that must be explained and that all I suppose is that a administrative committee and a surveillance committee will be informed about this. We need to keep in mind that a state accountant is a U.S. secretary and is represented by Generalis to supervise the government's financial affairs. It is very difficult for the government itself, the surveillance parties who hear under Article 2 of the State but the National Resident, to seek to influence whether and how and in what area the General Assembly and its institutions are fulfilling this administrative surveillance role to the Commission. The other factor I went over, and I feel that energy dissociates, is the fact that the National Relations Programme to the government is represented by the Council of the 43rd. The Constitution, according to Article 3. track No. 46/2016 government traffic rather than other forms of government activity in accordance with law and careful government practices. Such supervision is under the authority of the Generals. As an examination of the People's Accounting is defined in this announcement, I do not fully see how its contents can fit into the legal domain of the Agency. I hope that maybe we can get a better explanation for this without wanting to interfere in any way with the progress of the Government Accounting program. Another factor that I think we only need to talk about here is that a government accountant's inspection is under way, actually, in the shadow of a political conflict here in the Senate about whether and when to appoint an independent NTSB. It does not improve that there is now no acting government accountant who has been elected by the Generals, and above that, the person who is today a government accountant who is conducting the Agency has applied for this very situation. We found out today. The General Assembly is now faced with choosing a new State accountant or selecting this party at the same time as the Agency's assessment work on this high political and delicate matter is being carried out. I think it's much preferable that there's a management and monitoring committee that actually takes custody when it comes to a political check on this case. I think there are many questions that arise, as I have mentioned, in fact, that it would be quite normal for the General's agent to take them into consideration, is that it is by far the most natural thing to be made independent of a research committee to investigate these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u62	A respectable president. I just want to stress that I think that these discussions have been good today, important, even though I have certainly missed other ministers, especially from the Ministry Committee on Economic Affairs. I don't think it would be enough to discuss this huge case and finish it by night, then have half an hour tomorrow in a special discussion, and then think that the matter has been closed and then some two minutes in unsupervised inquiries. You need to be informed and answer a lot more questions than has been answered today. It should specifically mention that I don't feel that we have received clear answers about the issues that have evidently been in the Committee on Economic Affairs on how to handle this sale. Clearly, the minister of culture and commerce has made comments, and the comment has not been answered. We have not even learned where those comments have been discussed, whether they were broken down, or whether they took place in a grammatical discussion of these comments. I've also wanted to draw it out and to emphasize that the government and the government ministers cannot give up administrative responsibility and take it over to the state of Bankiscation. That's not possible. State banking is an independent government agency. Although it is said to be special under law, it has all the conditions to which it belongs and belongs to government agencies. The minister commands the administration of the Agency, and it is quite clear that when he receives suggestions from the state's Bank Office - and a good sign, the Bank Office of the State says that in all this process, there have been no comments from the government on their proposals, that was the only one with the list. It's just that such a list is mentioned by itself. You shouldn't be knocking on your chest and claiming it's some political bitch. It's just part of an open, transparent community, a community of information, especially in such large and big cases, that such lists of buyers are available: it's a normal, simple, clear demand. However, ministers cannot excuse themselves from the responsibility of making a legal decision. It follows a specific study obligation, under administrative law, to evaluate it, to raise questions, to try to draw out what is involved in the decision to sign the suggestions made by the State Department of Banks. This has to go over, and this has to be examined. I'm not saying that it was made knowing that men were going into some sort of spin themselves. I don't feel that way. I simply think there was a mistake here. I want men to do it, and then they just have to admit it. Then there's the other thing I've missed in this discussion. Naturally, there is much focus on how the project was carried out, because it has reduced confidence in this sale, the extent that the government itself has provided further sales, and I don't think that government is hot enough to continue selling parts of the state of finance. But the other big thing is the competition. We live in a financial market few. Both OECD and the Contestant Organization have shown that we have one of the most expensive banking systems, financial systems, Europe, and even more so. - 30 seconds is not enough to talk about the Icelandic kroner. There's a huge part of our having this expensive financial system. There's a huge part of why we don't get foreign investors different than that they see just some lack of money or spin options and then they go out 15 minutes later. It's a discussion I would've wanted us to take this big picture, but we don't get any notes. We do not even get an opportunity or a time, let alone a minister's opinions on how we can take on the task of ensuring competition in a financial market, pushing out the few. It does not happen on its own by altering property, by moving property on banks from the state to the pension funds that are still largely part of the labour market or companies on the market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are things we need to review much better. I'd like to guess with the President that repercussion will follow after these matters will be discussed at the council this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u63	A respectable president. At the end of the last legislature, significant changes in child protection were approved here at the General Assembly. It was decided that politicalized child - welfare committees would be put down and instead that a new child - welfare organization would be established within a community with larger child protection districts. Instead of child - welfare committees, it was decided that rural society should be a child - welfare center. At the same time, rural communities in their cooperation would establish a section called the Children's Protection Council, which determines certain burdensome measures in child care. The minimum size of a district was set up for each district council of 6,000 people. The same population should be behind each child - welfare agency, although it would have to be permitted to provide a minimum population minimum if rural society showed minimal knowledge in their child - welfare service. The primary purpose of the change was to strengthen knowledge in child - welfare. A great deal of agreement was then and is still on the subject. It was prepared in a group of consultations with a local representative and adopted by all paid votes at the General Assembly. The law was adopted last June. It stated that the decomposition of child - welfare committees would be carried out after this year's completion of rural elections, in particular on May 28, 2022. A respectable president. During the second part of February of this year, my Ministry and the European Union had discussions about the induction of the changes and that they had been more time - consuming and larger than expected. On February 25 a formal address was received by the European Union of Iceland, where it was strongly requested that the adoption of child - welfare regulations and the Precinct of Child Protection be suspended for a short time. In the letter, we find what was previously stated about general peace of mind over the changes, which was thought to be a failure to support child protection in rural areas. However, it would be very extensive and complex changes that for various reasons would have been slower than expectations to introduce and prepare. The letter by the European Union also emphasizes the importance of child - welfare management management, and I agree with it. Few things are more important than the safety and security of children in this country. The goal of child - welfare laws is to ensure that children who live under unsatisfactory circumstances or children who put their health and development at risk are provided with needed assistance. Great and necessary changes in child - protection organization must in no way get in the way of these goals. So I recommend that you postpone child protection committees down to January 1, 223 and that a new system of child protection in rural areas with child care services and child welfare districts will be implemented. The bill aims that there will be no interference with child - welfare committees until January 1, 2023. Therefore, it is suggested that the general population of child protection committees, which are now operating on the basis of their current child protection laws and activities in the form to January 1, 2023. However, it will be assumed that a new Child Welfare Protection Committee will be authorized to vote for future district elections temporarily working until next year. The same rules apply to the vote for a new Child Protection Committee as so far. A respectable president. I am stressing that although this bill will be approved, societies will continue to be actively preparing for these changes. To further support this induction, I've appointed a special control group to introduce the changes to child protection law through the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, Company and Children's and Family. It is assumed that all rural communities will have taken care of an organization associated with the formation of child welfare services and child - welfare districts by October 1, 2022. Give them time to complete design and adapt the activities and activities of the new module before they begin on January 1, 2023. A respectable president. I have strong faith that a new organization of child care members of a rural society with larger child - care districts will be a great success in providing child protection in Iceland. Along with the induction of these changes, the latter part of the review of child protection laws will continue and will be expected to occur at the next autumn Summit. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u64	Mr. President. I'll agree with the highest. A minister that it is important to maintain the implementation of child protection in the country, and it is shocking that the new law has failed to do so but needs to postpone their implementation by means of this bill. I'd like to ask a practitioner's question because we're here for a single meeting week between the two-week conference sessions and the election's after the next recess, the district election that this primes. Then I'd like to ask what time frame we're talking about in the Senate's payment on this case because there's little worse than having to fix the bills again because there's been a mistake because of a hurry here at the council. That's how I hung up on what would be affected by the many articles of the child protection law in this bill and in 3 mg. Figures I'd like to be touched in 66 articles. It is very easy to miss articles or accidentally take in articles that are not to be taken into account just to study the child protection laws in order to ensure that the project does not become a new mess. Since this is not to be carried out until May 28, 2022, I would like to ask a minister if it is indeed the minister's understanding, and thereby may be our understanding, that the welfare committee has until after the county elections to complete this matter. Then we can meet Monday after election, a welfare committee can meet after calling the reviews for the next two weeks and doing this properly so that we won't have to stand here in the hall a few weeks later and listen to the minister's bringing a new bill of correction to something that got screwed up because of a hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u65	A respectable president. The general view is that the minister should not order the council or set a time frame or what it is like. However, it is quite clear that it is very important that there is the first possibility that this delay is granted on the part of the Generalis. I'm not going to evaluate it here whether it needs to happen this week or after local elections, but, anyway, if for some reason it's not approved for the time it is going to take to set up one district authority on the country with the rights to work out of the laws presented here. So the sooner you can complete this matter, because it is relatively simple, it only turns to delay the recording of the number of months, the better. There's nothing else in this bill, but exactly the delay, so the sooner you can explain it, and get the message to your team that the General has approved this postponement, the better. It would be irresponsible not to continue working on some emergency arrangements for this to go into effect until it is approved by the General. So the answer is simple: The sooner it becomes, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u66	Mr. President. This is an impossible time frame that we face and surely can pick for many reasons. I see the Ministry doesn't get it on its board until the end of February, so it's clearly been won pretty fast. It's only a half month before the election, which is a certain time point in this and then another half a month until we have to finish it completely. But I understand the Minister's words, such as that the council can work here with confidence that we have until after the election to do this, and we have to give ourselves the exact time because of the speed of this work at the Ministry, precisely because of the urgency of our work here at the council, because the things involved here are something we cannot accept. We need to be able to trust that this law will be 100%, it'll be on point and stick. In substance, I don't think there's any opposition, as the minister says. It's just about postponing a project that's not yet done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u67	A respectable president. As I say, it is in the hands of the Generals how they want to handle these matters. The rural communities were asking for longer intervals from the Ministry at the end of February to give themselves more time to the induction. I think it would be very important to be able to give the local community the answer for local elections that it would have been postponed. I would like to give the local community the answer that this had been delayed for the county election because it's a responsibility not to do it as soon as possible. In fact, I would have preferred that we could have given an answer for Easter, but it didn't arrive until the end of February, and then came in here. In fact, this is the only case that I stress that will be done with the matters I have made before the council, because the matter is the matter, despite the importance of covering it carefully and carefully, very simple. It was about to postpone the execution of all the changes we had decided to make and we agreed on here at the Senate Hall to do, from May 25 to January 1 next year. Others are not the changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u68	President. I'm glad it's putting down politicalized child welfare committees, even though they've been, great that they're doing it. I am interested in considering the reasons why children wait, and politicalized child - welfare committees will still be on the side of the nations. So that's even. change the order of scheme, as follows, and the transfer of case classes. Then you think, " Wait, what's the priority? ' Was it not foremost that politically appointed child - welfare committees - I as a child - welfare worker, apart from being sometimes in the Senate as a deputy, asked me: " Why wasn't it more important that these new committees with this new arrangement be established and followed up? ' I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether the reason for this lack of funding for this community's party is that it has not been determined how these committees will be and who will remain in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to thank a senator for this answer, saying, "No, it's not a transition to the Council, which is the main reason why this matter is being delayed. There are a number of reasons. In fact, I think that information will be very successful for children in Iceland and will allow us to intervene sooner so that we may have fewer child protection issues than otherwise with the Department of Education and Children. But I know that one of the main reasons why the project has been more complex than expected is that it is being viewed seriously by having two or three districts of child protection in the whole country. During the preparation of this project, there were much more district councils, or as many as 6,000 districts, than anyone wanted to go on the scene of the local community to discuss the possibility of having them even larger, and I think that this activity will become even more professional. That's one of the things that's taken longer. I think it's very sensible and in the spirit of the aims of these laws, which are increasing the knowledge of children's protection that this district will be available. I think it's very beneficial for the children to have this time if we tend to have fewer district councils, and the conversation between the Ministry and the Union community and Children's and Family Services, we can keep them smaller and bigger. This adds to your knowledge and places more first place in your children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u70	There was a law passed here when I was not a deputy of integrating child service. The rural communities expressed concern, financial concern about these laws. It's a huge law, there's a lot of changes, e.g. Advisors, and there's a lot of emphasis on that. What I'd like to ask in this context is why this situation did not focus more on resources in terms of integration, because it's something that's also been wrapped up and is one of the reasons why these updated Child Welfare Committees have not yet arrived. There was a lot of financial concern about these laws in rural society, whether it would really be able to get all the money they needed. So I direct a request to the highest level. Minister: Could it be that the integration law is the reason why these child protection committees are being delayed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u71	A respectable president. It is not that child - protection laws are delaying. Even so, we are making major changes in the whole system around children that it is limited as a government system, whether a state or a rural community, can work on these changes, not on the money - headed side, but on the basis of professional knowledge and other matters, while daily activities also need to be carried out. I think we're totally pushing this so we're going to the edge of it, but we can't go any further than that. That is why it is so important to listen when the call comes from someone who is bringing the changes and who is ready to dance with them. But as for the financial side when it came to success, all the funds came into which the local communities asked for into the success law of their time and for the induction of her first phase. It was always clear that the alternative would be in the next chapter and is about to begin and will be on top of the success law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u72	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill, which appears to be a simple date issue. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, why this matter is coming in right now at the end of April when there is so little left. We have three days left of this assembly week before the election and quite clear that the matter is quite urgent. Even though it's the highest. Minister says it doesn't have to be done by elections that I don't quite understand why this carelessness is. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to his earlier words, by permission of the president, I have appointed a special management group for the introduction of the changes to child protection by members of the Ministry of Education and Child Services, the units, and the Children's and Family Services. Ordered the highest. Minister of this group? When did this happen? I can't find any sign of that. I'm wondering if he can tell the council who is exactly in this group and how long they've been working.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before and told me that, because the senator said that I didn't stress that this would be done for district elections, I just stress that this will be done if possible but I have a complete understanding of it if the council is looking at things differently. It's the council that's running, not the execution. This matter was given April 1 and was repeated for the Passover. I stressed that they would be on the program, but there were other subjects that were very busy here, and that is why they were not on the program. This came to me in the second part of February, so the bill had come in here a month later, which is no unusual time for issues like the one who needs a lecture at the Ministry of Directors, the Ministry of finance. It took about a month to get into this council. I always stressed that this subject began to be on the program as soon as possible, and it was on the program, but it did not end. I can get information to why. A senator of all the operating groups and the committees acting on both the induction of this child protection section and the success legislation. [[Up front.]] I'll get them to what. Senator. But, of course, there's been a lot of good discussions between recruitment through the whole time, with Icelandic rural, Pedophil, and family clinics, we've been in a lot of contact with rural society. But I'll get you the information. The senator on dates of the formal orders of control groups, who are in them, and how this cooperation is conducted between the Ministry and the Company. I doubt that in any case, at least not in my Prime Minister's Day, they've had as much consultation and dealings with their communities as in child protection and the new welfare law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u74	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I'm just asking about this particular control group for the induction of changes in child protection law, and I'd like the answer to when that group was set up and how long it's been working. I just want that answer right here, please. When changing the law on birth and parentorof in December 2020, the more part suggested changes in the nature of ordering a Justice Department and Social Affairs staff to protect those who are approaching, i.e. Defend those who have been subjected to violence and who have been exposed to a restraining order on the other parent so that the person can use the violent birthworm rights of the parent. Of course, that group has not yet taken up my assignment and would be glad to hear at the top. Minister if I'm wrong. I've only been inquiring about this case and the businessman who deals with these matters and the stock of birth has no idea how they should handle these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u75	A respectable president. As I said before, I'll get information to you. A senator will discuss the procedure with rural society in this regard. I don't have it in my head, but I'll make it happen. Senator. I hope she respects me because I don't have all the dates clear, when all the management and staff groups and other members of the Ministry are appointed, and what time and exactly who are in them. [[Up front.]] But I'll make it happen. Senator. About the other matter as a matter of course. A senator named them does not hear it today. Secretary of education and child care. It is under the Department of Social Affairs, since the legislation law is supported by the Minister of Social Affairs. But I don't remember any better, and it may well be that I was wrong there, and then I apologize in advance, but the restitution of the law that was cited as a change in the observation law would have come into the council at the end of the last term. I don't know exactly what that case is today at the Department of Social Affairs but I can get information on these matters and see how they're being handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u76	President. Thank you very much. Minister of Education and Child Affairs for bringing this bill to us even if it's a little late. It may be, though, that if we don't have to look at just which part we're putting first when it comes to putting in bills, especially primes that are like this particular bill, we're talking about dates as we call it. In substance, I think we all agree that this bill goes through, and I might rather discuss how we seem to spend a lot of time fixing things or delaying things. Then I think we need to start looking at whether we are sometimes driving against the law too early and then they're taking it, whether we're putting it much longer than we should be doing in some cases, especially where major systems are being carried out. We need to be careful that even if elections are close, as they were when this bill was changed and this system was changed, and it was important for the highest power. A minister to be able to talk about having changed these laws, however, we give ourselves the time needed to produce such major changes. I also wanted to come in with the comment as a reason. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came along, which is the fact that there are a lot of articles in the bill and it's very easy to forget one article or two or even put in the wrong article. There is no need to look far back to the need to gather a council here, which was the last summer, because one article had fallen down into correction like this, one branch too much, and suddenly, the order of the list was no longer at the time of choosing. This is something I would like to direct to the president and council office. We're always here at our level of bills like this, I'm not talking specifically about this, but it's the form of a prime station, so we're saying that the following article changes like this, or the following article falls out, or the following articles are taking temporary steps. It is very difficult to see from such a bill and from such forms what the final law will look like. This often does not occur until a few months after the bills have been fixed here in the General body of law. It was just happening right now, just a short time ago, at the library. When we don't have what the final version of the law will be visible to us, it's easy to miss that we're forgetting some article, that we're completing some article, etc. which should not be eliminated. I think modern technology is relatively easy to perform so that we can see how the bills and the laws change, that we senators have a visual view to better appreciate the effects of such a long - term ending. For example, here is one paragraph: ▪ The Children's Protection Committee at the time. 2 mg. An assignment assigned to the Child Protective Services and the Children's District Council is given in 2 mg. 3. par., 6. y., b- and d-join 2.mg. 3 mg. 7. - And there's seven lines left of this. It is quite easy to forget something, and it is also very difficult for us who are supposed to be working at making sure that there are good laws above our heads to understand the changes this will bring. Yeah, well, we could print out the songs as they are and start trying to puzzle them all, but if we did that for every bill that comes out here, I don't think we'd do anything else. I would like to challenge the dignity of the president and the Senate to see if there is anything that can be done to help us read such bills and make it easier for us not to make mistakes. I know it's the highest. There's a lot better things to do than to come here and move another bill where we added or fell out one small branch. Of course, we need to make sure that this is an active and good child protection service. I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is important that they are not politically appointed as they have been. How sad that we have to wait until the next year! But let us, rather, hurry up and do this well, for here we are talking about how we deal with those who are in danger, the children we really need to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u77	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with the words of the senator who was before me. paritaprevir The importance of Gísli, the Rafn Ólafsson of Olafur. This is of utmost importance because we are here dealing with a number of legal measures, a variety of resources for the common people in the country. We're talking about sometimes a very burdensome, intimate service, various things that can have a lasting effect on people, and then we'll have to say this every week here, since I've attended a council over four years ago, to make sure that the legislation is performed in an adequate way. Sadly, all too often in the last government, with the highest. Certainly not innocent by the fact that a prime minister had attended a council too late. We talked about this countless times. I was always fighting with the highest. Minister on this exact thing. Why is it coming to the top? Again and again, with very complicated primes, expecting the Allied Council of Iceland to speed up and remove the regular committees, members of Parliaments with all background, to step in, and then to take care of the next few more? This is completely unacceptable. We've been in this forever. We wore the maternity law because I mentioned it, a very necessary change. And when you stand here in a pit, pointing out a problem on the case between the government in the others and these matters, it's always up here, and you are advised to be opposed to good things. I just want to state that I don't object that we make sure that child protection can work the way it needs to work, just before the top. Minister's about to sue me for that. I'm only asking for minimum professional skills here. We'll be cleaning up forever after the government, forever. This is not welcome. What an amateur. It is said that members of Congress are simply to be responsible themselves when they may get a day without expert advice to review the issues that come here in a long frame. It's an amazing situation, and suddenly I wonder why it's so late. This was here the week before Easter, and it couldn't be scheduled, and we're discussing this now, date. But there's so much in this date language. We're used to dating that there's only one line, that it's just a matter of postponement. But what happened to me this morning when I watched that bill was that I saw it as a whole page. It's date. I'm a law major. I can try to push myself through this without losing sleep. But this is not a simple date issue. It's not. There's a lot of other stuff in this. We need to be careful and we need to finish this before Easter, especially before the election, at least. it has to be replaced before the company is appointed two weeks after the election, first of all. There are literally endless references to law here. I need you to have minimal knowledge of the group in order to get your head through this and know what this is and what's going on here. This was not shown to be a good point in the talk of a publisher, the highest. Minister, who ends up announcing to us that he has organized a group of directors in the induction of all the changes that took place at the end of the last term, our last term, just before the government sent the Allied Council on vacation for an endless week and a month before elections. Of course, when the Law was being done, it was faced with the need for a great deal of research and induction on what we were doing. That's the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs and now the highest priority. The minister of education and child - care ministers has taken the seminary all the time. [[Foreground on, educated.]] I asked the simple question: When was the staff appointed? Was he appointed immediately after an approved law? Because when I look at all the control groups on the Board's web, this control group isn't there. When I've been asking about who's in the control group, I don't get any answers. I wasn't asking to know at what time a control group was appointed. I'd like to know how far the control team has made these big changes. I'm not talking about conversation between parties, because the highest. A minister said that he had appointed a mater group, that he had appointed a mater, not that he was about to appoint a mater. I wish to have honest answers here. If the highest. Minister is about to appoint a mate group, so I'd like to know. Then I want him to say, "I'm about to order a company. " Because there is no sign of this control group. We have a long list of operating groups on the Board's web. Why am I talking about this? Because it is important to know whether there is a general consciousness of the government on the induction of laws involving children and children around the country, whether it is a general awareness of the importance of the careful action of induction, or whether it should just do this somehow. These are extreme delicate lawsuits, absolutely intense. I've been with these groups, and I know how important this can be. This can be relevant to the life and health of all people in Iceland. It's not just some date. Because I'm here, I refer to another group of directors who were temporary at the maternity law to produce results no later than March 1, 2021. It was over a year ago that a control group was at its highest level. Child - care minister was assigned to appoint in December 2020 for changes in the birth code to protect children and a parent who suffered violence on the part of the other parent. This control group is not visible. This was a control group to produce results no later than March 1, 2021. You see, the one here is crying in the side halls to fight for the families who have only six months in their birthports because the other parent refuses to give up the rights despite the challenge to the parent. Seriously, I was standing here crying at the side halls trying to get executives involved in securing the rights of those who suffer such violence. They were horrified off the board by putting an interim rule rule team in order to investigate the extent and complexity of this possibility because I could not agree to a proposal from a government opponent, although I know a great deal about this series of cases because I was working in it. I talked to a lot of stewards, executives, and was trying to get them to understand what was going on. The months are between parents and the parents who suffer violence so grossly that the next step would be a restraining order, which is rarely used against the other parent, the child of that parent gets a statue of birthworm because it was due to appoint a working group, a team, a working group to be produced on March 1, 2021. Nothing has been done in this, and the stock of birth orcs doesn't know how to work this thing and the districts around the country, they don't know what to do with it. And who's going to lose it? Small children and parents who suffer violence. It's not a small date issue. We need to be careful with the application of the law, and we really need to dare also to listen to what the government has to offer at times. There are occasional people here who know something about things, not always, but occasionally it's okay to accept good ideas. But it is the minimum when we are making laws that we try to do what we can so that we will not always clean up after some mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u78	President. Thank you. A senator for a very special speech. Clearly, it is. A senator has very good insight into these matters, and that is exactly how important it is, as it were. A senator points out, using the experience and knowledge of the members of the council here on various matters, to improve them in the political treatment they receive. I know that changes due to this case were brought to the spring council a year ago, and I also know why. A senator was then on a welfare committee. So I'd like to ask you why. First, whether it was ever discussed on either the committee or by visitors, such as members of the local community, that the time to introduce it was too short, and whether we simply did not listen to them or whether they did not realize what this was all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it was said a lot about the fact that the time for induction was too short and good if we did not postpone the set time for the end of the years. It was supposed to take effect sooner, if I recall correctly. At any rate, the subject was well discussed. But, of course, we were at the same time doing some changes in child protection, changes in the Children's and Family, QA, home surveillance network, integration bill, so, of course, it was a really, really, really, really, really, really big job that one of the committees was supposed to do in one of those elections, elections, or half-avest, I can't remember when it came in. I say again and again, and I want to know the importance of being a member of Congress, because any work that goes on in such extensive legalizations goes down a little bit between the councils instead of just going on. Again, instead of just moving on, the situation is being measured. But, yes, it was far too little time for all the parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and it is good to know that the answer was made. How sad to hear that they were not followed as closely as possible! Hv. A senator also mentioned that the bills were late, and as a result, they were often handled very late. In this case, this bill was just taken out during the last few days of the council, something that seems to be quite fashion, and I would say, "I don't have a good fight here at the General Assembly. " Nothing seems to be done until the last week of the council. Then, out of nowhere, there are 100 primes to go through in ten minutes, which, of course, will make mistakes. Then we also cut short the discussion. We cannot get comments from people who are familiar with the material, and things go through too fast. I'd like to ask you what. A senator named e.g. that Congress should live between councils. I think it's amazing how they expect us to forget everything when we're supposed to take a vacation. It's just that we don't remember anything when we get back, and all the issues need to be measured again. It takes the same client to come and share the same comments and come to the same meetings to say the same things because we've forgotten everything. What does that count? A senator that enables us to improve our work habits when it comes to such big issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I want to come here with correction. The bill mentioned that the law should become valid on January 1, 2022, except for the provision now being delayed again, i.e. Regarding the order of Child Welfare and this District Council, they were to enter after the election in spring. Just so they're fed up. However, regarding these dramatic changes, on April 14 of this council winter, it was obvious that the work on it was not at all satisfactory. I can only say it here. I think it goes to Ministers, many of them, some forgetfulness when they walk out of the House because it seems that they forget the regular work done in the World Congress Committee, which meets twice a week with a lot of issues. It's as if they think that there's only one thing on the program at a time and that all the senators sitting and working this thing out with all the experts and institutions outside the house are in it only for the next two months. Of course, this would be best if it were possible, but it is not. We're meeting two times a week usually, with all the issues that are heard under the committee. Of course, it was a pleasure to hear it before it was finished. A child - care minister declares that this matter we are discussing today is, in fact, the only case that he emphasizes to be completed in this council winter. [[Up front.]] - That's what he said. It's just fine. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good thing. I just think it's really positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to read here from the bill: ▪ For various reasons, hopes have gone slower than expectations to introduce and prepare the changes. There are several factors, including elections to the Generals, changing the order of recruitment and implementation of lawsuits within the Iceland Board of Directories as well as the implementation of new legislation on integrating services in the interests of successful children. It is here, and I understand that this is why political security agencies have not been put down. I can't understand it any other way because these are the only information I have on this. There's also the mention of the Covid-19 epidemic, but that's just what you're saying here. I think it's rather serious because it's something that should be top priority. The fact that political security committees are still around people is strange to me, that they are being delayed and not put in high priority to ensure that this group of languages is very successful. We only talked about another phase. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that another phase was an option. I wondered, " How did I come to the conclusion that there was another phase? ' I find it very interesting because when I'm not here as a deputy, I'm working as a child-care worker and I don't have the resources, I don't have the resources. I am so happy that it is an integrating service. I'm not against it at all, and I just think it's very cool that it's under law, but that your options are out of priority and that it's not in the first place to shorten a waiting list, to provide resources in my community, in close environment, in school, that it's not in the first place, and that's in the second phase, I think it's rather sobering. How are decisions like those made? What are your priorities? What is the most urgent assignment at any given time? As it turns out, I have changed the order of recruitment and implementation of litigation classes to be more important than putting down politicalized child - welfare committees and predicting resources for all children who are on the waiting list all over town. Or it just doesn't exist. It's simply a huge amount of resources that are not available in Iceland. There are no options for children, and no one knows what to do. People who work in the child - welfare system, at the Service Center, and are working with these children all day - I think all of them can agree that what is not lacking are people to direct to resources, and that is what integrating the ministry is about. As I say, I agree very much that integrating requires the ministry, but I feel that there would have been a first phase decision, not a second phase. I hope that this second phase is going fast and well, and that the most vulnerable individuals in the country, the people who trust in rural society or the state, are actually going to be given a tremendous amount of money and power to make resources, not just for children, but for parents. When it comes to situations that are difficult and out of control, we should have resources for these people first, for those people who could be me or anyone in this room. There is no exception, for one day we need help from a rural society or the state. That's why I can't understand how resources can be in another phase, where the waiting lists and failures are so intense. It doesn't matter if you're in the capital area or where you are, there are no options. We've been talking about funding and a lot of changes, like a family and everything that's happening and it's all gonna cost a lot of money. They're about to appoint a painter, and there's gonna be a lot of mercs, and they're gonna figure it out. It is more important than tears that all of these are very good people working within the child - protection system, within our rural society, in the welfare system there, and also in the state, who lack enthusiasm for what we really need. We have all this wait list and all this discussion about waiting lists, anywhere, near the environment, with the country, it doesn't matter where, but it's as if it's not enough. For example, consider the life of a child and one year for a four - to - five - year child. How much is one year for this child in its development? That's a lot of stuff. And it's rather focused on the painter that, as I say again, I feel necessary, but I don't think that should be top priority. What should be top priority is options, more resources, a variety of resources. There should always be thought - out of options and in the other part. I'm glad that they're putting down politically appointed child protection committees. There are all kinds of things being done in the child protection system, but I feel that there is a need to take into account what is most urgent at any given moment. Mental health - and talk about all the services; speech pathologists, psychologists, physical therapists; just everything you can think of. They're waiting. You won't find out yet. For example, consider more specialized measures. resources for people who use violence, resources for raising children, with all kinds of things, with anxiety, depression, all of these? We're waiting. Is Psychological Service Done? No. These families have nothing. Families within the child - reform system who receive services from the child - welfare system often do not have financial resources to be able to use new resources, such as going to a psychologist's office. It's worth 20,000 bucks. every time and if you respond well, you should leave about 12 times. For children, going maybe once a week is 80,000 a month. No one can. And what will happen then? In that case, the children wait and wait, because there is not enough professionals who can care for them in the State or in the countryside. Such a long wait for a child is far more effective than, for example, the case. for an adult because one year in a child's life is probably like ten years in a person's life between 40 and 50. One year is really important. That's why I don't understand why all the emphasis isn't on options, and then the rest comes. I can't say that enough, and everyone knows that the movies are everywhere. Everyone knows there's a lot more service to be done in the vicinity of the environment. There need to be more professionals in school, in high school. They need to be professional in close surroundings in order to grab and agree with each family and teamwork. That may be what some of them are trying to do with the mercenaries, but there is still much more to do. What I would like to see is that all this work and all that is being put into the integration of the service is being planned. I just think it's realistic. Or it's not realistic to me, it's necessary, and it has to be done right away because every year we're having babies all over the town waiting list, after psychologists, after some sort of research in our rural society, we're also doing things that don't exist where everyone just shrugs and says, "I don't have a plan for this family. We do not have specialized resources for this family. Why not? Just because they don't exist in Iceland. So should we start sending families to Sweden? This is what's supposed to be first. This is what will help our children and our families to care for our lives. I don't know what to say anymore because it's so clear to me and clearly, I think, for most others. We need to shorten a waiting list. We need to have more resources, and they need to be more varied. We need to meet the person where he is. We need more specialized measures. But that's not what we're doing. But okay, there's a second phase where the options go and I'm really excited to see what's going to be there. I hope it comes fast and definitely, and there'll be a lot of consultation with the professionals, with the countryside, just with everybody, especially users, parents, because that's the people that's going to use our resources. It's the people who are the most important thing in order to succeed. I'm just saying, "Adventment is what should be first. " It's not a priority. I hope it comes first. I hope that the political institutions of Child Welfare will be put down as soon as possible, and all the funding and all the power will be put into this suit. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's extensive speech. It's good to hear her expert knowledge here in a drunk. She is a psychologist who works at child care, so it is her daily environment that she is involved in. I encourage those listening specifically to listen when she's in a pit and discussing children's issues because there she is professionally discussing the issues she handles every day. You see, it is the overwhelming lack of options that we face. Of course, the code of law we worked at last assembly was very important about integration, but we talked all along, at least for a while. we in the management position, that to keep children in waiting lists for months and years after the necessary analysis, e.g. on developmental impairment or behavioral problems can have a lasting effect on both children and their families. Well, all the families are involved. Now that I have come to the conclusion that I have held all homes for children in trouble but one in the country, and I wondered, " What will happen to children who have to live temporarily outside the home? ' Where do they go? Where do they stand? And I'd like to remind you that waiting classes are not the laws of nature. Clients are the political decision of the government to have an endless waiting list. For children who are in trouble, waiting lists for missing children, waiting for children who are in urgent need for mental - health care. [[The president calls.]] It's a political decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u84	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for her counter-sponsored response. Yeah, I agree, it's a political decision, that's just the way it is. There is a lot of money for that, for example. To integrate services and that's just great. But why is this money not used, at least as much of it, to reduce a waiting list? And don't shrink, let's just stop saying down. Let's get out the lists. Why Be Waiting? I agree perfectly, that shouldn't be a waiting list. It is not natural to be suspended and can be eliminated, but it requires the will and the means of money, and it also requires control. It needs to be properly controlled, and it needs to be guided by professional conduct and with the children and their children in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Another thing I want to talk to you about. A senator, in effect, is the job of child - welfare committees and child - care committees when one parent is having disagreements with the other parent and the decision that at some point in the process was made not to provide protection for their children. There is no intervention when a child is in the situation of obtaining, for example. not going to school, despite the endless announcements. Children's protection doesn't intervene. A child is kept away from school, keeps away from leisure time, keeps away from the other parent and family, and seems to be part of a child's protection program. Then you wonder, " How can I deal with it? ' Should not all children be protected from child protection, including children in a conflict with their parents or one parent?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u86	President. Yes, it is a very complex matter where there is a conflict between parents, and there is going to be a lot of work to be done. I do not personally work as a child - care counselor, so my expertise is not in this field, but I work as a psychiatrist in child care and I talk to children who have experienced violence and other things, so it's just very difficult. They're trying, those who work in child care - these are amazing people who are just doing things the day out and the day in which they are incredibly difficult - and there's no right answer or right decision because they're really on an individual basis at any given time, and they always need to take into account what's going on and how and all of this. Such acts of humanity and human tolerance need to be worked on, so it is not easy. These are difficult jobs, and I admire the people who spend the day working on child protection. Of course, issues arise and arise where something might be better handled, as in all, but that is, for example. It's good to have consultation and a good conversation because I know that Child Welfare Committees are very open to both the fact that people come up with their own opinions and are open to conversation, so I encourage people, if they have something to put on them, to contact the Child Welfare Committees of the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u87	Madam President. I may first agree with what the minister's background said, how important it is that it is a good way to introduce the change in the implementation of such important laws as this in order to ensure that any change in organization will not be affected by the treatment of the children to whom the law is to protect. That's why it's only respectable to hear the Minister here describing how much priority this is when he says it's really the only thing he stresses to be finished with the issues he's put before the council. Thus, although this is a matter that was not in the Congress, of course, it is presented in their order. But let us not forget the larger goals we have. paritaprevir Sjöfn Sjönfjög Helgadóttir came on so well, which is to get the development of child protection into a better way, leaving behind politically appointed child - welfare committees, start working professionally, and then start funding resources in order to get a proper hold of the root of child protection problems. But speaking of priorities, a minister has done well that he did not receive a tip from the Icelandic local Union until February 25th the need to postpone a new decision on child - welfare and child - welfare board. A month later, the issue will arrive on the last day of the donation and appear in the archives on April 1. A week later, it will be on the program for the first time, April 8 will appear on the program. In between days, financial discussions had been made, so it was clear that the matter would never be on schedule until after that discussion. So April 8 - It would have been impossible to expect something earlier. But what does it say about the political priorities of the government and its foreman here at the General President of the United States that the case at that point took place on the 17th program? There were 17 cases on the program that the president arranged for the council and did not normally attend. There were 16 cases ahead, and we didn't even finish all of them. Then came the foretold two-week break, so if the President of the Generals had listened to the Minister on the issue of priorities, how important it would be to get this case at port for the district election on May 14, next to us, we would not be here today to discuss this matter but would simply have preconceived it so that we would have discussed it before Easter. But it doesn't, and it says something about priorities because we are standing on the fourth meeting day for the district election, which is the time point in which this bill represents. It tells itself that the matter won't be over at that point, because we have a certain space, new rural governments don't take over until 15 days after the election, and that's why I have hoped that the welfare committee will be able to process this situation well, so we can make it less than the first week after the election in mid May. Why, though, is it dangerous to complete a matter that is said to be a simple postponement? Why is it dangerous to complete it in less than a week during conquistancy? Yeah, it's because it's not just a simple postponement. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir arrived in his talk, and we often put aside simple delays in the legal structure here in the conference hall, which usually involve the change of date to another date. So it's not changing here. It's a matter of weaving through all the child protection laws. It seems to me that there are eight different kinds of articles that are affected and affected. Some articles simply delay validation to January 1, 1923, but there are other articles in which child - welfare committees already assigned to their child - welfare services and district councils are assigned, which are listed and number 66. Thereafter, child - care committees are assigned to decide how to take measures according to yet other factors, so the misunderstanding of this procrastination is far more than we are to get used to. I don't mean to be mean to the Ministry, but they tend to make mistakes like all of us. It's just normal. We've just got a rather close-up experience. Two Prime Ministers of the Progress Party have turned down the prime complaint during this council, just after the year. A health minister rebuffed his bill for forced application, showing that needed consultations had not been accepted and received at the highest level. An inside minister turned down his bill for a cab drive because something was missing. It had just been forgotten to let it into the bill. What happens if something is missing in this bill? Yes, the children are so important that we protect them. I didn't even mean to say goodbye, but I was tempted to try and trace myself only through the changes that take place, especially in two articles. Here's why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir that since she was legally educated, she did not feel dizzy even if she went through such a complicated text. But I'd like to, Mrs. President, and it would be fun if there were some of the welfare committee at the gym to review this with us, but hopefully they'd consider this on the committee, they're watching the screen, but I'd like to point out just how the cross-references in the law could cause these changes to cause something to fall between ships and docks. In the law, we've got 13. and 3 mg. Its concern is that the Council of the State makes decisions by decision making. It refers to paragraph 26. The law, on how to operate without parental consent. What's done in the bill is this 3rd. 13th par. The law is placed in the hands of Child Welfare Committees who continue to operate, according to Article 3. The bill. This is where the Child Welfare Services are assigned to decide whether or not to use resources by ruling. The decision is a small key when we look here again at Section 26. The law, because in another part of the bill, 4th. mg., says: 2 mg. Decisions on measures according to the Treaty 1.mg. In fact, it could be said that it had already been done, once the Child Welfare Committees have already said that it is a ruling because it is a 3 mg. 13th par. The law. Except, if we look at this 1st mg. Twenty-six. Then there's more in that paragraph than the task of ruling. It seems to me that the bill text has only been taken care of as a matter of child protection and district decision. But in 1 mg. Twenty-six. reports that if resources have not worked in the assessment of child - welfare services or that child - welfare services have come to the conclusion that they are insufficient, then children's welfare services can be asked at the district council to determine the decision. I don't see that the first part of this sentence is taken anywhere in the bill. An assessment of success has been made, the finding that the measures are inadequate, the request that it be determined - I think this has been lost. Maybe I'm wrong, hopefully. But there is something that a health committee needs to be sure of. And a welfare committee has to be sure that in each of the 100 articles that are being changed this 80% of the articles, each of them is sure that every act of the law is insured by the changes proposed. This is not one of the biggest projects the General has ever done. However, it takes time for us to be absolutely confident that this has worked. But the Generals president did not put any priority on putting this matter on the front of the program, nor did he stress before Easter to negotiate with the government to allow this case to go through quickly - it's not until this week, the week before the district elections, which, suddenly, are going to be discussed. But it is because of the delay of the General President who we face that either this case is working badly and that we accept it before elections or we are doing it well. I think in a situation like this, the second option is always the only option. In view of the time we have to run after election, I hope that the welfare committee will find that they will not be too quick on this issue but will tear it down completely and then bring it back into the assembly room to 2nd. and 3rd... and to give up the week after the district election, because it is important to work on the induction of changes in the implementation of these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. Now he was sitting here during the last term when the bill for a law now being delayed was for discussion and treatment and approved at the Council. The major change was that child - welfare services were in an area of a minimum of 6,000 inhabitants, a group of rural communities, and then the Children's District Council of Children's Protection. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he considers this directive to be the modern - day call, is strong enough to increase child protection in the country. I noticed why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said it was too short, the General didn't have enough time to discuss the situation, etc. Does he believe that the changes that are now being delayed on January 1 to 223 are satisfactory or not? Is this a highly advanced law now being delayed? They say they thought there was enough time for less than a year. But then they say in a letter to the minister of Education - this is the Union of Icelandic rural society - that this is a huge, complex change and time - consuming when they go to it, but they planned less than a year before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u89	Madam President. First of these orders, and whether it's the best move to have 6,000 people or to what you call them and districts there, we can process this in a number of ways, but I think that there's a lot of things we can do by having some sort of smaller unit that can be closer to the nearby community without being too small because it's natural what we've burned about the smallest political coded child protection committees. They may be too close to the subject. The ability to make difficult decisions thus becomes less evident in these matters, the closer they are. That is why the minimum size is normal, but it is important to have consistent units so that the quality of our ministry is the same throughout the country. There is, of course, something else that has not been okay in recent years. Regarding the political treatment of the case, the natural process of this transverse committee, which was doing most of the last term and part of the change comes from that committee. It was a great deal of fine things, but it was a full - speed finish. The committee may have yielded somewhat, and it was a major political debate for the Minister to complete some products here at the Senate hall for elections because the forward group had to push them into the campaign. It may not be the largest harm in the world to allow the political Child Welfare Committees to live a few more months if we can get them out of the way at next New Year's Eve. But it would have been nice to win this well that we could have just finished it properly. [[The president calls.]] But, as I say, there may have been an election struggle for people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Sadly, I did not pay close attention to this discussion, and at least it did not work out very well. There was, of course, a transnational committee, but there seems to be no much discussion in the community. I spent most of my time abroad, but I didn't have much discussion in the community on child protection. It seems that large conferences have not been held or encouraged in the community apart from this transnational committee. It is often good to expand the discussion in order to get as many people as possible and to be criticized. Hv. A senator says that it was driven a little further toward the end, but I'm just curious: Were there certain issues other than the government? This shows all the evidence of what a community is sick in the country - a minimum of 6,000 inhabitants - and that they were unable to cope with this group. I ask him if he also believes that the government, the government, has more to do with these matters, especially in the country, outside the capital area, where there are very few rural communities. Whether he feels that if it raises child - protection issues, there is a great closeness and simply a shortage of expertise that there is a need for the State to bring more child protection in the country than it really does. Was this discussed on the committee and the weakness of a unit to cope with these issues? What issue would have had to be discussed more with the committee, and after this issue was run forward? It would be very interesting to hear if that were so. A senator may take a little time to trace the main opinions of the multidisciplinary committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u91	Madam President. Now I'm gonna have to grieve. A senator who is unable to trace all the opinions of the Senate committee. I didn't sit in it myself, but I watched her work. There may not have been enough discussion in the community about what she was doing. I think there's been some meetings now, and she was naturally very involved in calling out stakeholders for her meeting to review a certain point of opinion, so there were a few things that were quite working within the committee, I think. But then there is a question of whether people may have gotten into prison too much, and whether they have eventually been tempted to go through the council in too short a few hours in the last records. However, the small and lack of expertise throughout the country in smaller rural areas is something that was discussed in various matters during the last term. It was, for example. A good deal of discussion on the potential minimum population in rural society in general is that it is not just the Children's Protective Service, which suffers from the small population and calls for some kind of central government support, like that of the dog. A senator mentions it. I think it's something we have to do much better in a lot of ways. This division between the state and rural society should not be such a push-by-the-way operation. Children's protection is not to be maintained in the country, but the State does not have the same approach as it was before. This is really the problem that this law was designed to deal with. It's just crazy it went down. So, as with so many others, cooperation between the state and rural society is important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u92	A respectable president. I believe this is a very important case, since the group of languages is extremely important. The reason I want to participate in these discussions is because I have been on the Children's Health Committee, in 2008 at a Child Welfare Committee, and in my work as the County Commissioner of the Hafnarfjörður and in the country, I had family or incest, including decision on child - care issues. Also, I've been suing a case for the Children's Protection Committee and the Justice Department. I've been very interested in this group since, after all these jobs, and I believe that justice in child protection is much less than. e.g. on the tax business. The right security for taxes is far more than ever in child protection. Why do I say that? This is because in the tax sector, a professional committee, the head of the Treaty is the country in which experts live and they decide on tax issues. We don't have one of those things. We don't have one of those. It is fundamental that we have to have named the whole country, a management committee with the highest quality professionals who decide on these matters for the whole country. I believe that the current systems for child protection, a politicalized child - welfare committee, and then going to court, with judges, are all too heavy and by no means an adequate system. There would be much more right in that if it were a specialised committee similar to a head tax committee. There are much more formal demands in the courts, taking longer time, etc., having the head of Child Protectors in the country. I can give an example of the activities of child welfare committees. When I was on Child Services, we had a giant suitcase, each committee member, on Thursdays, a large briefcase with large briefcases that we had to read until Tuesday when we had a meeting in the morning. We had to read all these data on Tuesday, and you saw that there was no way that we could study it properly and then make a decision on important matters. That was by no means satisfactory. I'm now an educated lawyer and I've been working on this case, and something like that, and you can imagine what it's like out in the country when things are hard to deal with, and you've got a short time to read, and then you have to start making decisions on very important matters. It's actually so I believe that the Child Protective Management System, for these changes made last year, was completely different. I believe the changes that occurred last year, which are the principles of child protection and child protection, which are now being asked to delay until January 1, have been insufficiently altered. I believe a child protection agency set up with the bill that became the law last year and covers some 6,000 people at least - that is not based on land that I think would have been preferred - is not sufficient. How much better it would have been for a child - welfare agency to have been cut down, and the Children's District Council would have been the lowest level of government. Enlarged areas and then have a higher authority to decide on child protection for the whole country. We live in a small community of 3 60,000 people, and I think 6,000 people are not enough to have child protection services, I think it's too small simply. It would have been much simpler, too, to have one agency at the administrative level, at the County Center, we can call it the Children's Precinct or Child Protective Services, and then a committee that would decide. A case would not directly go to courts but would directly refer to a specialist committee as a ruling and then to courts. This is because the pace of the matter is very important; it is fundamental. The saddest cases I saw in my work on child welfare committee were when you saw old cases, children may have been 11 years old, 12 years old, approaching teenage years, and child protection had done nothing, waited for three years, parents might isolate the children at home, and nothing had been done. The indecision was complete. In my life, such tragic matters as those that you read about. But I'm saying that I have a lot of respect for the social worker's work, and the profession is amazing and amazing to get to know their children's jobs, to show up. I believe this postponement indicates that the bill that the law adopted last year did not receive enough preparation. That's why they're postponing. It was not given enough time for that act of law. It's shown in a paper with the bill, by permission of a president: ▪ When preparing the case, it was based on the fact that less than a year would be time for the induction of the changes and that it would be convenient to connect their implementation with the local government elections in the spring of 2022. Something else has been revealed. In a letter from the European Union of June 25, 2022, this year, to the Ministry of Education and Children, by permission of the President, I read directly from the report: THE letter shows that while the general state is content with the changes and that they were persuaded to strengthen children's protection, the introduction is so extensive that change is so complex and time - consuming. For various reasons, it has been slower than expectations to introduce and prepare the changes. This does actually mean that humans did not realize the complexity and complexity of the changes that were being done there, so, of course, less than a year did not amount to enough time. I believe the changes made last year haven't gone far enough. There should have been an even greater expansion of the districts and a national commission for the whole country that would have ruled in child - welfare as the highest level of government. From there the case goes to the courts. Thus, we could have ensured the right to protect the child's rights as well as the speed and professional treatment. The current system does not guarantee this, and the changes made last year do not guarantee it either. That's because court cases go to court too early. It's much better to have this on a professional decision-making committee, as I said before, as it was on tax issues. I can further argue that the legal security of Iceland's taxes is far more than that of child protection. I believe this bill for law last year, which is now being delayed, is a classic example of the state's trying to figure out how to handle child protection issues against the rural community without requiring unity. The communities are so weak that they cannot really care for these issues in an adequate way. I'm not going to start explaining any further how I think the head of the Child Welfare Commission should be on behalf of the government, not the state level. But I believe that the kingdom, the government, shall not come further to the children's protection in the land. I'm not saying that because I don't like country level, not at all. However, we must take into account that we live in one of the most remote European countries, not one, but the busiest country in Europe, where two thirds of the people live in the capital area and one third of the region. Children, child - care services, would increase their service to the fact that the government would be more involved in these matters. I hereby challenge the Minister of Child Services to use the time - even if I may postpone the project until my next year - and I can revise this directive presented here by Child Protective Services and Child Protector because I am fully convinced that after three, four, five years, these laws will be reviewed, in which the directive is not sufficiently valid. All I can do is take examples from the law that were approved last year on child welfare projects. They are defined as negative. That is what the Bible says in 10 C.E. The role of child protection services, by permission of the President: The Agency shall be a member of a child - welfare agency. Child welfare services are responsible for tasks and decisions under the laws of those not specifically entrusted to others, including those given to them. Child Protection, Justice, or Other Governments Council I don't think the definition of the role of child protection services is clear enough, this is a negative definition, i.e. They do everything else, care for all other privileges not entrusted to others, district councils, courts, and other governments. I just don't think the courts are under here. You're specifying a administrative institution within the administration, and it doesn't have to be defined as not taking care of the role of the courts, so it's just a real error in the text, the term ◯ Court's ◯ is simply not supposed to be. I see that the current child protection committees are actually being severed. Both rural society is developing a child - welfare organization that has a minimum of 6,000 inhabitants, as well as the Children's Protection Council. It's too complicated. It is much better, or it would have caused the child protection committees to expand their territory and from there directly to the head of the Children's Protection Committee. Much simpler, much more efficient instead of creating two new concepts, two new institutions. So I think this is going to be revised in the future. I'd guess in about five years. But I'm challenging the Minister of Child Affairs that this is going to be revised now, using the deadline at least This year, to revise the law that was approved last year and to make it more efficient. I believe this postponement is a sign that the preparation has not been sufficient and the changes have not gone far enough. I'd like to end my case in rejoicing that the Minister has requested a committee to conduct child protection, and for my part I specifically requested to be nominated on that committee, and I hope the council agrees and eagerly wait to participate in the activities of that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u93	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask him about the fact that this case is coming in and is scheduled today. I think everyone is thinking that we should have the rule of the children's affairs as good as any option, no matter what meter it is looked at, but here appears to be some speed, and the evidence is that it needs to be completed before the district elections take place on May 14. No matter what they do, on May 28, new rural governments will not take over until two weeks after election. Counts 'em out. A member of Congress that there is reason for such a matter to be done hastily within the week now or that it is sufficient for the Senate to complete it after the election's election, allowing them to comment and treatment more readily than affords the word being proclaimed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is a very good question, and it points to the core of the case regarding the continuation of these laws that were approved last year. I believe that the child's interests should be considered, what's best for the child, and I don't believe that, as I said earlier, they should set up child protection and child protection guidelines. I think it's too complex a system of government that was approved by law last year and I'd like to keep it simpler. Child Welfare Committees would be united over a larger area, and then the head of child protection in the country would be similar to that of the head tax committee, which ruled in these matters and from there would bring the case to the courts. Therefore, I would feel that the council should accept a postponement, even postponement, until the next year, and so with a insistence that the change in the past would be further reviewed with the aim for further improvement. I believe last year's change hasn't gone far enough. That's what I think is fundamental. I think this institution, the Children's Protection Agency, is too weak, too weak, and also the district council, and the definition of roles is not clear enough, when child protection services should take care of certain tasks and then the district council. No need to have two institutions. Much better to have one agency at the county level, and then a decision could be made to the administrative committee that covered the whole country with professionals and could be decided quickly and safely. From there would court case. So I'd encourage this to be approved. I'd like this to be postponed. I don't want this law that was approved last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u95	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It was interesting to listen to him, and then especially to his counter, since he may have described what was criticized last year in the treatment of this case, it would be a rashly done, and some described it as a sign that the most important of all was that this package could be approved here at a church meeting so that a series of paediatric ministers could be pressed to the chest of elections and said that these cases had ended. At the same time, the very point of sacrifice would have been made; what is best for the child. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to why he feels that such overexcited emphasis was placed on putting this package through in June 2021 when he evidently needed further work. It was obvious to everyone who examined the matter with some depth, and then I'm not talking about the financing of the big project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's a very good question again. I watched this discussion during the last summer, and I believe that it was a political interest behind it. It was the minister's political interests to get the case through, to drive it forward, and to use it in his campaign that it was his case that was successful, a great justice that it is. All cases of child protection and child - protection law are a great deal of justice. I know why. A senator comes from the same district as me and a child - care minister in that district and moved to the capital area and won a successful victory, and I feel that the matter is primarily to be true. That's what his reputation was based on. It was just a matter of time before the election was over. That's my opinion. I wasn't looking so closely at it, but at the time, I felt that the discussion was a bit that way, a bit critical. And I repeat, it wasn't going far enough last year, it wasn't thinking far enough. And there were other interests besides the child's interests. I believe this is a simple group of paintings if you always look at it out of the child's interests, both the governance and the content of the legislature, then it's a simple group of paintings. However, as the local community's interests are being watched, the government used a verse of individual politicians, the matter gets complicated as to how much to speed it up, how much to speed it up, and then it reduces its efficiency. But how important it is that the government is the best knowledge available in the country - simple and quick. That's basic. The problem in Icelandic society, which is so small, especially in rural areas, is obtaining a wealth of professional knowledge. I only know it myself in the country, it was close. So I went into a diner that night, for the weekend, and there I met a person I was dealing with, i.e. was included in a decision. It was very uncomfortable. We're getting very close. I need to have a distance - I don't talk about arming at the Bank of Iceland - but I need a certain distance from these subjects and professional knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u97	Madam President. I come up here to agree with this same wish. In the past and for weeks, members of a budget board have been praying to find answers to many but inexplicably simple questions from the legal committee to the Bank Office. I hope that the Bank Office won't be able to come to a meeting tomorrow because she hasn't finished answering them. I also wanted to come up here because of the words made by Prime Minister on the SEC, because it matters, when it's being discussed with the members of this investigation, that the SEC is certainly under the Bank of Iceland, but when it's checked, it's very clear, it's stated in Article 15. The law says that the bank's surveillance program, the F.O.B., is under the secretary of finance. We've got a surveillance agency that's checking the parts of the bank sale that's responsible for the secretary of finance. The FDA is also a secretary of finance. This is simply an important fact on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u98	A respectable president. I'm an agent of the Stockholm people on the budget board and the data were being delivered today. I think it's been three weeks since we asked for those records. These are not just questions we asked, they also requested data. These are real data that should only exist on their desks and they should send them to us. We're even. talking about contracts with the sales consultants who got 700 million for their job, which is pretty well planned, for calling out to 207 individuals. There is no job behind photocopying these data and sending them to us. On Sunday evening, I thought I should go to the branch office the following morning, but it was postponed because the data were not there and the questions were not answered yet. I understand the data's not here yet. I'm hoping, though, and I wanted it specifically on the e-mail of Monday afternoon, that we should stick to the meeting on Monday without data and then have another meeting later when the data is available. I'm just hoping we'll get at least to meet them because there are a lot of senators and members of the committee who are well involved in the matter. This delay in providing data and answers is a disrespect to the Council and a financial committee will book and do so at our last meeting. I believe the President of the Parliament should represent that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u99	A respectable president. In view of what's being said here, because we've been waiting a long time for data we've been asking for from the Bank Office, I want to know that I've been talking to the Committee to Re-Electment Committee members who are expecting the evidence back then and immediately. He will present them to us members of the committee as soon as they are received. He was going to pick up the tool again to push it, but he knew only that it was falling into a house. I sure hope so. We've had a meeting in the morning, so it's gonna be, it's all set, it's an open meeting. It is certainly important that the data be transmitted as soon as possible so that we can study the answers below so that we can deepen our questions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u100	Madam President. When council members and members of Parliament try to organize themselves, it is possible that this will be an acceptable time line available as possible. It's been totally surprised to see that we're still in that position now, at five o'clock on Tuesday, to be without these data or those responses that we've calculated today for days. If Banky's position, or related government, is that there was no basis for this to be answered, then that's just an answer, and it needs to be made. But as long as there's no answer to that, we must assume that these writings are about to fall in. Hopefully, this will follow up now as to what comes out of each individual as well. The chairman of the budget board describes it. But if it was meant to fail, it would have been great if that were to happen, if that was what comes to pass in the end of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u101	Madam President. I need to come back to what we're always correcting over and over here in the opposition. When it comes to government audits, Economic Affairs, and the community's institutions, and they may not be suitable for certain matters, it is not a total lack of confidence in their institutions. Over and over here, the management hearing shows that the government's side did not trust the Government Accounting, that the government did not trust the rest or do not trust these. This is a simple question of the fact that those who are the best at heart and who have the richest and best way of handling the issues that need to be considered. This does not include distrust of something else. That it is e.g. Doubts about trust in the secretary of finance now do not mean that there is a general lack of confidence in all the government of the Icelandic Republic from the beginning, just to be applied to an illustration that people can understand. [[The president calls.]] Surely we can talk without procrastining each other about such factors. They all trust the National Accounting. But this is a question of whether an institution or another committee is more suitable to investigate a particular subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u102	Madam President. The pan-European region, including its member countries, has its members in charge of the Agency's work. implemented in the General Assembly Act. It contains, for example, finding arrangements in the 51st strection That the Council can demand data and information on events, and that it can provide data and govern them, if requested by the Council, seven days to provide and provide for the council. In this case the government was given a lot more time in view of the fact that time off was ahead and that there were other things, three weeks. There must be a very large amount of time and absolutely unsurpassed that it cannot be granted. Then I'd like to agree with what's been said here about state accountants and other offices. There is no lack of confidence in this office by referring to the General Research Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u103	President. As a result, I'm a little worried about this report that's being negotiated at the Bank Office to answer a financial committee, that there's much more than just answers to questions we asked about. So it's stalling that we get the answers. There's something we're writing about and more than we asked for. If that's why the Senate's work is being delayed, that's a serious matter. It really is. These are the information we would like to receive, of course, as early as within the seven days laid down in the Congress. I want to go back to the highest. A president on the very matter of this matter of Congress, to be able to obtain information from the government. I'd like to interpret it so that the committee's committee committees can exactly call them committees and you can't say, "No, we're not going to show up." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like to have a clear president's opinion on the source of the Senate's authority to bring the administration into the carpet with committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u104	A respectable president. I'd like to protest again and again how the European Commission will proceed with State Review. It is simply that it is not expected in the state accountant's law that the government would request an assessment of a particular subject or that the government might take some initiative in such observations. There's just a very good reason it's not in the government Accounting Act. You see, a state accountant is a confidence officer of the Generals, and he is represented by Generalis to supervise the government's financing. It is very difficult to agree that the government itself, the surveillance party, is involved in the way it is being conducted by Congress, whether it is done by the administration and monitoring committee, by the State Reconclusion, or by the Directorate of the II Parliament. This is the General's project, not the Executive Director's.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u105	A respectable president. Of course, in terms of the evidence and the answers to the questions, the government banking agency was to send the data to us right away. It's not complicated, it's a lot of work. Then they'll just come back with the answers later. But it doesn't seem like that. Of course, the president of the Generals is supposed to take the case in his own hands and challenge the bank administration to return at least one. The evidence immediately, which hopefully will come. I'd like to also discuss the investigation of state accountants and UNECE or the Federal Bank. That's right. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir The village of Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríður Sigrínídóttir Gunnnugadótttir to the Marine Department is under the secretary of finance. It is highly unnatural for them to be investigating the office of a financial minister or a ceremony to which he is responsible. It is also that a state accountant is appointed a state accountant and is one of the candidates for the state accountant's status, which the General shall then have to agree with. So the failure of both the SEC and its State accountant can be questioned. [[The president calls.]] I'm not questioning their ability to study this simple matter. But it can also be noted that those who have criticized this, which is really nice, are Icelandic academics in foreign universities, both at the University of Copenhagen, Professor Guðrún Johnsen, and líka Sigidur, the Sigríður of Benedict, a professor of the United States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic university community does not hear a word about this case, and they may be able to read the AESCO report, chapter on them themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u106	The president once again reminds us that this is a time for public speaking. We're talking about the President's conference board, it's one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u107	President. It's been interesting these past few days to see how government and government talks have developed and how the manual for Government Review is over, I don't know what you can call this, it's a piece of shit. Of course, we have full confidence in the Agency of the General Assembly, which is the National Review. Of course, we have confidence that a government inspection can fulfill its role in the law. What we're talking about for the independent Public Research Committee surrounding the sale of the state of Iceland is a committee that can study things that the National Accounting Committee cannot legally define its role. Nothing about trust. Executing the definition of the Agency's role. The fact that these speakers, made up of Eagleville and faxed down to the Eastfield, get to run through every mouth of government officials after another - so, Madam President, it's the dishonestest politics I've seen for a long time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u108	President. I think there's a reason to mention to the NTSB that when it comes to the sale of the bank, when we see the list of the buyers, and we've found the kind of mess that this sale was, the government's gonna be together on one request. This is a very simple request and it immediately appeared, and it was our response to this sale that we would kindly ask to set up a committee of inquiry. It couldn't be done. Why not? Well, because the Secretary of finance had just asked the Government Reconnaissance to investigate this for himself. At that time, the government could not be met. Instead, it's all set up here at a council meeting. Why? I don't understand why. It would have been so much simpler to agree only to this, of course, that the assembly agreed that the study of this bank sale was on the basis of the Council of All but not on the terms of a financial minister. [[The president calls.]] Why is that not possible? I just don't understand, Mr. President. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u109	Madam President. I thought first interesting, then smiling, and then very dramatic to listen to the members of the council here last night talk forever about our not trusting the FDA, and we don't trust a Government Accounting. The fact is, we do not trust the government. We do not trust the government for selling state property. True, the government does not trust itself for further sales. It is evident by the government's Easter announcement. I think it matters, this language to always say him, not the other one, and somehow try to mislead, just as the government is doing with the Bank County. Of course, it was crucified over the Passover for what the Ministers are responsible for. But I also wondered what effect it has on me, and I think the government needs to discuss it, on her financial plan now that the government has become lens with further sales on things in Iceland banks. The amount, the amount of money of the size, is substantial enough to threaten financial planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u110	Madam President. Unfortunately, we are once again seeing that the project is sending data all too late for the General Assembly. But it's not just data we get late. We're also having a meeting party late. I was, for example. Just before we get a meeting for a hearing that's in the morning. Yes, and the program is late. It wasn't until noon on Monday that we knew what we were going to talk about at the council that day. It's just an evil way of doing things. How should we, as members of the Parliament, be able to fulfill our role in making good laws if we do not have time to examine the data? We have a meeting meeting planned until midnight, and we have a meeting in the morning, and the data are not yet set for what we should be looking at in the morning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance talked about how things were in the Land Hospital, and he wanted more efficiency, and I think it's the highest. The president should try to improve efficiency here by improving these items. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest - so that we can save this blessed bell behind me - that we borrow a speech session in the conference room for two minutes. [[The point is, I'm sure there's no progress in... efficiency.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u111	There has been no such thing yet, so I insist that the session is one minute under this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u112	Madam President. There has been some discussion that the requested operation for the Government Review on the assessment that the Agency is currently doing on stock sales in Iceland banks would not be wise. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. President's accepting the assignment to consider the precedents, how often it happened that a minister would set matters straight for the Government Accounting procedure in the current way. Is this an example, or has this been done many times in the early stages? It would simplify the discussion, and for many reasons I think it would be interesting to see what would come from the view that we know it, senators, what the process is about presenting to the State Accounting. There are very clear rules about that. I've been through that process twice myself. [[The president calls.]] So it would be interesting if it were the highest. The president would agree that this information would be compiled for us members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u113	Madam President. There's been some reports that government officials are saying here, according to a memo from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, are all over the place in their criticism of the government's bank sale. I think it may be because members of the board of directors are intent on misleading the discussion, lying about our words, lying about our will. It seems that when people begin to lie, they tend to get confused about their lies and facts. We're not talking about whether to sell the bank. We are not dealing with the general incapacity of the State Accounting office. We're talking about the highest responsibility. The secretary of finance, when he decides to depart from the route presented here at the General Assembly for two members of the Parliament. He decided that this would be the case. We're talking about his responsibility under the laws on the sale of the government's ownership of financial assets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're going to the General Research Committee. Other things are not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u114	President. Because of the very words of some members of the council that the government resistance did not trust a State Accounting, it was yesterday's discussion. paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson repeatedly accused me, despite the fact that I corrected him, of not trusting a public accountant. He simply lied about me, there's nothing more complicated than that. Everyone who wants to see how he handled such false stories, how I corrected them, and how he repeated that nonsense. So I'm calling on the members of the board to come up here and explain to all of us what's right here once and for us all. Is the government really in charge saying that a State Accounting cannot be trusted? [[The president calls.]] If not, I'd like to direct it to the president to reprove the members of that body of Congress for such a speech when it comes up again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u115	Madam President. I would very much like to return to a particular context that matters when we are talking. The government's inspection examined the personal development of the Saver Bank in 2003 and 2006, and nothing came out of it. Then, the Allied Research Committee, which so mars the dirt and dirt as we know from this privatization, establishes the time line for what happened in the private industry. A national accountant will then be asked if he is standing by the health card he gave him. He explained that on the basis of a broad research committee, he was able to show that the evidence that a government reexamination followed was presented as an illusion. This could not be done by a state accountant himself. This could be done by the NTSB. Government reviews work by moving the government's business and activities in general to a better end, but it is less regarded as political responsibility. [[The president calls.]] We can just think of this bank sale as being in three layers; it's the political responsibility, that's the Bank Management Board, and that's the sales advisors. [[The president calls.]] The sales consultants are being examined, and the Bank County is being examined, but the political responsibility is somehow left between parts of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u116	Madam President. I can't put up with this conversation that's been going on for days, and it's all because it's the highest. Financial and economic secretary has decided to use the widely known butter potpourri method when offering an invitation to the establishment of a research committee. And here we are still expected to erase the butter because the government groups, the left green advance party, have hit a armored city at the highest level. A minister so that a committee of inquiry cannot be formed. I don't have to go over the authority. You all know how it is. Here each of you doctors knows what the difference is between state reexamination and the II Parliament's research committees. That's what it's all about. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister decided to slow down the matter, buy some time so in the hope of the Passover that all things would be forgotten after Kristur had risen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u117	A respectable president. I find this discussion rather sad, I must say, and people here lie right. I just want to point out that before, for example. Claims it. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson reports that the Bank Office of the State followed the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance to the Ministry of Presidency. That wasn't true. That wasn't true. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir says this is a lie. I want to ask the U.S. Congress to tell the truth, all of them I always tell the truth. [[You too.]] You can tell me. I'd also like to come into this room only because it's been called for this sale to be examined and it's going to be in her throat. We all agree on that. [[The president calls.]] If we want a decision to be quick and reliable, and it's said that there's trust here, then it's a government accountant's responsibility to go to that job and then, if anything wrong, we're all ready to order a research committee to take a closer look at it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, should we just trust it?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u118	Mr. President. I feel that it is proper and obliged to point out that it is common for Ministers or Ministry to request an assessment by a government accountant on certain matters. In fact, there is already one case that has its origin in a request from a member of the Senate Committee, and it is already being done by a state accountant on the request of the Ministry. I think it's the highest. Food Minister on Fishing. Let's be clear, so we're in the dark. It is not unusual for a minister or ministry to ask for reviews on certain factors or even entire institutions. It is a subsequent assessment in accordance with a government accountant's decision and always on his terms. [[The president calls.]] To suggest that a government accountant earns an assessment on the grounds of a minister is wrong and that he is throwing dust into the public's eyes by such a lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u119	A respectable president. The government's hearing gives all evidence of calming the government's biology. It is a simple requirement from the government that the whole matter be explained. What are men and women afraid of here? Are the directors afraid to roll with all the stones; are the ways we know of success in expedienting both the face of construction and the political responsibility? The political reality today is that Prime Minister Jakobsdóttir and the procurator of the Independence Party are now in the last weeks. All the senators are on the boat trying to save the government, to, um, hum a little bit of the case, just to get cooled off on it, just to work time. [[The president calls.]] This is the political reality of today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u120	Madam President. I don't know if it's an attempt to chew or spell into a member of the board why we want a council member. Over the years, it has been discussed that a government review has not been the same as the experience of a bank crash, and she gave two doctors proofs that later proved wrong, for they themselves told the Government Accounting that they did not have the same authority as the NTSB had. So, what are we going to do this summer when there comes a state reexamination report that says everything is fine? So the executives are going to say, "No, I don't believe it, we're going to the NTSB? It's just the wrong people who have been asked to investigate this very matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u121	President. I find such an interesting speech for members of the Independence Party. Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir said that there was a lot of desire to investigate this matter - now I am speaking - and if there was to be a need for a research committee to handle it, it would certainly be that way. I'd like to what. A senator saw the position she is putting us in the stand of government. They're asking us to trust it just so that the more part that has a lot of interest is to expose his minister, the government, will make that decision when a government accountant's decision comes to his house: Yes, we heard, we believe that it is necessary to take a research commission. [[The president calls.]] That's what's been asking us to do. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a fair requirement to ask that we just trust you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u122	Madam President. I want to come up here and give the highest. Prime Minister and government, good advice. There's a lot of people out here who are struggling to sell this stuff, and people are sad, but they're not talking about it. People have lost trust, and the government has lost its trust, and many have said to me, "Are you just sitting here and accepting this? " Do it for yourselves, set up the General Research Committee, so you can get back trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u123	A respectable president. What are we afraid of? asks why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is the daughter of our directors. We're not scared. We're not. We've been talking since the first day about the fact that we want this whole process on board. It also speaks of trust, and who depend most on its trust? Isn't that the government? I'd like to have the law assume that the President of the Generals has a commission for the head of the NTSB. He will also agree on it and limit its commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I would like to ask the head of the board whether they have confidence in the president of the council to select and appoint the chairman of the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u124	President. I wondered, " Why isn't there a World Congress Research Committee? ' Why not ask more members to consider the matter? I don't fully understand the evidence that there are other people who look at this from different angles. Then we and the public can make informed decisions about what went wrong and what did not. It's like going to a doctor or some specialist, you might want to get a different opinion. Someone may see something else that the other might not see or consider other things. Why is this a barrier to the appointing of the Allied Research Committee? I wondered if it couldn't only improve the government, if it all went well and everything as it was supposed to be. That would increase confidence in the government. Isn't that what the government wants?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u125	A respectable president. Of course, an investigation committee is to be set up immediately. If government officials intend to live up to the claim to roll over all the rocks and put on all the blanks and cracks to find out what's wrong in this case, they should celebrate the NTSB. Now it is a matter of state reexamination. He's appointed by the government, he's not of the Generals, and he's applying to become a state accountant. How in the world do you think a man who is applying to become a state accountant to the government and Generalis will work differently than trying to solve the situation and really do nothing about it? I'd say it was being put in an impossible position. The government is putting this man in an impossible position. That's why we should come to the NTSB right now. Let's start with that. They should not irritate one or another. It should just be a self-centered thing. [[The president calls.]] Then we're doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u126	Madam President. When government officials climb up to want to roll all the rocks, I think of our old companion from Greece, Sýsifos, who was always rolling on rocks, but it was always the same stone. He was always rolling the same cursed stone up the same cursed hill. I feel as if the government would like to do this, would like to roll them one stone to hang all the blame on the State Bankisy, to find every possible way that Bjarni Benediktsson does not have political responsibility but can put all the blame on the officials who followed his instructions. Why do we want a research committee? Yes, it is. Because it is more comfortable with the work, because it is the way it is defined by the law than it is by the Government Accounting. We want it because it can measure much better than the National Accounting whether the responsibility is on the table of Bjarni Benediktsson son of Benedict, whether the responsibility is on the board of Ministers on the economy, whether the responsibility is on the board of the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It does not have the same authority, not because people mistrust it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u127	A respectable president. All the responses made by diplomats and Ministers are required to keep the government alive. They do not depend on getting the truth and extending it. This is a huge fuckup, and for our liberal rights here at the council, who support selling the part of the state of the financial system, these are tremendous disappointments. But we must face the fact that then we must take advantage of all opportunities to rebuild trust. The government has already said that she did not trust to start the sale. These are huge interests. These are the hundred billion of us belong to Iceland banks that we can't use to pay off debts, so that we don't risk future debt on our generations, our children, to enter the infrastructure. The independent group has fixed this up, encouraged it over this mess, and now tries to say no to trying to start building trust. That's the first step in getting us back to the sales on the banks. [[The president calls.]] This is the first step, and it is the necessary step. You have to face it. [[The president calls.]] Let's get on it right away, save some time and build trust, rebuild trust that we can take this important road, pay off the debt of state, and go into the infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u128	Madam President. According to a recent survey, general dissatisfaction with the results of this bank sale and the process all goes into effect. Almost everyone in Iceland is unhappy with this position. Our confidence in the government and the government's minister, it's not reassuring, Madam President, all this mess. It's clear to the highest. The secretary of finance and economics screwed it all up out of their hands. We can see them and they can see the people in the country. It's not reassuring, Madam President, that he stepped so forward and said: "Yes, that was not good enough. But I've found someone who'd be fine right now and look at what I was doing. That's not reassuring. - What's going on? Councilmen, senators, are not comforting either. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I advise my friends in the board just to look into the matter and see if they are wrong in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u129	A respectable president. One thing that has surprised me in my discussions here on the possible orders of the NTSB is the comments made by the management board. We heard this from the senators of the Future Party yesterday, and we hear this from the head of the Economic and Business Committee today as it is in some way opposed, or tried to make research committees, and that is a bit hard to believe by pointing to the role of the U.S. President when it comes to order of the research committee. It's that way in 2. Article 6 of the General Commission that it recommends that the president of the Generals choose the chairman and target of the Commission, both in agreement with the Committee to President and to the Commission and to appoint members of the General Assembly with the Commission, i.e. Board of Directors and Control Committee. I just want to say here that I have complete confidence in the Birgir of the Ármannsson, and if this is any problem in the management team, if the order of the NTSB is to be made to end this, it has to be made clear. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The president calls.]] I trust Birgir the Aargian Ármannsson of a year just to do that job perfectly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u130	A respectable president. It is often interesting to examine the root of the words. I gave you an unexpected Easter gift, with the permission of the president and with the manufacturer's permission, called Ransacked, in English. It's about plundering, but as far as 'cause it's worth it, it's a robbery. It is a tender word, and these words cause anxiety. No one wants to be examined and acted in a criminal way, for human imperfection may come to the fore. Ransacked deals with human mistakes and human and aftertaste that led to the theft of the non-remembered Icelandic public, unless less. So the test subject, which is here for days, has been in our ears all, and continues, should not be limited to an examination of human mistakes in the bank or anywhere that mistake begins. It should continue because we made a research report on the decline, not about the afterlife and the tragedy that is beyond the reach of the public and the family. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u131	A respectable president. People I'm talking about in society are pissed off. It's just that it's really crazy about this shit that this bank salesman has been doing. Last week, I had two traditional research committees on the investments of pension funds. I thought to myself, " Are we really in a place where we need to get into these things again? ' What's wrong with us? Is there nothing we can learn from history? I think the only way is to stop this thing we're doing, to try to get a state accountant and put it against a wall, that he should go to some whitewash, or Bank management, that it's her fault. It's not like that. It's very simple: The government completely screwed up, on its own. Perhaps it would be the best solution for the government to go away. Then some others would be able to take it, if the government did not trust a research committee to take care of these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u132	Madam President. It's a little off, but we're trying to keep the rhythm that was in the discussion for a special discussion. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, of prime minister, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, earlier on the bank sale. The bill on this topic is not materialistic. The goal is to postpone the acceptance of the regulations set out there. - I don't make any special comments, but it might be a bad time, so if a president ever wants to get me out of a punk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u133	... never getting rid of you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u134	No, I know it's the highest. Minister never wants to get rid of me, thank you. There are some things that I feel it is necessary to reflect on now when this matter is opened, so to speak, because of the procrastination being made by a strategist who is in position to perform the factors under these circumstances. So I noticed, and maybe to the council now that the hearing from the hearing was given and approved here last year at our previous council has not become available on the Internet. I'm saying this because I was going to recall a certain exchange, but I didn't get a coat out of it in view of the fact that there were only sound files available from the discussion, the text files weren't in yet. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. In part, the text of the discussions from the previous year is made available to us members of the Parliament. Especially is it important for the members of the committee who are being discussed, since the situation must arise, of course, that it will be called out for reviews and other things, and they could discuss a little more than the narrow part presented in this research project. The case was delivered last year, and I'm here with the bill's report for changes in child protection from the past council. It says in Mt chapter 6, for an assessment of the impact, after the case has been traced: The production of databases and digital solutions in child protection is also discussed on the bill, but the project is financed in budget 2021. Of course, it would be interesting if information about where this work is being carried out. There was a rumor that this matter was further in the future than it might have been put on the scene in the 6th section of the report. V.E.G. A minister, because he is following the discussion, may follow up on this if he is having a final talk after the discussion. How does the work that has to do with these digital solutions support these integrations as discussed here? I remember a review that described it as some kind of stipulation and likely of any of the farm society that enjoyed payment from a set fund, that it would be obliged to put the data through this particular app to have a chance to get paid out of the system that was being discussed. Then, the same paragraph in the previous article, with the permission of the president, says: ▪ More than that, integrating services for successful children is expected, but the bill is now in the case of the General Assembly...] will also be introduced into child protection. The changes are fully financed by both government funds and rural communities. That's the point I was going to come in on. There was a considerable discussion on this point last year, and that was what I wanted to recall on the Generals web, but it did not get very effective here earlier today. For my part, I was very concerned that this wasn't the case, I now thought it was only on the existing budget, on the budget as they were, and, in fact, on the report of one of the cases in that package that was so compatible, that the financing wasn't just as smart as they wanted to be. There was a minister who considered him to be fully aware.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u135	Still is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u136	But it wasn't convincing enough then. V.E.G. Minister here says it's still the case, and I just respect it and value it. But there is again reason to look at the ways in which those people working within this framework have been communicating on these matters. It was only with the help of Google that the elements of the rural society in this whole project came up immediately - a project that I think all members of Congress agree that is one of the most important people we can handle, the issues of children, so no one is talking about having something to reduce the improvement, the improved environment that we can create children of this community. But it doesn't matter where you look. For example, I refer to an article published in Visi 28 March last with the headline, with the permission of a president: 'Is it reasonable for senators and Ministers to strike themselves at the expense of their comrades? ' It goes to this particular collection of four bills that were approved here in whole state of last year, which said the legislation on integrating services in the interests of children, the Children's and Family Laws, the Quality and Health Organization Act, and the Change of the State's Analysis and Advisor Act. It's the head of the Council of Farms at the County of Aarhus, Tómas Ellert Tómasson, a representative of the Central Party in that town who writes an excellent article that accurately highlights the high cost in rural areas, in excess of what was in view. Not to be overlooked is the fact that, with the permission of a president, the report says: "The changes are fully financed by both state funds and rural society. There seems to be a lot to go around with the rurals. Another report, with the permission of presidents: ▪ Unscrupulously serving children with a serious mental disorder. Regína Ásvaldsdóttir, director of the Center for Health of Reykjavík City, describes it in article 26, 2021, shortly after this body of law was adopted, that funding for the affairs of children with severe mental and developmental problems are under strict consideration. As we examine the implications of these issues, it is not evident that this package of laws approved in June of last year is, at least not yet, and with the published declarations of full funding to be returned to these groups in particular. And although I don't have that text with me up here, I remind myself that there is a special objective in the Government Treaty of the current government to make a waiting list. There is no particular goal to be cut down or destroyed, but to make them central. It would be only a matter of walking into one of the high schools of the city in the morning and then some prospective student would have solved it by noon to make this waiting list of the town central. But the emphasis on shortening them and getting over the problem and working in a precocious manner seems much smaller, unfortunately. Of course, that must be the goal of the laws that were approved last year, this package. But it seems there's nothing wrong with the Minister or the Supreme Minister. There's been a bit of a race in the government. Of course you knew. A minister did not want him to keep the Minister's office between terms so that a political understanding can be given. It seems, though, that men had a big fight in the cheek, and it was absolutely necessary to end these cases in the last spring so that the elections could be flaunted in the fall. Sadly, though, the export, the funding, the induction seems to have been a factor in the emphasis on importance. I think this is an act that would be desirable. The welfare committee, which I expect will address the matter for discussion, is taking a quick turn. I'll give it to the committee to call for reviews about this change, and it would be wise to put a little meat on our bones, as it would also give us members of Congress a better foundation to keep working. It was noted in the discussion of this matter before her recession that members of the council who have quite insight into these matters and who have requested a session on the Child - Language Committee feel that the need is much revised and in fact, in fact, immediately. Hv. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson came in that way, if I knew what it was. A senator rightly felt that he was wise to postpone all this induction until a certain adjustment was made. If a song package like this, this key four layers updated here last spring, immediately gives the status of a man with great knowledge or at least A good understanding of the environment is calling for a full reexamination, which appears to have gone a little out of hand. I got it. I got it. A welfare committee to look into the matter, taking the time needed to examine it. It is claimed that it has to be completed preferably within this week for some improvement. But the fact is that this time the district election will be May 14, and the country's new administrations will take May 28th, so that there is more than a month we have, and there is no need for the welfare committee to call out for reviews, get them to themselves, the hosts can write them on the break that is ahead of us because of the local elections, and then this will be done quickly and well as soon as Congress appears to meet at the end of the district election. This is what I wanted to say about the case at this point, but I'd like to make it seem like you're doing it more than you're doing when things were run through and finished last spring. We're supposed to take advantage of this opportunity when we open the case for at least collecting data to facilitate either the highest. A minister or a senator's committee, which he seems to intend to form back the work needed to enable all of us to make success for children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u137	President. Hv. A senator was merely discussing the budgets of success, and it's a bit complicated to scratch through the source of those documents. The budget for this year is just under 800 million in early intervention. It's just not everything. It was spoken of as 1,200 million, reminds me of the total cost a few years ago. I don't know exactly what the current amount is. Whether this is a budget that was already part of a case in any way or whether it's a means of subsidence, it's just pretty vague in the financial bill. Then, on the one hand, you watch a child's affairs program, there's a lot of things to be done, for the year 2018,2022, is running out of this year. But this strategy has not been completed. It's just unclear when the budget is read. You would have thought, as it is a government policy to introduce these laws of success, that it was clearly presented in a clear way where money gains come from, compared with a budget per law. But it's just not so obvious to find. When I'm trying to dig through both financial and financial schemes, I'm in trouble at the expense of all aspects of success. Hv. A senator here points to a problem for the council that is supposed to agree with the legal authority to enforce this law that we agreed on. There is a general problem, but especially in these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The scene that I was going to review here in the text from last year's talks that I didn't find, was the scene that turns on that in the bill itself, one of these four, I just didn't remember each of them, this is a bit of data, was exactly said not to be expected to be funded related to the bill in the established financial program. That's what you thought to me to be an incredible message. The case had been presented until autumn, and no doubt was submitted before the proposed financial program of this year, which was no doubt some technical explanation. But this may have seemed to me a little framed in just how much steam bomb was in the financing section. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, who was the head of the welfare committee in the hearing package all, if I recall correctly, made strong comments on my approach at the time, but now failed to convince me that there was anywhere to find a full payment on the work that was being approved. V.E.G. The minister of the child's affairs then, and now he gave the answer, if I recall correctly, that it would be so profitable to this early intervention that it would pay for the project. Surely it is true that there is a great deal of profit in early intervention among children who are in a bad place in life or in difficult situations. But that is not the way the funding of public projects and laws is analysed. We know that. [[The president calls.]] I have tried to speak repeatedly when trying to make it easier for pensioners to work, to see both sides of the matter, but it does not seem justified on the basis of public funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u139	President. Yes, it is of interest that under the laws on public financial matters, they will appreciate the benefits of government policy, especially government policy. If the highest. According to a minister, the benefits of making these pay up need to be shown in print so that we can take this into account in a financial programme for the next year. When does this start paying off? It is an investment to begin with, at an expense of organizational changes and the like. There is a treatment home in Garða, where the first pair of shovels had hardly been accepted, and it was in the program that was running out. They were supposed to have built that home. Nothing like that. They put a coin in there. What's become of that money? Is this new funding for success? I have no idea it's so omnipotent. When a minister says that this will only pay for the gain automatically, it needs to be shown that in these years a minister assumes that early recovery will have reduced resources during the third stage of therapy or something similar about half, which saves this much money, and as a result, the original investment has been met. No such thing is done, not at any agency, although public financial laws are very clear that it should. But it's somehow that way, no matter what you've been saying here for the past five years and even though we have a financial minister who was in the process of creating these laws on public finance, he can't even apply them himself. This is a key element in the fact that the government, which says the government, gives professional analyses to the council in order to agree on legal authority. She won't. But a minister can only say that. What should be our goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u140	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I must now acknowledge my shame in terms of the fact that I clearly have to read more clearly in the government law because if I recall correctly, I made a special inquiry to the minister of finance not long ago. There might have been another form of it, but I remember that it was an unprepared inquiry. In effect, I asked why they didn't watch the income part because pensioners were made easier to continue their employees, those whom they wanted, and those whom they were looking for. It was quite clear that in this case, they had not been looked forward to evaluating the growth in income, but rather only the expense of the public system, since older citizens continued to use the pension rights they would have either, they did not want to make use of the time they had spent on the market or in any sort of job that was paid. This kind of calls for us trying to reach the overall picture in this system of prosperity, since I think it's still as loose in the ropes as it was, and everything that has to do with the points of financial control is on the same book. That's where I don't remember, but the highest. If so, a minister will correct me, to have seen an interview with a local manager or an article claiming that a plan for a financial gain has proved practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u141	A respectable president. I often think why. A senator gives good talks that do not require correction, but if I should have time to correct all the bullshit presented in a sermon, it would be appropriate for me to give corrective speech. A senator would need me more than two minutes. There have been a lot of good talks given here today, including of Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir. Pirata's senator, who discussed these matters with knowledge and sincerity. Right away. A senator is witnessing even I mean, in the middle-class government that says that success wasn't a financial act, it's just bullshit. [[Up front.]] The senator also quotes the stage manager of the welfare field, Regína Ásvaldsdóttir, which is not dealing with success laws in the article she wrote but with measures that need to build up for children with a wide range of problems. It's not about the law of Success, and it's not about this bill here. The thought of success is to reduce the need to control the third degree by increasing communication between the systems. The person standing here has always acknowledged that there is a need for additional funds. We decided, it was a conscious decision, first to create the code of success, to start with this phase of child protection, to create the law of success, and to increase the communication between the systems. This decision was made in cooperation between all schemes with the European Union, with stakeholders in the grassland root, and with representatives of all political groups, and this was followed through the council, the Success Act, and these child protection laws. On that committee, representatives of all political parties followed it all the way, except for one-by-one at the General Assembly, as it was the Central Party. When a member of Congress on the Central Party could not continue to serve as a member of the Councilship committee, the Middle House did not see the reason for appointing another representative on this committee. The successful law must not involve it when we are here, at the request of the local community, to postpone the execution of child protection so that it can be introduced into increased cooperation and cooperation, as this case was. [[The president calls.]] And because of what? A senator was talking about a Senate Committee, so I just think the Central Party should appoint a representative of the Council Committee, since the panel would then be more meaningful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u142	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. But, of course, I'm going to have to criticize this and pick up the glove for national government officials if they're a national trajectory minister, that things that come from the representatives of a particular party are bullshit because the members of the local government are members of a different group of ministers. These are some prejudices that I do not remember having been seen here from the Lady Alllis, the highest. A minister to shame. Of course, it is, however, that they are simply bordering on the level of insolence. Ministers are coming up here in a pit and claim that the package of success has been fully financed as long as possible. A minister himself said that it did not have to be explained in a traditional way; there was so much profit in this early intervention. I don't make any comments that it's big, but it's just not the way it's calculated. That's the best. Ministers come up now, some way out of the crumbling jaws of country leaders and the company I represent, seems rather unacceptable to me than to the highest degree. Minister must have that to himself. But at the height. A minister who seems to be one of Iceland's politicians thinks the perfectly successful package is just interesting. There's no new input, unfortunately. I would have found it harder to see the minister coming here and saying: " I wanted to get this far, but I just didn't get any further than I did. Beating your head against a stone and claiming that things are very different from what they are -- that's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u143	A respectable president. If that's been misunderstood, I've been saying bad things about the local government, then I'll take it back. But I said, "What?" A senator would've been bullshit. And a controversial article based on the exact same shit as that. There was a senator who had this, about the lack of financial support - all I can say is that it's nonsense. Right away. A senator claims I'm saying that I'm making a point, so I pray. A senator looking in the mirror. The funding of these successful legislation was carried out in a way that allowed us to be assisted by an economist who worked with the Ministry and by a crosspolitic panel, which the Central Party did not have to sit in at that time, because he did not want to remain in it and its adults, worked a comprehensive report on this in cooperation with all rural communities, and all the staff for what they thought would have to finance this, both for rurals and for the State. Then it was calculated as to which interest we would be calculated by the return of this bill and when it would return both to state and to rural society. I can send you what? A senator who's interested in this analysis. To be sure, we employed a economicist who has a lot of knowledge about social and rural matters, Haraldur Líndalur Haraldsson, who has been a member of the community and who has been a member of the community for a long time, to cross this and to reconnect with all our communities. This led to the conclusion that there was a need to be between 1.51⁄2 billion into the success law, all of which paid off. They both came into Social Services then and now to the Ministry of Education and Childhood and into the League's Fund, which has assigned him to the local community. But this is the first leg. That's why the senator stirs the whole thing here. The next stage is the resort. Do they need funding? Yes, and I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken here on that matter. But I'm waiting. A senator not to stir things up and tell others not to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u144	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. First, a little elimination of this emphasis as the highest. A minister suggests that groups of members other than the management party nominate a representative of his own committee on these matters, which is intended for man to appear, according to the word of a cabinet minister here in Pontu, primarily to muleize the representatives selected on such committees. Emphasis as the highest. A minister suggests that I am here as a member of the Central Party for the discussion because the Central Party was at the end of this work not represented by a member of the Committee suggests that this is the same approach as being to be held by the government in connection with a so-called central mountain bill, where all classes were directed to appoint a member of the council who was to be referred to as the one who should have understood all of this and would have seen all of this under test. This is a procedure that I think must call for a special consideration that if, as I say, the objective is to make it more difficult for members of Congress to make it difficult in late stages based on their party being on some committee that the Ministers have custody over. It will be worse than at home in this regard. Of course, we senators are expected to monitor the European Commission. It is our to look and criticize how it has been achieved with the legislation here was run through last year to the highest level. In the fall of a campaign, a minister might strike his chest. I think that we all agree that the first thing we want is the prosperity of children and the success of children. There are many ways of doing this, but the criticism of what has been maintained in this case is particularly concerning the financing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u145	A respectable president. I'm not here to take some serious material discussion about the subject itself, the points that are involved in child protection, or anything like that. I think most of us are here at the Senate Hall, thinking that it should be supported. The thought behind all this is very good. However, I would like to explain some aspects of the background that I think are of a little importance to me, and in this context, I would like to quote the report on the issue we are discussing. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ For various reasons, hopes have gone slower than expectations to introduce and prepare the changes. There are several factors, including elections to the Generals, changing the order of recruitment and implementation of lawsuits within the Iceland Board of Directories as well as the implementation of new legislation on integrating services for the benefit of successful children, No. 86/2021. Also listed are the CVID-19 pandemics and other aspects. The letter also discusses the importance of child - welfare management as well as the need for more time to prepare than originally planned. Of course, all of this is good and good. In fact, it's a little surprised that there's a lot of elections there for the Generals because there's quite an predictable event, and it can well be explained and worked around, it has to be said exactly as it is. That may not be the case to create a pandemic. In fact, I'm going to allow myself to pass my opinion here that a pandemic is sometimes used to explain all kinds of delays, but I'm not going to say that it was the case that it was the case. But we know this and have often seen that this blessed pandemic has been used to explain things that are not related to it. But, as I say, I'm not necessarily going to be saying it applies here. What I would like to do, however, is that this is a time of great debate when this government was conceived of as a board of directors and how to conduct them. Of course, it was a lot to say how long this government was to be formed and how much it became. Many scratched their mind over the way it was done. Inside it played the debate that the obvious way in which it was spoken was the response to the changed percentages of power within the government, which are probably taken into account. We know that the advance team won elections, and VG lost its influence in these elections, and they had to draw back the ratios of power, and that's how I understand and what it means. But we pointed out, and that is exactly what is being revealed in this case if it is to be determined, and supported the evidence and the reviews and the other things that happened when the Senate resolution proposal was made to the dissipation and division of the Council was made, that, in precisely what it was done, the way it was done, the way the ministry was cut apart, and how there was sometimes a disbarred between the appearance of intention, the reviews would indicate that it could be a violation of a service, a term used by men. This could lead to a certain break in service. Of course, it's just something that's to be expected to be, and I always held it in place, and my company in these discussions that the government has an example of itself, even though it was now, how to switch projects between counseling and then to advise between classes and all. But if you have to do so in a professional way, and that you have to look out for these things exactly, that at this great dissertation, you don't have to do this either that a job goes away to some sort of void or that there's a break in service or that some project falls between a ship and a dock. It always carries a little danger. It's obvious that there's something to be done here in this paper that says that the implementation of a case group within the Iceland Board of Directors and the change of recruitment order has had something to say about this whole thing. It was said that this could take on legislation, it could take on services and all kinds of resources. We talked about how this often seemed to be an ill - prepared and unsatisfactory argument. There we criticized the three parties'involvement in activities, with few in mind when the Ministry is in part subsidized and reassigned to a new minister, and at the same time being assigned to a project. There's more professional work to be done than just that some three people, though good, are handling it. Of course, we also referred to reviews that revealed that the expertise that exists within the Council was not new, and it was not really called to the table until everything had passed. This is all happening here in this case, which I feel is a good reason to act, even though I certainly do not want to interfere with material success, just by no means. I'd like to keep it in place as a result of this discussion that became about the Council of Control and that it was all about the election process but not efficiency. In this context, I would only like to refer to the committee as a smaller part of the Board of Directors and Commission brought on that occasion and there said: No targeted plans or ideas have been presented on how the Ministry will work together and how to secure the flow of information and cooperation between them, which is the key to the restoration. It seems that the government is promising that in one night the work will change simply by writing about it in a report, without preparation, consultation, or involvement of experts and stakeholders, and across the advice of those best familiar with the administrations of government systems. It cannot be overlooked that in the reviews and for visitors called before the committee, there was a serious concern that the implementation of projects between recruitment might in some cases be the cause of the service that institutions are obliged to perform under law. This is then, as I mentioned, one of the points mentioned in the report, as well as the apparently successfulness of the election for the Generalis. This case and what you will see in this report is one of the things that will likely fall into the standard report that will be put together for the changes made in the Council of Control, the great innuendo and how it all works together, and the reality that many people were concerned about and signed including, that the problems may not have been enough to take action. I'm also going to hold on to it that I don't doubt for one minute about the best will. Minister to take good care of children's interests. He has shown it in speeches and literature that he wants to reroute a bit of the classes associated with children and try to coordinate things and do things more efficient in order to give children the doubt and that their interests are always in the presupervise, both in legislation and in all the resources needed to be used when their interests are involved and, of course, I welcome them. But I would also like to know that, before I open my case to declare my disappointments, that despite this good will and beautiful plans and promises, it has gone much slower than all of us, I think, hoping to chop it down, e.g. on the waiting list we're getting reports on, including from the agency of children to be more extended than the rest. There's no evil will behind it. I realize it can be a challenge to have such a huge project, such as the highest. The minister has been speaking, and he is in the middle of an invasion. I make it a point that while I support him for every good work, I would love to see the sign sooner than later on to make plans. So I think that the caution to warn of this transition within the Council of Management and to-do between recruitments, and even between ministers, some of the concern we had seems to be developing, although not far from the legalization of this transition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u146	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech. Just to keep it in its place, by reason of it. A senator was giving a witness and actually trying to draw out that this bill was done on the subject of innuendo and that was, in fact, the main reason, and there were some factors that would be involved, I think that perhaps there is one thing not mentioned in the report, but it is safe to say here, which I think would also have a considerable impact. I think, of course, I've been working on it at the unit level to produce these changes and men have been looking at the practicality of having even two or three districts of child protection in the whole country. The idea in the bill was 6,000 inhabitants. We can see that if we take the country and divide it all down to 6,000, then there's quite a number of districts. I always thought it was a little low, so I'm completely honest, but it was born in a lot of agreements. But even when that's how you feel about moving further on to the effectiveness of your child - welfare system, I feel that there is something that needs to be examined and that will be considered specifically by the Committee. Then I'd like to say, if we only talk about the new Ministry and Council order, that I think exactly that the new Ministry of Education and Children will be incredibly important in reducing to form the need for a Phase 3 service. I feel it only now during the first few months that connecting the school system on the other hand with this social service, on the other hand, can be a real challenge. A senator was also a member of the U.S. talking about this about school service, because people have often been thinking a little bit about silos. I'm quite convinced that when this is checked, it's exactly because we need to expand our ministry and that this will reduce our need at the same time. But I agree with what. Senator, we need to get down the list of waitings on the third level, and it's not just money that is missing there. It's also a conversation and a organizational change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u147	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister for this. I didn't mean to argue that this was the most important thing in the case, the Board of Directors, but I just thought it was very important to keep it in place because it was such a big operation. It was also a very costly operation. In the process, we considered the matter so carefully that it might be difficult to do this. One of the reasons we were pointing out in this was that by breaking down these silos, perhaps some practical things could be achieved in the way of business and all of it. But then came an assembly, and it was also pointed out in the reviews that the fewer and the stronger the Ministry might be better off raising them, as was the case with the work being referred to here. I hope it turns out the way a minister says. I'm right, I realize it takes a lot of time to streamline things like this, and we're only a few months into this election period, and we're going to find out how it works. I hope to the highest. A minister was right that this would result in a better service to children and that waiting lists would be reduced and, of course, the ultimate goal would be to eliminate them completely. I think our children deserve that they will always get right into the service they need. So I'm right here, I'm not here to talk this thing down, I'm just to hold on to these warnings that you seem to be working on now, even though I'm going to let myself be at the highest level. Ministers that hopefully this dispute will always be in order to keep the interests of children in check. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u148	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up and keep this thing going because of what I'm doing. A senator was coming in on this and there was no criticism of his speech in any way, no more than that I am quite convinced of this change. The Ministry of Education and Culture wasn't like that over the years, for quite a while, and with a number of governments - the state has divided too little of the elementary school, what happens there. The amount of money has come from an equation fund. Of course, the basic school law and the school law have been on the hands of a high school minister, but there's far too little conversation about the service there, how the school services are supposed to be, how these techniques should be in school, etc. I'm kind of convinced that this change with this new Ministry will make it possible that we will be able to expand our conversation, and that will be important. Then I just want to celebrate it as a boy. A senator, in his second degree and third degree, says that we need to build a much larger and varied resources and provide the financing model behind them, how it is thought, both to take the conversation with our rural communities about the exchange and the financing model behind them. The task now lies ahead on the basis of the successful legislature is to reorganize all the resources provided by the state and rural society, starting with the third phase of the talk. But we also need first and second measures because they are the ones that can reduce third - degree options. It is not natural in Icelandic society to multiply every year, the children, and the families who need third - degree resources in society. That is why we need to think about it, and it is the thought of getting into a first and second line of options. But I just want to thank you. There was a senator before the speech, and there was nothing more I wanted to come in here but to make these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u149	A respectable president. I think that in itself we agree on the ultimate objective, me and the highest. Minister. At least we'll remember take this case as one of the issues involved in this scarp that the local report will likely address. I think it was supposed to be around my terms, and then it's one of the things we must have to look into in terms of this. But in other respects, I just want to thank the highest. Minister for communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u150	President. Hv. A member of the council discussed the very change in the order of counsel, as well as other circumstances that delay the introduction of this matter. There's talk of delays in a case that costs money, money, access, but what a minister says saves long - term money. At the same time, however, the assessment of the effect is that the delay in the implementation of these rules will not affect the financial status of the State or the community. It can't stand. If this really saves long - term funds, then we must be delaying that money. Then the cost we're using in our present system must be greater in longer time anyway. The same costs we're trying to get rid of will continue for a longer time. There's an assessment of the effects of a delay, including due to the changed order of recruitment, which is to have a negative impact on the financial and community, but it is still stated by a minister that it is not. I wonder, what. A senator, because we carefully examined the costs of changes in the budget, whether this is not another cost to the changing order of recruitment, hidden in various government induction routes that might have benefited earlier. But all this work is being delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u151	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. What I was up to was to recall, because I think it's good to keep it up at every opportunity, that when people do these extreme things, and when they do it with the tactics they had, and we criticized it very hard at the time, when they pick up some cost number, whatever this option, they can't pick it all up. Of course, humans cannot predict everything, but they can be identified, and they were tried. Of course, the cost is hidden. That's in the very nature of it. Some of these can be observed afterward, but others cannot. And even though we are talking about this now, this is true of many other matters and many other departments, and more is going to come up busy in it. But the vertebral device in what I was trying to do was just exactly this: We criticized it when this government was written how little was called after diagnosis, and we looked at experts as to how the effect of this specific review would be, how convenient it would be to have so much innuendo, e.g. I think that everyone was willing to sign that it may well be justified to divide the Council in a certain way, although it may mean an increased cost in a given field if the overall vision and emphasis are placed on the back, that was e.g. Talk about the state of the environment and the like, as one of the higher goals to promote. Of course, we cannot always know in advance. But I completely agree with that as it is. A senator was saying that the cost of this office's dissociation is hidden, and this may be one example of that. Some of us will be able to trace directly to this point, but other things will remain hidden from the cost but the cost to the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u152	President. I think it's remarkable that things like this should not be hidden from the expense. It should evaluate the impact and cost of a management project, the timing of their recovery, or whether it will not do so, which means that if there is a delay in performance, the costs and the ways it increases, either the costs of the new project or the benefits, are fully known. It is very easy to see how the effect will be. So it should be easy to show us the effects of delaying administrative activities that should go through this professional process for the assessment of costs, priorities, and the like. But maybe because it's not done, we get like this bill, that they just don't have a clue about it and they don't go to work to assess the effects, although it's very obvious that they'll be somebody in relation to the minister's words. It would only be true that this would have no effect on the financial and community if the cost of implementing these laws were to be exactly the same as in the present system and the effects and benefits would be exactly the same as in the present system, which would say no change. It's the only chance that there would be no impact on the interest of a state and a community, and it would be ironic if we were going through all these changes and did not get any benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u153	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the sake of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, just to commend him for being awake and asleep in these matters, and when it comes to trying to identify and assess the location of some financial hazard. He has been very alert to that work, both when it comes to the budget and so on. This thing that turns to the inculturating advice I just mentioned, I just want to wait and see, so I'll bring it up, e.g. what comes from this local assessment report. I felt so tiny at the time when it was put in that it was done like this because people felt that they had not quite a solid land under their feet when they were leaving in an effort to determine the reasons for the exposition and move of a project, because this often seemed to be a bit random, that then it could be a good act of putting some kind of place into it. This is a very difficult discussion for a man because I am so deeply at heart that a government at any given time should be able to shape the Council of Government as it seems to be in accordance with some higher objective. This government identified a pandemic and the climate as higher goals and all good and blessed by it. But there were so many other things that were done and said and many other replacements that you can't see evidence to be directly supportive of those goals. But I have to say, I'm very excited to see what comes out of this local profile and where these expensive traps lie. There will be some experience. We're calling from sources to see if there's any projects, including... in the field of work. Ministers here on the move, falling between ships and piers, or being overly complicated. But there must be time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u154	President. As fine as these were, all of the members of the panels worked together in a well - known way at a Senate Committee, there are certain points that interest me, especially as a member of the budget board. This is something I've said many times before for some reason nothing has happened yet, and then I'm moved to remind myself of it once again to encourage ministers to do things right, hopefully. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson was telling us about the local balance report. The standard report, such as this, is not clear enough to allow a subsequent assessment of whether or not to be performed. The same thing with the Minister's annual reports. We have a financial program and provide specific guidelines on how governments will achieve their policies. The scales are simply rather poor to measure what you would call success. I have considered it several times before taking this matter in particular, considering that delay in the implementation of these decisions will not affect the financial status of the State or the community. It is only true if the cost of handling these matters is the same as it was in the present system and if the effect is the same as it is in the present system once it has been changed. In the end, there is no real benefit. It will continue to be exactly the same cost in the whole system, perhaps shift to where the force of pressure lands, but the whole, which is exactly the same. Then I'm always trying to pick up all the Ministers and tell them that local security reports, these annual reports, are nothing but explanatory details of how it was done. It is virtually possible to make up how government policies were successful. They can constantly boast over and over because their standards are so poor that any remaining standard can be drawn up in order to tell how successful they were. If localised report on e.g. Coming through the middle of this terms, and the act of the law is being delayed they're also doing a little early in that. Will the local report arrive later? There are certainly various factors in this system that should be able to draw up, e.g. stress on third measures, and first and second measures as well, and see how many people are coming in there, etc. You can draw up a hell of a set of records there. But overall, it is compared with the government law, which makes me especially 20 percent. legal on public financial matters, on government policy. This bill is a major part of government policy in advance, despite the fact that there was no emphasis on this series, so I remember in the 2017 election. Even so, we received a child - care minister who fell into the process that was being prepared for them, suitable, but definitely was some flag used in the last election. You have to take seriously the extent to which much of government policy this is during this ideal period. Then I'd like to remind you of the responsibility of a minister of policy-making policies for the subject and the litigations that he hears, by permission of the president: In the first place, policy measures are aimed to ensure that the objectives and priorities of each subject are identified and that there are clear priorities, Second, policy measures include formal analyses and assessments of the status of services and activities of the individual topic areas. Such analyses may, e.g. showing that there will be a reevaluation of the basis for a particular service or arrangement. - It's very accurate, very necessary that it be accurate. Third, by the permission of the President, a decision in policy development is being made which way to achieve the desired objectives. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their different factors. Here it is the obligation of the government to draw out many different opportunities to reach set goals, to consider the cost and benefits of each other, and then to choose the most efficient or efficient, not necessarily the most practical, or simply the most efficient way, though perhaps the most expensive way. It is a political estimate of which way to choose, where political bitch enters. Here we have received a professional analysis of the available routes and the cost effects of these findings. Then it is the political decision of the government whether to choose the most practical route that may not bring good results or an expensive way, but it results in great success. Then comes the government, and it has to be that one point is being chosen above another. This is the priority, the priority between these means. Whether the government considers it to be more important, practical, or influential, e.g.? By permission of the President: Fourth, policy measures include the final development, defined and priorities of the analyses work done. Targets should be obvious, objective, and measurable. Special emphasis should be paid to define the quality of the service to be performed in relation to the amount of funds designed for its purpose and to specify when setting goals should be met. To improve the rate of success, goals need to be met and the results will have to be adjusted. Here you would estimate that when the induction of these laws is delayed, there would be an assessment of the effect precisely because there is a diagnosis, there should be an analysis, of when to achieve certain results. The standards are there, and then it should be possible to determine what changes they are. It's an assessment of the effect. It would be here: a 5% increase in the first level of service, not a 3% increase -- so I'll just pull some numbers out of the hat there. And go ahead, with President's permission: They need to be defined as tasks and actions, including adjustments to set goals are required. It is important to be consistent, that the responsibility and role of different parties are reviewed, and that key risk factors and challenges are generally assessed. Here again: This is a business of cooperation between the state and many rural society, in terms of finance, for example. into an equation fund and then this cooperation with many rural communities across each area, which covers many rural areas. So finally: sixthly, a strategy for the implementation of the individual aspects of the policy will have to be submitted, in order to ensure harmonization and to set priorities and to set deadlines and a planned cost. It is expected that the implementation of individual projects and initiatives in Member States' policies to three years shall be agreed by the local minister. There should be a way to tell the exact effect on this in such a delayed bill, but it is certain that delay in the implementation of these regulations will not affect the financial status of the state or the community. If it's true, and we're willing to believe what it says in Congress, then I'm worried about these laws, normal. If this isn't true, I'm worried about the money. [[Up front.]] It's very easy to worry about when it's like this. It is normal to be concerned about this class, especially with the results of this promise, when it is delayed. I'm gonna go over to 21. ... whichis very important too. It says, with the permission of a president: ◯ Any Minister shall be returned the proposal for the exchange of legal rights [...] on the bill for the budget to come to the Minister's office. There, the secretary shall return to the minister. We're talking about the Minister of Ministers to the Secretary of Economics, it's got to be clear. Around the 21st floor. it states: "In its law, each minister gives the legal rights to the legal sector and the seminaries to the minister. " So that's the secretary of finance. I find this very interesting because I've heard it over and over in the past few weeks that the Ministry of Justice is being visited by a financial committee, saying, "This is a legal procedure. Here's a job we need to do. It's gonna cost this, and it's gonna cost a lot. And we're going to say to the Ministry of Economics, here are our legal proposals for this suit. And the Ministry of finance says no. I wonder who's in charge here. It is not said in this article that the minister of finance can say no, just that the Ministers should submit their proposal to a financial minister who could determine a harmony and such. But in these financial provisions, when the Ministers are collected, the frames we then work on, and we reason here at council to see if there are good priorities and so on. But Secretary of finance says no. So I wondered, because we don't have this so-called multi-organ administration, why is the secretary of finance allowed to hire the legal rights of a professional minister when a professional minister is responsible for carrying out a law that is in his realm of responsibility? It's the professional secretary assessment, e.g. The implementation of success laws is $2 billion, and this is a proposal made to the minister of finance. What basis does the secretary of finance have for saying no? I can't figure it out. I don't understand, especially because it's the highest. Secretary of education and child care, responsible for these laws, not the Minister of finance. If a financial minister would say no in that case, what responsibility would be given to those who need to accept this service or to just do this service at all? It's not a secretary of finance who has the legal authority, it's the General. I'll keep up with the fact that a financial committee and the General will not even be allowed to disunite these matters from professionals. We have no idea if there have really been a set up on a number of legal codes, so they're actually funded with financial resources because the Minister of Ministers said: "No, you get less money than you think or think you need to fulfill your responsibilities and your duties as a professional minister. So, then, where are we in the administration board, our board of directorship?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u155	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech. I think it's a very interesting subject, and I think we've been discussing this before, once or twice, exactly what it was before. A senator is coming in. That's what I want to talk about. A senator but only before I want to enter the cost assessment of this case because I was witnessing the economic benefits of the big legislation. There we were working on these diagnostics as a matter of course. A senator was talking about. As for the Child Protection Act, it should only be acknowledged that we did not do as much deep and detailed analysis of it, but we are now working on it in the New Education and Children's Ministry of Education to create it so that we are working in the same way as we worked successfully. I just want to say, of course, that every case has some impact on state and community. It's in the eye. Everything we do here at the council has some effect. However, I doubt that if the organization is being changed on whether it is politically elected child - welfare committees or regional councils, it would have an excessive financial impact. This would be more effective if you were to consider some options, so they say. We have these analyses of success, and we're working on them. But what I feel is missing into special children's issues is all this economic analysis. When we're talking about these softer things, which are well - being and educational and such matters, we're not so much about identifying their economics. It wasn't and is generally not done in the national system. So we have to change, and that's what we're doing and we're going to do with all the issues to come out of the new department. We're getting it ready. But also have some statistical measurements on children's affairs. We don't have them. We are not measuring the well - being and effectiveness of children, and we are trying to change that, too. The farms are initiating a panel. It's starting a question cart now in connection with our partnership with the university into any school that we can send every year to have these zero positions and these statistics, because how are we going to measure the results if we don't have statistics and are not collecting data and are not detecting the economic results? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So when it happened. A senator on the budget asks me that it's just an honest answer: We don't have these numbers, but we need them, and we're trying to change them, so we'll have them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u156	President. Especially since the Council is not going to cover more than 6,000 people, it's supposed to reduce the number of areas to cover more, it's being changed here, we'd see a decrease. There are not nearly as many members of this event as are currently members of the Child Welfare Committees. It will inevitably lead to loss of money, at least in the way. Even though that is not a lot of money, it is money anyway. This is one of a number of people per year, and so on, I would guess it's even tens of millions for their communities. If it's a six-month delay or something about the same, six months on how many places the difference is, it's pretty fast. It's worth it. During the past five years, I have heard that chorus song a lot. Several of these tips are just ignored, despite the fact that public financial laws are very clear and how to do this, all sorts of interpretations by the Ministry of finance on what this really means, something quite different than the fact that you see a clearly defined article on the bill. As a result, I rejoice that a minister will make it clear that this will happen, but he asks, "When can we expect it to happen? " In the next budget, perhaps that's what it's pointing to? Just a crude close-up at the expense of each law section would be a great help in dealing with this total financial frame and the follow-up of the budget. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't have to be very precise, just like a ballpark, about, by permission of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u157	A respectable president. What we're going to do is introduce the economic approach used to the success programme in the new education and child-friendly department so that it covers all the seminaries involved in sports, leisure, youth service, social services, education systems, play, elementary and high school. The problem is, we don't see the cost. All that is presented in this issue today is not about to bring any benefit in one, two, three years, nothing that can be said. Yeah, well, maybe the only value less in some child protection committee, etc., but the benefits will be 10, 15, 20 years. We need to appreciate this and have a number of criteria on what it is due and when and what options are being submitted and when. We don't have it today, but we did it in our own happiness. Then we did this in the affairs of prisoners, using the same algorithms in the Ministry of Social Affairs, although I don't have that case anymore, and we're going to do this at the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, i.e. to turn it around like that. We're now working on planning changes in the Ministry to sharpen this, so I'm assuming that the next fall we're supposed to be able to start walking towards this. But all of a sudden, we're gonna get all the litigation at once? No, because we need to build the basis for each of our individual systems of education. Then I think we should be able to take point position any time. When evaluating a case like this, a dollar and a cent must be put on it because it is so difficult to come to a trustee like that. A senator, and he says, "I want money in this because it's coming back so bad. Then it's just something out of the bag, we don't know anything about it. [[The president calls.]] We all want to do well, but we're working with public money, and that's why I think it's really important. I'm happy to hear it. A senator of this and just encouraged him to beat me and other ministers forward in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u158	A respectable president. It is true that these are small coins for the first time, and the big money comes 10 to 20 years later, absolutely. However, we also have a report on the long - term economic outlook in the economy, which is a work-up report and review every three years. That would just be an opportunity for the highest. A minister to show only on the cost of child support for more years for the next report, which should be published in the next year compared to three years, although the first report has been published last year, was delayed for a long time, let's see how it works. But that is exactly the opportunity to set up this group for the next time, such as. 30 years of age in terms of demographic changes, etc., the current situation and the long-term effects of demographics on fewer children being completely reduced to third-order measures. I visited the armory a few weeks ago and, for example, a few weeks ago. Just the resources, which is really a contractor's payment, would require a grossly estimated 150 such a person on a national level who would cover the need. The cost is 1.2 billion, which is really the same. [[Up front.]] It doesn't really take much more than that, and it already exists in the system. The solution is totally there, anyway, a part of it, and I think the will is there, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u159	President. I'd like to start by answering a question. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son earlier, speaking of options for children with severe developmental, behavioural and mental problems. And no, there is no relevant option for that group. This is naturally a very serious situation faced by both societies and countries. For this group, there is a real need for resources that are very heavy and very demanding. There is no special service, there is no resources, and there is no need for awareness, for this is not a police matter, and these children are not to be treated as criminals or other. We need to approach this group with compassion, respect, and tact and new options. V.E.G. Secretary of education and child care earlier said there were no data on, e.g. Feel of children and things. I want to point the highest. The minister of education and child care is that investigation and analysis have been provided to students in elementary schools, and particularly in high school, anyway, since I was a child. There are data on their 2007 website where you can see how students feel and more information about the interesting children of the country. I hope this information is used in the Ministry in cooperation with research and analysis or other experts in this field. We're here talking about children and child protection and child welfare committees, and I'd like to re-enter the research and analysis of children's well - being in 2022. It shows that children in the 8th, 9th, and 10th grade, who were to answer whether the claim is a happy or happy one, would feel worse than before. Children in America are feeling worse. In 2018, 41% of children in the 10th grade said that this sentence described them well, but now in 2022, 28% of children in the 10th grade say that this sentence, I am happy or happy, expresses them well. Happiness is smaller for every class of youth in the country, 8th, 9th and 10th grade. The next statement they examined from Research and analysis was: I am happy with my life. 40% of children in 2018 said that this sentence was appropriate. In 2022, 27% of children in the 10th grade are happy with their lives or at least say that this claim describes them very well. Violence in children has also increased. In 2012, 78 crimes of violence were recorded by police where suspects were less than 18 years old, but in 2021, 219 were broken. 90 children 17 years of age and younger also have criminal records, and it is not specified for how long. I just want the highest. The Minister of Education and Child Affairs has these figures in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u160	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and thank you. Today, a senator gives good advice on these matters and clearly recognizes that they are familiar with such matters. I'd like to say that because the senator took the discussion. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson had a little further, on the statistics and what we are doing and how we are doing this, that in success, there is the thought that evidence and a level are the heart of that system. One thing is to have all the information about this distress, about all the things that are being collected here and there and always being pointed to, the interest groups in children point to etc., and then when we start planning the options we're going to take to help in these situations, we need to know what works and what doesn't work. Therefore, we are building this new level of measurement, which is supposed to be the heart of this success law, to become the control device to control what we do and what we don't do, because there is one thing to measure the economic benefit, and so it is to measure the benefits of well - being, how the children are doing, how they're doing, and so on. and let these two talk. In this regard, we have to be able to hold it in such data systems and levels. Let's take one of those as a boy. A senator was witnessing earlier, but he was not feeling well. Okay, what measures are involved? Can We Deal With? Is there anything in these children to do elsewhere, can we run variables from other systems to figure out something else that could be done to relieve feelings of distress? What Does Sleep Mean? What are some of the effects of leisure and other factors? Listen, there's a strategy that's being used north of Akureyri that works well. Is it, it works well? How do we know that? How do we recommend it? How do we measure the results? That's what I'm thinking. This is why we started to be successful. There are a lot of useful tools and many more that we need to build up. [[The president calls.]] But as a government, we need to have a standard of what is active and what is not. Then I just want to say thank you. A senator for good speeches today. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to following her in discussions about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u161	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the child for the counter-sponsore. Yeah, I agree, everything has to be measured. We don't know if things work unless we measure them. It's just that way. There are a number of well - chosen options, both abroad and that have been introduced here with varying success and so little financial gain. There's been a lot of problems. But I'm just glad we're working on making resources or implementing resources elsewhere, since we're probably not going to invent the bike all the time, but, of course, also making resources of the variety and creating resources that are suitable for different groups. I also think it is important to consider that children and violence in this context as well as to take some thought about having children's criminal records and other factors and how this can have the effect, for example, on children. in self - image and other matters, since this is not what we want to pursue in our modern world. We know that methods are more effective when we build individuals and that individuals are without criminal record when they are 17. A child's criminal record and acts of violence can have a devastating effect on him. I think there's going to be a total work to be done, and I hope they're going to have a lot of different professions, and they're gonna have to do a lot of business. - But I just want to thank you for this discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u162	A respectable president. I would like to use the time in my second speech to reiterate the fact that the changes that took place last year, which were establishing child welfare services and the district counsels of child protection, were simply too complicated, to adopt this double system, this child welfare service, which was based on 6,000 citizens, and then the Children's District Council of Children's Protection. I believe that the reason for the continuation of the implementation of the legislation under this bill suggests that it is correct. A report on the continuation of this new system shows that people thought that less than a year would be enough to implement this system, but the case has been different. As shown in the report, these changes are very extensive and complicated and time - consuming. I believe the few, especially in the country, are simply so much that they do not have a double system. It is much simpler to review this so that even on the basis of voters, child - welfare committees will be united, that the Northwestern District, my district, will be made up of only one health - care committee assigned to a professional, even in a fixed position, which, if needed, can call on experts in specific matters. Then there will be a national baby protection committee. If so, the decisions made by this key Child Welfare Committee could be called to the national decision - making committee and then to the courts. Today, the system is a matter for child welfare committees that go from there to courts. I have personally been a member of the Child Welfare Committee, given the weighty role in 2008, and as I described in my previous speech, I had to read through a huge pile of cases over a long weekend and make decisions as a member of the committee on Tuesday after reading the data, this huge pile. It was simply too much, and yet I am a trained lawyer, and I can imagine what it is like for the political organizations - I was a natural political commission so fixed -- which are not used to these jobs, especially in the few. I reiterate that these changes didn't go far enough. I hope to the highest. The minister and the new committee he is going to appoint again considered this to simplify the system further and increase professional knowledge, especially with regard to the rural and surrounding areas. The simplicity should only be an even greater number of child protection committees, have professionals in them, and that there could be a higher level of government charges, not courts. There is a much higher court case. All court hearings are fixed while the committees can have only professionals. As I have said before, we can look to the head of a tax committee and that there is simply more justice in tax matters than in child protection, and it is totally unacceptable. I'll be representing my platoon as the highest commission. A minister has appointed, and I look forward to sharing in that work. I believe child - protection laws are one of the most important legislation involved by the General. We are now in the beginning of the election, and I have no doubt that we can have very perfect child protection laws and put them first in the next semester. I would have even wished that the deadline was longer than just a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u163	A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this far, I just wanna say thank you. A senator and I look forward to cooperation with him and with all the other members of the council because I think these matters are so that we should be able to do them cross-orderly. If we're going to overcome such big changes, we're going to have to think this way because there's only one big change in two, three terms, very large, so I can't wait to cooperate. A senator. For these child protection issues, we're doing what we're saying. It was a great deal of reconciliation during the last terms. I can say with what. A senator, here in a speech earlier today, said that I personally thought this 6,000 minimum should have been higher. However, there was something in agreement. We are taking steps in a particular direction, but there are conflicting opinions. But I think it was important and that these matters as a whole had gone through only because we had reached a relatively good deal about them. It is now that when we have state, rural society, representatives of all political parties, and all councils that all of them never get everything, and that's what the Minister became. Still, the steps are big and important, and I look forward to cooperation with it. A senator on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u164	Thank you very much. Ministers warm and good words on this matter. I'm very happy that I did. Ministers have made this their main policy. He had quite a reputation in his last term working on child protection, and I have no doubt that his ambition will be even more during his next term. I think the approach in this case needs to be the child's interests, the child's interests. I know there are complex interests behind this, political and rural phases and other things, but we have to be able to work this completely together, and it's to be arranged that we can work this thing across all groups without any political issues on policy issues and such. The policy is to be alone, and it is to keep the interests of children in first place. It simplifys the whole court case. I think our weaknesses are the rural population, the country's population, and if we can overcome it and turn it up in this category, we're in good business on child welfare in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u165	A respectable president. Then, after weeks of waiting, a memo is finally arrived from the State Bankisit Office as a legal committee meeting in the morning. As a result, members of the United States have several hours to learn about this. Today, a memo published by the Ministry of finance was of interest to many things, including those found. to determine whether to accept or reject an offer, despite the fact that his father was among the buyers, when he made a decision regarding the right to accept or reject a government law, no circumstances were in place. This, of course, is all very different, and it will be interesting to continue this discussion in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u166	Madam President. I was going to file a meeting board on the next case, since I am the very first man on the rosary. There was a discussion earlier today that a minister would come and conduct a story where a minister was not present when this bill was submitted and his replacement could not quite answer our questions. But now it seems that I myself am next to a rosary, and I am sorry that a minister has been unable to keep what the president said he would be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u167	A respectable president. It's coming to the top. A minister who was just asked to be here during the discussion of fish farming, and I welcome him. This was discussed at the meeting of the council classes with the highest order. President to the highest. In fact, a minister would say in this discussion because he was not here the last time the subject was on the program, and the Senate would love to hear his position, and even his answers to some of the questions raised by his substitute could not be answered when the matter was in question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u168	A respectable president. I'm now accustomed to running for supply, but I'm feeling this huge demand that's part of it. Of course, members of the government's stand are something that warms your heart. As people know them, I could not measure this bill to legalize the laws of loyalty and pollution, fish farming laws and the environmental assessment laws and estimates. That's right. That's right. Ólafsson It was negotiated that I would at two o'clock today give a brief talk about this, but it's definitely 2 o'clock somewhere else, so there's probably only one brief speech to share in the conversation on this matter. The main purpose of the bill is to address the perspective of the EFTA, ESA, for temporary use in fish farming. The bill was written at the Environment, Energy and Climate Ministry in close cooperation with the Food Ministry. The plans for the legislation and the specification of the bill were presented in the government's consultations and in the discussion section of a series of references and responses. On April 14, 2020, the EFTA (EU) Commission published their preliminary outcome in a case due to the provision of temporary and temporary release from operating conditions for fish farms. The preliminary results of ESAs depend on comments due to certain rules in fish farming and the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention and that they do not agree with the EU Environmental Assessment Directive as interpreted by the European Court. The findings that led to the core interim outcome of ESAs were in a way that a temporary cut-off for dysfunction had been granted to two operators in fish farms, particularly to prevent irreversible damage to valuables. In accordance with the defects indicated by the Environmental Decisions No. 3/2018 and No. 5/2018 where the license of the party was canceled. In accordance with ESA guidelines, such temporary legal measures are authorised by the EU Environmental Assessment Directive but are also mandatory in the legislation. The directive does not directly address the consequences of implementation on the basis of future environmental assessment, but in the European Court's implementation certain minimum requirements have been developed and taken into account in this bill. The changes proposed in the bill are primarily relevant to the provisional measures in cases where permission has been eliminated due to the limitations of environmental assessment. This includes meeting the laws on the environmental assessment and the estimates in the government's opinion and having the right to the exception of a judicial hearing. The bill makes it clear that provisional sources will only be provided that all necessary adaptations of environmental assessments are necessary to meet the requirements for environmental assessment in accordance with the environmental assessment requirements. A review of the environmental assessment should be performed at the beginning of the procedure. It will only be provided temporarily in exceptional circumstances, such as to prevent waste of valuables or accidents or for the sake of public interests and urgent financial support is needed. The public's access to the decision-making process is expected as well as the provision of provisional sources for provisional measures from a Minister to the institution, i.e. The EEA and the Food Agency are hereby charged with the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. The bill also provides the above suggestions for specific changes to the environmental assessment of projects and programmes. These suggestions are in line with the changes proposed to the rules of fish farming and to correct the method of loyalty and pollution and to offer suggestions for increasing clarity or refinement of certain restrictions. These are proposed changes to VI. section A Guide on loyalty and pollution prevention of carbon dioxide depletion in ground law. These changes are due to a total of Icelandic governments at the EFTA facility for the implementation of the European Parliament directive and the Council for the storing of carbon dioxide in the earth. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u169	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his speech. As far as I can see, this bill is, in fact, a set of legislation that enables the Food Agency to overlook the environmental and resource decrees that environmental assessment is defective. This is, in effect, establishing a valid environmental assessment to be effective even if only after that. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he is convinced that these changes in the law currently proposed will fully deliver EEA's right to environmental assessment and duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The question is, do Ministers believe this bill will fully measure EEA? That's what the game's made, a respectable president, and if it is. A candidate makes comments that this is something that does not work, so it is important that it come out and then act in the process. I think we should just talk about things like they're already up to these things. I'm not just getting to know it as a minister of this suit. I was both a member of the committee and a chairman of the court. The Environment Committee, in the past and my experience, is that such issues need to be handled very carefully. Even if the will is good, it is a matter that requires careful consideration. This has been done in the Ministry and in the consultation process I used to use in my speech earlier. But then we have what. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will call all major experts because the aim is to meet the EEA rights. It is clear that this game is designed for that purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u171	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I ask this because it is a key issue in Directive 2011/92 from the European Union that the conditions for granting implementation and work permit for activities with significant environmental impact are that environmental assessment, a valid environmental assessment has been carried out before approval. I don't know better than that Land Protection and even more environmental organizations have expressed doubts that the way here is definitely going for EEA rights and the government, like the highest level. Ministers know, burn themselves to set laws that do not meet those criteria for valid environmental assessment. That's why I'm asking Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether he is not concerned that this law will, in effect, reduce a little of his teeth from environmental assessment requirements and agents can, with these new frames, deliberately contribute environmental evaluations that do not meet opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u172	A respectable president. This bill is not allowing MAST to accept a defective assessment. It says: It is specially required that patients who have received employment or employment permit are excluded from acceptable treatment to meet the relevant requirements, including the opinion of the Agency on the environmental assessment of the relevant Member State, which then allows to be canceled due to certain limitations. Therefore, it cannot be agreed that it is an incentive to put in inadequate environmental assessments, confident that they will be authorized on temporary basis. With the bill it is safe to be careful that legislation does not offer up the EU rules to end the requirements for improving environmental costs of temporary permission. Of course, the bill's objective, as I mentioned, is to fulfill EEA right. I really like people talking about it here, and they're important, but they're making strict demands. Then there's a reason. Of course, members of the council have the opportunity to discuss this again at the Assembly Hall as well as at the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u173	A respectable president. We have to look back on this matter a little bit. In October 2018, the Icelandic government changed the fish - farming law, but it was not as successful as it was in violation of eight sources of environmental assessment regulations in the EU. The EEA Convention, ESA, has concluded that this was a violation. There was a license to be given without environmental assessment and without public access. Although this was a preliminary failure, it was a business permit. It's the highest word here. Ministers that this must be established to prevent irreversible damage to valuables, i.e. if you have an unrecognised environmental assessment but still are in business, you can continue in business. What's the bottom line? Environment Minister to prevent irreparable damage to the common value of the nation that marine, water, and life in the seas? That we're not going so hard on the nature of the country that we're allowing ourselves to be at the root of the authority to issue a temporary license in spite of inadequate environmental assessment? Don't you think the values in life are of no importance? Is it only about the fish money?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I have to admit, I don't quite understand where it came from. A senator will come when she makes this statement. There's a reason we're doing this. That's perfectly clear. And why have these rules and laws been established? Yes, it is in order to protect the environment and when people go into things like this or what else is done in such a way that it is the least damaged. What happens and what happens. A senator refers here to whom no one here in this hall, I think, that came to, i.e. When ESAs make their comments, we return with a bill to meet ESA comments. So it is. In case of a moment. A senator wants me to discuss here what I think matters when it comes to living things, I'm sure. The purpose of this is to meet the requirements and comments from the ESA. If the situation becomes apparent that there are some major factors in it, we'll just put it back together. That's what the game's made for. If we don't, the one standing here or the one who comes after me has to go through the same circle. I think our time is much better spent on other things, with all due respect to bringing a bill to meet comments because the bill and the procedure of the day were not in harmony with what was suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u175	A respectable president. Governments are being turned over and the highest. The importance of adequate environmental assessment should be met by a minister. Those known in this category have noted that this bill is in place of certain ozone levels and that there is a measure of environmental compromise when allowing for fish farming. That's the problem. There's a procedure in the law that's unannounced about permission, employment permit, conflicting with environmental assessment. That's the problem. You don't make up for it by putting it in place, putting it into the law. [[The president calls.]] That's not how we do it. We need to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. But this case has been brought, as I traced here, to meet the viewpoint of the ESA. That's what the game's made for. They thought that we had not properly introduced this environment, and the rules were that it was not sufficient. Then there's a way to fix it. That's what they're doing. Why else would people present a bill like this? That's why I don't completely understand this whole presentation and approach, so I'm completely honest with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u177	A respectable president. I'm just trying to figure out what this is all about and I just have to say right now, it's a provisional warrant. It is clearly on page 18. 7 on the grounds and need of legislation, that they are responding to a complaint that had been sent to ESA due to the provision of temporary and temporary release from employment permits to fish farms. They're creating a temporary warrant here. Why temporarily? It must be to get past something. And miss what? It's an environmental assessment. Who's going to lose it? It is nature and those in the respective areas. I've been going through the news of fish farming today, and there's been a tremendous increase in salmon lice on the West. How has this affected us? Yes, with poisoning that has caused the damage to lobster and shrimp life's life forms and certainly more species. Why don't we just stand with nature? No license will be published until all standards have been met accurately, so that natural nature is completely in doubt and that no harm is being done. We are to guard against what has been going on in Norway and how polluted seawater has become. This is, I would say, one of the most polluted industrial systems we have today on the environment and we have a responsibility not to publish anything temporarily or something like this, but to stop it. We'll just be clear and clear before something's published.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for his answer, and I think he's pretty clear when it comes to this. He's just really worried about fishing in the sea and he's not alone. I can easily understand those views. But in this case, the setting that exists, it will not prevent, or there can be no promise that there will be no negative things about the fish fire, even if this case had been in a way that ESA did not comment on it. It's not that good. It was quite clear, and there was a lot of discussion about when men started taking the fish fire that we were taking a risk, some thinking it was too risky, some considered it acceptable, when we were going to fish farms in the sea. It's just a special talk. I can totally understand why. When it comes to fishing in the sea, a senator did so. Government policy has been to have as strict a rule as it can be about this activity, and so has our friend Norse. I don't know that they have any other approach but that they have very strict rules. Still, they have faced severe problems, and we have seen accidents here with us. But in this case, this is about the setting of this rule that we know, and we're making it out of our cooperation in the EEA, that it's all done right. Then there is just another debate about whether we want to go further and don't want to see fish farms in the sea. There's another discussion. On the other hand, when we discuss this in general, I find that land fishing has gone well, and hopefully it will work out well. At least it is not the same risk there, although she may be someone else in that trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u179	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I agree deeply with him. But what we're going to do here is, of course, that they're giving us temporary access to work. What for? Why not just have it in such a way that when the requirements are met are complete? I don't think the ESA says we have to create some temporary license. I doubt it. I think we just have the authority to decide on our own to take it so that there is no provisional license. There will only be clear laws that there will be no operations until everything is taken care of and everything is as it should be. Then I'd say we're probably going better with nature. But, of course, it would be wishful, as a minister said, and I would have liked to see here a more strict law and preferably a law that saw to it that we'd stop this uninhabited sea farm and bring it up ashore, because it shows that there's a lot of environmental management. The food supply can be used for all kinds of living, and it can also be used for all kinds of crops, one of the best for plants and other things. So we're working really hard on changing this. I sincerely hope that a minister agrees with me in that we are not supposed to be giving out temporary licenses. We're just supposed to assume that there's only full leave and that's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u180	The President refused to press the one-minute button and apologize for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u181	Thank you. A senator again. I'm going to repeat what came out, it's actually technical, it's not political. It says here about the bill: It is made clear in the bill that provisional sources will only be provided that all adaptations of environmental assessments are necessary to meet the requirements for environmental assessment in accordance with the implementation and strategy requirements. A review of the environmental assessment should be performed at the beginning of the procedure. It will only be provided temporarily in exceptional circumstances, such as to prevent waste of valuables or accidents or for the sake of public interests and urgent financial support is needed. The public's access to the decision-making process is expected as well as the provision of provisional sources for provisional measures from a Minister to the institution, i.e. The EEA and Food Organization, thereby suing the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. In other words, and I think I can say that, that there is always assumed that some things can arise that are not seen and that men must then have some process in it. That process was not good enough by previous legislation, and humans are trying to correct it and to set stricter standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u182	A respectable president. Here's a bill with a pattern. The pattern is that the State violates law, the supervisor reproves the Kingdom, and the State tries to establish laws that justify wrongdoing. Here is the environment that passes this process and this pattern. We've seen this happen before, and we're seeing it happen again. One example of this is what the present government did with its trustees. The perps who refused to do Covid tests were sent out to the street in the middle of the winter. It was condemned illegally, and now we see another foul bill submitted in which to authorize all of that. Back in spring, it was the highest possible test. Healthcare Minister the same with a bill on forced labor, but, fortunately, the minister knew how to pull it back. Yes, we want to allow the destruction of nature in an irrefutable way because we want to make money contaminated. All of this is then justified by allowing the public to participate in the decision - making process. In 1969, Sherry wrote one Arnstein great article on species and the public's record of decision making. It defined eight steps, starting from a mere mismanagement of people to full - time democracy. This bill that is being presented here is at most a second step called the Arnstein. A respectable president. This reminds me, too, of the following conversation from the book on the road trip to the space of the heavens, called in English, by the permission of the president, The progress to the Galaxy. I would like to read the following conversation from the book, with the permission of the president: ▪ Yes, but the plans were made public. ▪ Official? I had to go in the basement to find them. Yeah, there's the publicity department. I needed a flashlight. Oh, yeah, the bulbs were probably cracked or broken. ▪ Yes, the same thing was true in the stairs. He was broken. Yeah, but you didn't find the plans? ▪ Yes, I did, on the bottom of a locked closet, which had a sign on the door on it: Watch out for the spott path.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, but I'd like to make some reviews. First, this is not about the state's bringing a law to justify some offense. This is how we produce very little of what is going on in the European Union, but we produce laws because we participate in a certain part of the work together. Here's the thought: There are the same rules in the area. So if it happened. A senator is going to be working elsewhere, but in Iceland he can, given that we are participating in the market partnership, confident that there are the same rules, e.g. In Germany and Iceland. Then there are the surveillance agencies, the EFTA countries, the ones in the EEA, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, we have ESAs, and then they have other similar organizations. If, for some reason, we're not meeting certain things, we're not doing things right, then it doesn't really matter to some politics in it, it's not some opinion of those who work in the monitoring agency, but it's not done according to the book, and they say, "It's not right. But it has nothing to do with determining the opinions of people on fish farms or from other sources, nothing. Then we can take the discussion of fish farming or other employment practices. In this case, it's just about the setting, it didn't measure up according to these rules. This is the case in order to fulfill it. Then we can discuss whether fishing in seawater or other employment policies are good for nature or acceptable and other things, and doing so can be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u184	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for lesson in how the EEA contract works. In fact, I got that class when I started with a foreign legal committee, so we had been explained how these things work. But what I was pointing out about had nothing to do with fish farming a per is that a surveillance agency points out that we are doing things wrong and instead of simply acknowledging that we were doing things wrong, the government goes in order to put a law that allows us to skate past this as far as possible. A fine example: It was mentioned in a discussion about being under compulsion when we were discussing that matter at the highest level. A health minister, that it would have been pointed out to be contrary to the European Convention of Human Rights, another covenant of which we are part, and therefore need to take a closer look at how this was done. This had been pointed out by the emissary of the Generals. It's exactly the same thing. Instead of trying to create laws that give some exceptions -- only if it's the third Thursday of a month, where there's a full moon, a minister can grant permission. That's what we're always doing. Maybe we can trust the highest. current environmental minister not to abuse this power. What, though, about a future minister who may not have the same respect for the environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. It is not a goal here to allow anyone to pass by or minimize the existing rules. It's not my suggestion. We're meeting up for the comments. That's why I'm standing here, and we're standing here and we're going to take this discussion in the Senate Hall. If they decide that we are not achieving our goal of meeting these requirements, I am convinced that this will be discussed by the Committee. If we were to fail to meet that requirement, we would have to make another circle. Then the second person, or the second one, needs to come back with a bill, it's all in the way. I think it's important that we approach it in that way, whether we like it or not. This is not the simplest case in the world. But in all of this, when it comes to law and order, people try, and we know it so well, Icelanders, because many unexpected things have come up, to have some means, if some things happen that are not visible to man. However, they must not be, so they are being abused to get past the rules. We're in a hurry. I'm not sure that someone doesn't want those things to deal with unexpected situations. But such things are not done for that purpose. A senator referred to this, as well as to why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, that the rules can be avoided, not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u186	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. What I'm trying to point out is that with these laws it is possible to provide temporary permission to work, although environmental assessment has not been obtained. The risk is this, since this can be released both to one year and extended to another year, to prevent irreversible damage to the environment at that time. That's the problem I see. You can break the environment without taking it back, maybe a little more complicated than fish farming, but this is an example that we can start using for other environmental factors, and we just say, "Yes, a minister can issue a temporary warrant. This is what I'm afraid of. That's my hope. The Environment and Transport Committee considered this carefully because we need to let the environment benefit from the doubt in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u187	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct the change in commitment and pollution laws, fish farming laws and environmental assessment laws, provisional sources. It is these temporary measures that are somewhat strange and should ring warning bells because, in the face of nature, we should never have any preliminary rules. It should be clear that nature should always have any doubt. On page 18. 9 on the bill put it word for word, with the permission of the President: ◯Land Protection believes that as planned, it is difficult to see how the foretold changes will respond to what ESAs consider reprehensible. It is clear that there is a violation of EU legislation to provide permission for implementation or activities under environmental assessment laws without a valid environmental assessment. If the motion becomes a law, the licenses of the legislatures will be allowed to be granted temporary permission if environmental assessment is found to be defective. If this is likely to result in increased implementation of the executives, poor work and poor environmental assessments will be provided with confidence that the permission of the Member States will allow them to allow them temporarily without environmental assessment. Once operations are started, people are started and the environment has been irreversibly damaged, the license would be difficult to cancel. Therefore, it is very important to prevent authorization to provide temporary permission without a validated environmental assessment. I'll agree with this concern, I'll just have to say right now. We have to make every alarm call when it comes to nature protection laws and especially when we are talking about sensitive nature. We now know much more about the effects of fish farming on nature, and we see the tremendous impact and destruction it has had, especially on fish stocks. We are, for example. talking about salmon fishing in rivers and since the irreversible environmental effects it has had. As I pointed out in answer to a minister, I've been considering the effects of the fish fire and the salmon lice that are causing enormous damage. But what may be even more disturbing is the toxic substances used to attack salmon lice and cause irreversible effects on nature. They are thought to be one of the main reasons why the shrimping stock is completely collapsed in Norway. Perhaps we should begin to understand the impact of marine farm fire on both the lobster stock, the shrimp stock, and also on crabs, especially on crustaceans, a very fragile organism in this context. Then there is another point that is made clear on page 22. 10 on the bill, with President's permission: ▪ Iceland's Environmental Protection Association Lux lives, and Iceland's Natural Protection Association notes that despite suggesting that the release of the Food Institute will remain based on exceptional circumstances, there is still a risk that the source will be, in fact, a principle rather than an exception. In this regard it should be kept in mind that there is an uncommon loss of license due to lack of environmental assessment. - So there is something that is very rare -- the rest of the case according to the case, a relatively small number of cases will arise that may underlie the source. Therefore, if the application of the source does not become the principle of events that might fall under it, there must be a clearer limit than that given in the bill of what sort of cases it may be. - Natural protection organizations feel that this wording is not decisive enough. Go on says: The application and version of the temporary authorisation will make a significant difference if an assessment of the applicant's plans for these improvements is to be conducted before or after the release of the permit. If the first assessment is made after authorisation and the review of the interim MAH to meet the conditions set by its license, it offers a risk to the world in which, in the case of this, the applicant can post the correct effect of an invalid resection and continue or pollute their occupation without starting to improve the progress of environmental assessments. It's just enough to ring all the alarms, and we should think about and wonder if there's any need to give this temporary permission. If this provisional license is not available, full license is required. There must be a better situation than having a plan B that can make someone slip by. The CDC also, by permission of presidents: ▪ It is not sufficient to determine whether or to what extent such decisions are expelled from the general rules for handling such decisions. A better way to make a clear view of this point is in the text of the law. At that time, the National Protection Organization proposes a change in the wording of verse 15. The bill. Finally, the environmental protection organization describes a stand against the bill that reduces the incentive of fish farmers to work on environmental assessments and thus violates the principle of environmental assessment rules that such an effect is evaluated in advance. We now know more about salmon farming in the sea, and we're supposed to make it our way up to the beach. We should, if we had the knowledge and support of nature, immediately stop the publication of all permits by sea fire until we have found out what the irreversible damage this activity is causing in nature. We, this generation, are obliged to try to bring nature back to future generations in a condition as good as we received it, but I'm afraid it is quite clear that we will not. We've been enormously low on the environment, and unfortunately it always seems to be the capital of the process; the greater the growth, the more the exceptions seem to be, and the more it is weighed against nature. The greater the growth, the greater the tendency to power the natural world is because vegetation is the only thing that makes money and money to the area. We know that as we do today, most of the salmon that go to the sea in Iceland is owned by the Norwegians, so there are in itself some small auras that fall to the places of industry's services. However, we're stuck with pollution, and those who do not seem to be responsible, and especially if we're going to give them some temporary license to do things, we're in a bad place. I also refer to the fact that it has been demonstrated in the United States, where salmon lice were found, that font bugs were severely damaged, with mutations and appearance defects. We have seen fish in the fires of defective appearances and ill condition, and then we see that there are various diseases that afflict them. I say for my part that I wish that we weren't discussing the provisional policy here. Rather, we were simply discussing it and putting it into place so that we were really dealing with it and trying to minimize the harm that fish farming in the sea will cause the world, that we were simply banning it. I think it's the next step, and there's gonna be one of the worst things we've ever done, letting this unregistered fish farms in the ocean. I also understand those who are fighting with their mouths and who are suffocating because there is no seafronts on the sealands, in a fjord where there are no currents. The contamination of such a operation can simply kill all life in the event, just one, two, three. We can't take chances, and we shouldn't. We have a problem with our work, and as a result, it would be best for us to start by saying, "Hey, we don't allow temporary permits. We're gonna clean up now, and we're just gonna have a law to stop this thing. We'll find out how contaminating and bad this is for nature, so we'll take it up to the shore. It has been tried to show that anything that comes from land, food, water, can be used for good works. I think it's the future and it's better, as I say, to do less and to do it better. Another factor is that it's amazing that we Icelanders aren't done that long ago and we're focusing on the pink. There we would be with such an advantage and a much more valuable fish than ever salmon, a much better fish, a much more healthful fish, just better in every way and in a special place. There we could really get involved and show what we are capable of. There's a fire on the land, everything on the land, and we don't have to worry about it, I think we're ruining nature in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Just so you know, we're not here discussing whether a fish farm is allowed or not. It also belongs to another minister. I can say things like that. A senator said, especially about the pink, it's a good fire. But I intend to make sure that the objective of the government is that there is a careful environmental assessment, that is, in general, according to current requirements. Therefore, it is generally assumed that this situation does not preclude permission from the Environmental and Resource Commission due to a faulty environmental assessment. The point of view. A senator who was truly entitled to swerve was the viewpoints presented in the report. That's where it comes out, so I'll witness in it: In view of the above statements in the implementation plans, it is appropriate that the bill assumes that preliminary measures due to assessments of activities should be considered only in exceptional circumstances. In particular, it is required that patients who have received employment or employment licenses should be subject to acceptable treatment conditions, including: the opinion of the Agency on the environmental assessment of the relevant Member State, which then allows to be canceled due to certain limitations. Therefore, it cannot be agreed that it is an incentive to put in inadequate environmental assessments, confident that they will be authorized on temporary basis. With the bill, it is safe to be careful that legislation does not offer out of the EU regulations to end the requirements for improving environmental assessment issues on the temporary period of leave. For public participation, it is noted that the public is expected to have access to temporary permits measures. The general public also has access to the final legislation and, depending on incidents, to improve environmental assessments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u189	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, and I agree completely with him, and I'm comfortable with this in myself. But what's a little strange in this is that we're discussing possible, possible, any small exceptions, but how much is this? I didn't see in numbers how many people were special and how many exceptions were there before because of the charges. Is this common, or is it rare and just completely exceptions? What do you say, one a year, ten a year, 100? I have no idea. I didn't see it in my report. Perhaps a minister can tell you how common this is and what is involved, at least in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u190	A respectable president. As I understand this, and this is now before my time, this is happening because there was a temporary release for a lack of activity against two operators in fish farms. Because it was done, and it was not done with any joy in the heart, it was believed that the damage that would be done if it were not done would be much, that would be irreversible, and that is why men went that way. And so I'll make a long story short then ESA says: "Hey, it doesn't work, it's not according to the book, you can't do it like this. That's why it's here. But if you do. A senator is going to ask the man here exactly about these incidents, I would be very sorry because I don't know them very well. However, it is only possible that humans would not resist the present setting, so ESAs made comments, and that is why this bill is presented. Whatever it is. There was a senator who referred to and more heavily. Congress officials have referred to me, as I understand it, concern the organization because this is a form of a way to avoid applying the rules. But this is certainly not the list, and it is being addressed in the report. But, hey. Councilmen have plenty of time to follow through on this and to hear different viewpoints on the committee. That's the end of the pot. I just hope so, and I'm counting on it. The Senate Committee, if the case is made available to the council, will carefully review this. However, it seems that they have met the viewpoints expressed by these sources, many of which have been quoted today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u191	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yes, this is twice, two matters, and we probably do not know how serious it was and what it was about. I think it'll probably be rolled up and that information will happen when this happens to a committee. I hope, when the bill comes from such a committee, it will be revealed and if it is as a minister says, it is simple and not being weighed in one way or another and making sure it's not overlooked or trying to shorten its own way, it's being to answer the requirements of this lawsuit, it's the best case. It would be wishful, and I sincerely hope it is, and nature will be the one that makes money out of this rather than any neighbors, and everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u192	A respectable president. This is a case in which we are once again privileged to have the government's representative come here in a locked or officially, telling us that black is white, that this is just being fixed and fixed, and meet with what ESA has pointed out, and here it is to preserve and prevent the loss of valuables, but not much of what is really being established. There is a legal warrant for temporary permission without environmental assessment. That's what's being promoted. In short, this will begin with the decision that the Environment and Resource Commission decided in the fall of 2018 that the license and work permit of Förglax and Arctic Sea should be canceled for breeding in the seas in Patrecks'land and the Twelfths. At the same time, the company's request for an extension of the right effect was dismissed. That's the highest. A sea manager, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, responded hastily, went to great lengths and proposed a bill of changes in fish farms which included special permission of Ministers to grant temporary access if a previous employment permit was canceled because of the limitations of the permit, i.e. a leave of absence was canceled. That's the top one. A member of the Independence Party was fully supported by a representative of the left green here at the council. In the spring of 2020, environmental protection groups followed this complaint to ESA, which found that the above access to Ministers was not in accordance with the European Commission's directive to assess the impact that certain government or private projects may have on the environment, i.e. assessment of environmental effects. This is the European Directive and we're following these rules. We're following the rules of not allowing this to happen unless we have a valid environmental assessment. In December of the past year, the ESA published a formal reminder letter in which the viewpoint in the preliminary outcome was correct, that this was not in accordance with the European Directive. Of course, it is the first step in a formal violation of the contract to receive such a preliminary outcome and a formal reminder letter. In this regard, a minister says that he is failing now by legally attaching this evil to law. Of course, they were primarily responding to a permit for fish farming without meeting the requirements for adequate environmental assessment. The objective of this bill is the highest. Environment Minister seems to be trusting the legal warrant, as I have the many shades here tonight, that ESA has made serious comments about. Does this mean that the aim of a fish farm should be greatly reduced by the policy-making principle on the environmental impact of fish farming, resulting in the current regulations and application of it here so that fish farms can actually walk that despite the fact that the environmental assessment has no impact, they have no consequences other than the need for later recovery from such restrictions, they can, in fact, assume that they have their permission and retain their licenses, despite the fact that it has become red layered, that it does not have to fit all the opinion that it is required to be performed by a minister who will always take care of it. Substitution is being permitted, although there is insufficient environmental assessment. As a result, these enterprises, the fish industry, are being reduced to the challenge of environmental assessment. On the contrary, because you will always be granted temporary permission to ensure that some valuable courtyards are not going to go - to prevent irreparable damage to valuables such as the Supreme Court. Minister said. It has been pointed out in the leading of this bill that the legislation will lead to the implementation of recruiters, i.e. The fish farms, in turn, will provide poor work and inadequate environmental assessment, confident that the license companies will grant them temporary permission without first performing a valid environmental assessment. And when things are started and people are involved and they've actually been causing irreversible environmental damage, it's still the process and it's hard to cancel the license because, like the highest level. A minister said, must avoid irreparable damage to valuables. But who's going to think about the value of marine life and life in lakes and rivers around the country? It's just out of the way. Those with the best knowledge of this category say that it is absolutely necessary to prevent this legislation, this teratogenicity, to prevent this provision for granting temporary permission without a validated environmental assessment. I'd be willing to help you try to counter this situation because it's not the right way, Mr. President. We must think of nature first. It's just like whisk. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson said here earlier tonight, a little bit of the same way that was to be done by the health minister's prime for forcedness and forcedness: Since they're pointing out that there's been an illegal operation in the closed mental wards, let's set it up in law, it's no longer illegal. It's a little similar. We're watching the same thing. It is in the law of the Food Agency to shun the decision of the Environment and Resource Commission that the assessment of environmental impacts is being maintained directly to legalize the requirements that enable the Food Agency to overlook. It's actually just saying, it doesn't matter. You'll always get a temporary license. With the best interests of nature, and so with the public and future generations in mind, it would be much closer to putting increasing emphasis on environmental issues, such as evolution is everywhere else. But here again, the government is going to play the youth in the forest. She doesn't want to take out the trash and she's going to have only a chance to cheat on the rules we've made. This, of course, is for all people on earth but primarily for us. We're talking about the life of the ocean around the land and the life of the rivers here. There is a clear violation of EU legislation to provide permission for implementation or activities under environmental assessment without a valid environmental assessment. But here's the highest plan. Environment Minister still making temporary clearances, despite that. I have to ask about 1 1 1. in the bill, because he's been talking a lot about letting the public come in and he can sue and sufficiency and so on, but there's nothing to say about postponing justice. It would be good to know if after a provisional release, the charges of a court order may be delayed. It's a very important thing. Is it so, or does a fish farm get to continue business despite the lack of environmental assessment because it was granted temporary permission by a minister? The assessment of environmental impact has been conducted prior to authorisation in this EU directive. That's the perfect key. Not after, and not that you can somehow get access to your license after you have a temporary license. Of course, the rules for such sequelae undermine the environmental assessment rules. Certainly they're stepping in here, being sneaked in on charges, so the audience's taking place there. But what's the value if there's no environmental assessment? So I don't quite understand why we decided to go that way. I'm not sure that ESA will stamp this document and say, "It's okay. You can't afford to have a proper environmental assessment. I'm afraid we won't get far because it's being given authority to the operator temporarily, despite the fact that environmental assessment is being conducted with a defect. I just don't understand why Iceland's government is acting in that way in 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u193	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Still, I want to correct certain fundamental differences. Businesses need to get environmental assessment. We're in a hurry. On the other hand, this can happen, although it seldom happens, that it is reported and that there has been a number of problems on the environment. This is not to be done in the secretary's office by the environmental assessment. We know that it is a great career that institutions are involved in. Then we cannot rule out any of these works, as well as other human works, to have a fault and something happened. Then, under special circumstances, under strict conditions, and under strict conditions, temporary permission can be given as long as humans meet the environmental assessment. Hv. A senator must have said 50 times that a minister does. The bill goes out that the Minister can't do it, as I went over here. Hv. A senator has repeatedly said that a minister can grant temporary permission, even if that is the case. A senator knows that in the bill it says that there will be a secretary to the EEA. It's simply not right to say that this is going to work out by going past some EEA rules. That certainly is not my suggestion. Temporarily, the so - called constants are soaring. The senator that a Minister can grant temporary permission - that authority is not granted to a minister if this bill is accepted. On the contrary, it takes power from the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u194	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I think he's a little confused. Here, I'm reviewing that a minister is providing a bill for allowing the grant of temporary access, although permission has been canceled due to an inadequate environmental assessment. I'm not familiar with the fact that I said the Minister himself is the permission. However, it was then the highest. Secretary of the sea, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, who went to great lengths and put in motion the bill for changing the law of fish farming, which included special permission of a minister. In this case, I'm criticizing that there should be any basis for granting this temporary permission after permission has been canceled due to inadequate environmental assessment. I suspect the highest. A minister is something to try to turn out of the way government officials are reasonable these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. However, on the basis of this discussion, I'm going to allow myself to repeat what I've said before, with the permission of a president: It is made clear in the bill that provisional sources will only be provided that all adaptations of environmental assessments are necessary to meet the requirements for environmental assessment in accordance with the implementation and strategy requirements. A review of the environmental assessment should be performed at the beginning of the procedure. It will only be provided temporarily in exceptional circumstances, such as to prevent waste of valuables or accidents or for the sake of public interests and urgent financial support is needed. The public's access to the decision-making process is expected as well as the provision of provisional sources for provisional measures from a Minister to the institution, i.e. The EEA and Food Organization, thereby suing the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. I hope, more dignified President, this will clarify the matter, but I can, of course, bring this one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u196	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out this reading lesson at the highest level. Environment Minister. I can't quite tell which show it was. I'm reading my talk from earlier. I'm not talking about the highest. Environment Minister grants this permission. I was quoting what happened in the past in the highest of times. Minister of the sea, Kristján, Þór the son of Júlíusson. Let us be absolutely clear that this is a preliminary publication for fish farming, although environmental assessment is inadequate. That's all it's all about, and it's not the reading skills of the highest. Environment Minister or professional in a twist. We all know that it's the highest. A minister is very good at it, especially when he is ill at heart in the language he is discussing. I just have nothing to do with it to the highest. A minister slowly reads from this bill, which seems to be a minister who knows very little.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u197	Mr. President. I have to admit, it threw me a little bit off to get Minister to read here a full chapter from the bill. But okay. A minister read just the same area as I would like to ask. A senator in. In 1 1. The bill of the "F" is added to ten new causes. c of the law. If we examine this report, we will find that in the 10th case, it is specifically stated that the European Commission will not be acting on the legal basis of a decision. This is not particularly indicated, but it may be the result of the text. That doesn't exactly say it, but, yes, it can be read out of it. This is a big deal because the justification for preparing the preliminary clearance at the time was that unexpected situations had to be dealt with by preliminary legislation. So when we put permanent access to law, it is not to be divided. Then there's nothing unexpected that will activate it, it just exists. However, if the charges do not delay justice, the economic justification used here in 2018 is being implemented to justify the provisional principle. If the charge does not delay justice, the doomed action can be continued and forced against it on the grounds that it has cost so much. This is a key step in the course of time. A senator then calls himself an artist, and rightly to place the wickedness into law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very grateful to have answered the question that I raised to the highest degree. Minister on whether or not to delay a court order because it's key. But the highest. A minister likely did not know this, and instead of just reading the Senate, he went to a reading contest, not a basic school race, but a minister's reading competition. If the defendant doesn't delay justice, the mess will continue. I'm saying dirty stuff because there's some reason we don't accept permission or don't allow it. There's a provisional warrant here, without any assessment of environmental impact, or because it's canceled because there's something wrong with the environmental impact, there's some defect. That's why it's being canceled. And then you can run to and apply for a temporary warrant. They add some form of poetry for the public to get a case that doesn't do anything. What's this for? In fact, the claim is that this is being made to protect it from harm. Such depravity can cause permanent damage to life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u199	Mr. President. The natural key to the natural development of assessments is the fact that assessment of the environment is always based on assessment. I think we on the Environment and Transport Committee only need to discuss what seems to be an adequate environmental assessment because there seems to be a different understanding of this. I would say that adequate environmental assessment is an environmental assessment, which is well designed to make it possible for them to do all the charges and not just that, but it has already been done. In such cases, we might be watching that the environmental assessment has been postponed. So we're reviewing the report from 2018, it was known when the charges were imminent and there was a defect in the environmental assessment that would likely result in the loss of the assessment. These are not examples that we would like to establish into law permanently, as it were. Regarding the other part of this, which is public approach, it is worth remembering that it was reported not only to ESA but also to the Office of the Agos Convention, from which we are still waiting. But we can also refer to the slight shown to them as protecting nature's interests against the strong interests of financial forces by the way this matter was handled. This bill was put in consultations in mid - December, just before Christmas, at regular intervals for two weeks to pass the reviews. Then we just met at the Land Protector's office wasn't stuck on the ◯refrefresh-button, did not know about the case, and couldn't enter a review. It was not just a phone call to the people involved in the case that this bill came out of. [[The president calls.]] You can call 200 partners to give them a bank, but you can't call Land Protection to invite them to protect nature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u200	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I'm gonna keep this answer brief and say, "Why?" A senator said it was a coincidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u201	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct climate change laws. By bill of this, ordering a word order in one of the laws will strengthen the regulations associated with a flight-related emissions directive as well as the proposed decision to be made by the European Commission. With law No. 98/2020 were made a number of changes in climate No. 70/2012 and including added to III. a section on Iceland's commitment to climate change to 2030, which is designed here for a change in diction order to Article 6. b on commitments to land use, changing land use, and forestry. As the law says today, the production of greenhouse gases is being considered wrong. The directive covers the emissions of greenhouse gases and then the recording of a type of land use, which means the uptake of carbon from the atmosphere by means of certain measures. It is suggested that the word "emission" be placed in front of the word "greenhouse gas" and the directive will be as follows: "Glation' and land use, change in land use, and forestry.... A change in regulations has been made in the 27th chapter. a that's in the Bellas. Section A, which deals with monitoring and reporting under the CORSIA System of the International Air Action Agency, but the system's holding the emissions of greenhouse gas in international flight, is therefore more than the current ETS system that is only flying in the EEA. According to CORSIA, certain fliers are obliged to level their excess emissions based on annual emissions data; however, it is lacking at 27. a Permissions requiring notifications of the government to pilots on their social obligations. It is therefore suggested that a minister can recommend in the Regulation on the relativeness of aviators. Finally, the Commission decision (EU) 202/1416 will be implemented and added to 47.g. The law, as well as the law that needs to be added to the letters in II. The Annex of the Law. The decision has to do with the EU's disposal business system. It carries a flight from airports in Britain to airports within the EEA area, excluded from EU emissions trade systems. It is suggested that the new number be added to page 47. As follows: the Commission's decision (EU) 202/1416 of 17 June 2021 concerning the change in Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2003/87/EC to rule out a flight coming out of the UK from the EU target trade system. Also, a new letter has to be added to II. In addition to the law on emissions from flying, as follows: flights from airports in Britain to airports in the European Economic Area (EEC) The annex lists flights that are the exception of the EU's emission-relevant business system. The Icelandic fliers will remain here to report and deliver their emissions from the EEA to Britain in the standard ETS report, but emissions from Britain to EEA will fall under the British ETS system. It's not expected to be a financial impact at the state fund for the bill. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u202	Madam President. It's familiar to change 6. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 35/2021. If this article fails, we have met the wrong order of phrases in double order so that it needs to be corrected, but hopefully we can get the right thing right now. All is three. But I'd like to ask the Minister something. I put here before the Senate's private bill of change of climate law earlier in the winter, and I received a review from the Forest, in fact, the inexpensive content of that bill, of how the Forest wants to alter the definition or word of carbon balance, so that it would be better beyond the incentives to be there for companies and individuals to work on carbon balance, especially by forestry. There was something wrong with me, because I had assumed that such tips would be more for counseling than to be taken to members of the council on a minor matter. I wondered what conversations are going on today after the development of the strategy on these conflicting aspects of climate. How is it that the forestry is more comfortable to look to the council for help with such changes? What conversations have been made between the Ministry of Environment, Energy, and Climate, after the wooding went out of the house? Is that gringo there, or is he out yet? It would be very bad if the integration of climate was going to the dogs, just by this simple change of means.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The short answer is that there is no change in response, except for such practitional things, we can say, to business, and to such. Of course, what we're doing right now will take some time, but it's a big thing: we're getting close to this climate, so we have to cooperate with each other, and there are not many people involved. It doesn't matter whether any relevant institutions are under the Ministry or not, I don't talk about the job life that natural things hear nothing under the Ministry, or whether any other people involved in the case -- I'm not going to tell everyone but pretty much everybody - hear the Ministry or not. It's also very important, especially when it comes to legislation, I'm not talking about taking care of our international interests, because we have to do it there, that all the indications necessary to come along, to care for our interests, and to make sure that we do this as well as possible, make it all the way. I have not heard that there is any problem with communicating with the Ministry or its employees. When we discuss climate issues, we are in a hurry. A senator and everyone else can point to a number of institutions directly involved in the matter and a number of other people who do not hear directly under the Ministry and will never hear directly of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u204	Madam President. I'm pointing to this review because it shows black and white that there's something wrong with communication, so I'm going to check on the Ministry to find out what seats because the wood industry chooses to come to the council in a whole non-communicative matter, after not having received its release in a conversation with the Ministry. It's not just some local institution, it's a key ingredient in the future carbon binding, the forest industry. But as for the future, I'd like to ask the minister why this opportunity is not new when it is recommended for the bill for a change in climate law to bind in the laws of some sharper, new action on climate. They are not in this bill, and they are not in the Minister's Constitution for the current legislature. I would have, for example. To see legalization of the government's purpose to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It's not just me who would've wanted it. It's all the experts who would've been talking about it. Then you can again point to the bill I presented earlier, where the reviews are all in one way, people think, experts, the watch to 2030 is simply necessary to deal with the way that the government has established in 1940. I just want to hear from the Minister when we can expect, if we can't get it through this bill, real ambitional bills from the government on climate operations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u205	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't know why. A senator concludes that I am speaking down the forestry that I am not doing at all when I say that it will not change anything even if it is not directly under the Ministry. Of course, it plays a very important role, as well as other institutions. I have not thought of it: I am the last man, to speak down the forest in the land. I know those matters very well, and for decades I have personally experienced them. Whatever it is. A senator refers to a new prime report on climate matters, and I have two basics directly related to climate, which I may be able to speak for later. But to set more ambitious goals - they are very ambitious now - we need to start with, in my opinion, to build on the fact that we can keep them. We will be judged, not by what we talk about, but by what we do. There is no doubt that the project is very much ahead of us when it comes to climate. It's just big and we're in a hurry. It is our mission to ensure that we take action to achieve the ambitious goals that we have already set for ourselves, for that will not happen on our own, so we can be sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u206	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here for a short time and to reiterate something that I discussed earlier tonight when another minister was being discussed. It is that we seem to be spending a lot of time fixing the law and correcting it because texts and articles and other things are not working too well. Then I reiterate what I suggested earlier tonight, which was that when we receive bills like this, which usually begin in a way that some articles speak in some way and some articles are added firmly, we get to see what the end of the law would look like because it is often difficult to figure out what is being changed. I also cut by one of the highest ministers, perhaps we could learn. I noticed that it's adding an equation duty on a flight which is very good and clearly being put in by one of the Bgrets that way. In chapter 6 of this report, it is said that this bill is not expected to affect the management of a government fund. I'd like to know if a minister has any idea whether this equation will have a major impact on the cost of flight to the public. I don't know if a minister will answer that question or would like to communicate it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u207	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He approached me with one question. Is it going to come straight down on those who fly? I think, in general, that this system is all about it, that this is something that people need to take into account and are taking into account, all airlines, whether they are Icelandic or anywhere else, and aircraft producers are taking into account that they have to find other solutions. Then I'm referring to the fact that the aircraft fuel that is currently being used by men has to be replaced. It's not ready and it's a race for time. Still, this is a very fast development. It's really two kinds. On the one hand, we're talking about the long-term flight, since I've never heard anyone say anything other than you have to use electronic fuel, and then there's a shortcut where electronics are used. The first power engine is back in the country. Because there are many challenges in this major case, it makes you happy to see that there are plans for that in the immediate future, we're talking about 2026 or at any point in that period, the mass production of an electric aircraft, 19 seats, according to a plan that will be 653/480% lower in circulation. These planes, if this works, should be able to fly every airport in Iceland. So you are hoping that it will be the same as with the electric cars, that although it is even more expensive, the price to go down is lower and the cost of operating is lower. It should be totally unchanged to translate, at least in the national airport, a lower price to consumers and airlines, and possibly become a revolution or, at least, a major change in public transport by flight. But the rest is rapidly developing, and people are going to go there because these things are happening and they are going to come to the finish line in this regard. [[The president calls.]] If it doesn't work, then, of course, it will raise the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u208	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, we are truly living in a time where much is changing and what is most interesting to see changes in is how electricity is stored, i.e. The battery technology, if we use Icelandic here, is developing. There have been quite a number of changes just in recent years and even in recent months that cause even on the longer ways, if technology works as research is being done, we can start to look to possible use. So this is an interesting time. But, yeah, like the highest. A minister points out the price of going somewhere, and until we have this, it is likely to hit the public. And also in the state because the state is also flying employees and others out, so that perhaps there are some effects on government funds, especially if ministers and others are much abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u209	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that we don't know how these matters will develop. All you know is that those who are predicting things right now are not going to be quite right. Hv. A senator points out that technology could possibly become a battery. I thought that was it. A senator was going to point to the very fact that today there has just been a development on aluminium batteries and that an Icelandic company, or innovation, is creating revolutionary ideas and exports. I love to see it, and I know it. A senator knows the environment very well that when we put all this energy and money into this green revolution, you see a lot of ideas and not just ideas but a lot of solutions coming in a very short time. But we still have a very long way to go. Then it is true that when it comes to traveling, the State is certainly doing so. The only good thing, or one of the few good things that came out of Covid, was that we used telecommunications more and I hope we don't stop it and trust that it won't happen. But something has to be done. True, I've done nothing exactly because after I took my new office, I was rather tired of airplanes and airports and I've tried to shun it as much as possible but will not quite escape it. But the dog is right. A senator that I cannot any more than anyone else predicted exactly how these matters will develop. This is just what I think most people are on, but I think it can be right too. A senator, though I'm not planning on predicting such a thing, that these planes that fly farther, it can be more than just that they'll fly on something other than fuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u210	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister to the counter and yes, there's a lot of evolution. As I have mentioned before, here on the platform and at the highest. Minister, Iceland is an ideal country to be developing a climate-related technology. You see, there is one thing that sometimes goes forgotten, and it's just having an airplane that can fly on electricity or electrical fuel, another way you make this fuel, or you put electricity on your own batteries. We have green energy, which is special because it often forgets in all of this that if you're on an electric vehicle, you may be loading it with coal - based electricity. [[Taken out on: right.]] We need to think about it. But I say again, the highest. Ministers to collaborate with their colleagues on making Iceland the center of knowledge and innovation in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u211	Madam President. They're very ambitious, they said the highest. Minister here for the government's objective on climate issues, they're very ambitious. All we have to do now is take action. This is the answer we always get when we're losing the government on binding commitments to climate. There are always such ambitious goals that they need not be legalized. There's always such ambitious goals that you don't have to show any future policy in a five-year financial program because it's gonna come up with a really fancy plan some other time. That's why, Madam President, I would have liked to see in this bill even if it were only to validate my own goal of the state of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter by 55% in the 2030's, even though it is too small. This is in line with the joint objectives of the European Union and the EU on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions which was judged insufficient at the Glasgow climate conference of all people. There was no state that gave good plans there. We will be judged by action, but our actions depend on the goals we set, and we set goals in the law. It is one of the places where we set goals. That is why I have always found it difficult to observe this government vehement in order to set the 2030's for setting goals before the year 2040. There was another message that governments were sent home from Glasgow: The ambitious goals for the year 2040 are useless. They look much better, they calculate to a greater degree of emissions than to achieve them in the year 2030. Something needs to be achieved in 2025 C.E., and something needs to be achieved in 2023 C.E. We made it all the way to 2040 by setting goals along the way. That's why it's not enough to bring in small bills that cover the market parts, as we'll discuss later tonight, the bill of the Supreme Court. Ministers on increased subsidies in thermal pumps and the other bill, which can now hardly be called a climate bill, which is about the increased potential for people to produce electricity and make money. In this climate bill, however, we should have seen some real goals, some big picture. If Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government had a very ambitious goal, it would not be a burden to them. Rather, it would be black and white to be accepted as a law from the Council. I think, Madam President, the reason why we can't set these goals is because we're waiting. They are waiting for what comes out of the major consultation in the European Union to see how inexpensive it will be to escape legal objectives here. But it's a bit ambitious because although the European Union is the largest individual member of the international field that is doing an excellent part of climate, it's not doing enough. When it takes two steps forward, it is also to take steps backwards. Thus let us not forget that the European Commission's joint objective of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 was driven down by the Commission, by the Council of Ministers, from 60% proposed by the European Parliament. Those 60% weren't even ambitious enough. What experts, environmental groups, and green political groups in Europe were fighting for 2019, 2020, was 65%. What should over Europe be a common objective about 65% of emissions by 2030 was pre-approached to 55% of the European bison, and the government is waiting to see the small share it needs to take from it. In the meantime, nothing can be added to a law that could go further. Of course, this should be the opposite. In Iceland, the goals should be as ambitious as Iceland can achieve. But it's not a good idea for Iceland to lead the bus into these matters. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir sits on the wagon, leaving others here. The European Union is currently reviewing the ETS system, the disposal business system. Part of this bill is about the ETS system. It may be nice to mention in this room what interests are involved because they are familiar and because at the time of their release in Iceland nothing too beautiful. At the Kyoto Summit, Iceland joined those who were speaking down operations on climate. Iceland was there and said: "Here we have energy that we're ready to sell at subsidiary, and we're willing not to get too strict environmental conditions into it, or as it was called in an English press brochure, by permission of President Lowest Energy Prices, and there we spoke of an environnal misdeed. This booklet was sent out through all kerosene websites to attract companies to the country that could use the inexpensive electricity derived from Krumbur chicken activation. Kyoto agreed that the increase in Iceland's emissions due to this major insanity would not be counted, taken out of parentheses when it was time to compare us with other countries. Fortunately, Iceland has disappeared from this path, and perhaps no longer is reaching out to be not just the kiss or the train but the anti-environmentist in the field. The ETS system is colored by the factor that existed around the turn of the century in which Europe was deeply concerned that a certain industry would be vaporized if set before its door for pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, in close collaboration with the interests of the world, it was decided to create a so - called carbon leak list. Industrial companies were identified as being considered at risk of disappearing to other countries with their production rather than shoulder the European joint responsibility to reduce emissions. The Icelandic aluminium is in these carbon leak lists and therefore received very much free release from the ETS system and therefore have not had to deal with it until the ETS system began to bite them only about two years ago. The information given to these companies is slowly and bites. The battle in Brussels is now speeding up the speed of free disposal because the century is very different. Just as all the public and all political people are supposed to have figured it out, most of them have come to realize that these companies are to be under the same responsibility and are to be completely able to shoulder the collective responsibility of all of us to reach our goal of being viable on earth for the future. In fact, the enterprises responsible for most of the emissions have an increased responsibility beyond, e.g. The sheep's black population, where each individual is responsible for a very small amount of emissions compared to the large local polluter industry. But if this doesn't work, let's say that EU contracts for hard ETS don't work, and anyway, we still have to work better with the ETS system and do it like that. More beneficial than what income the state has of this release auction. It is not until the last few years that each ton of carbon dioxide within the ETS system began to achieve something, but there will be a rapid rise in pace over the next few years and a new source of emissions is becoming a major source of revenue for Europe's state. Based on the European Union report as it was written, the income of the Icelandic state between 2019, 2020, and 2021 has been some of the around 10 billion dollars, of the share of the state as an auction for release. 10 billion during this three - year period are going far in terms of a third of the government's donations to climate. So the government that boasts of having a very ambitious climate goal may have to follow the story that many of them were so cheap that they were paid with them. Brussels has received billions of dollars to cover the operations as planned. However, this is to be done in a clear way so that income is used directly in climate action so that the public and businesses can see the fruitage of their hard work, which is apparently a disgrace in the liberal manual but is clearly what is needed for people to experience justice in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u212	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's speech. Knowingly, though, not all of us mates agree on all aspects of climate and other factors, but so on. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is very well read in these cases, although the political approach may be different from the memory. But what I've been really worried about in this ETS system everything and, like others, we now know that the misunderstanding is quite high in this release process, that we are working on a very small part of the problem with certain measures that are burdensome but are intended to achieve certain objectives. If we set this in line with the global plastic problem, it is a big problem to come to anywhere else than where the operation takes place. Great results in North America and Europe in particular are relatively small in the overall picture. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is his position on how these systems could be better connected to the areas where there is little vision. All we can see is that an electrical vehicle and an electrical vehicle are the same thing depending on whether the power car is powered by renewable energy in Iceland or powered by electricity produced from coal in a state of such electricity production. In what way? A senator will become some kind of consistent global approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u213	Madam President. Yes, I agree that many of the measures we take in this country are only working on a small part of the problem. But this is also because we have not yet entered the fundamental system changes, in Iceland or on a global scale, necessary. So we'll take examples of the electrical vehicle, and then energy exchange in transport is important and necessary, and we need to take steps here and today. But in the long run, we need to build a community where we need fewer cars. A car not only pollutes from the fuel it's being run on but it's all the manufacturing process, and it's metals and all kinds of materials buried in the ground to produce the car. He drives on rubber beds that go up into the closer environment and is on a flottox that always needs to increase the extent of the number of cars in the streets. But as a community and we as the world, we are not far along in the cooling way how to maintain the quality and survival of the world we are getting used to without at the same time overstepping the earth's common resources. At the same time, we need to lift to prosperity the lands that have not been given the same weight as ours. It's a real challenge, how we reach them. All we have to do is put money in it. That may be the simple answer. But it stood in the cow of the Glasgow Climate Conference, to get the rich countries to admit their increased responsibility beyond the poor countries, both to solve the problem and to help the poor countries to be a part of the solution, but not always to those who have to bear somehow the blame for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u214	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I don't think in many ways today is that much different. Of course, everyone is confronted, and it is not difficult to figure out where the results will be achieved in each case as fast as possible. Because the plastic has been discussed here, the cost of operations is very different in less developed areas than in the first world, where the focus is most important to that group. The funds and costs in the Western world in the less developed regions would no doubt be very effective. Like what? In the end, a senator mentioned this as likely as a matter of asking whether more money is needed. I believe that it occurs primarily by investing in research and development resulting in solutions that eventually make renewable energy cost-efficient, in English, by permission of presidents, ◯cost Efficit, compared to fossil fuels. I think the focus for the past few years has been too much on solutions in close to the environment instead of watching this globally and saying, first of all, where can we get the most results for each dollar or every dollar or euro? And then, how much research and development can we put into practice in our locality? [[The president calls.]] I don't have an additional question, but I have a subtle suspicion. A senator has more to offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u215	Madam President. I might get to start with this parallel with the plastic. The problem with plastics as garbage is too much plastic. We need to find some ways to change the production systems, to change the pattern of consumption so that smaller plastics will be used for e.g. packaging or, if we take the example we've been considering in this country, putting responsibility on major plastic users so that the large productions will not be able to get away with the least recycling tools that are damaged by them. There's probably one of the biggest plastic dumps in Iceland, and it's somehow out of the system. It is always possible to focus on where to put the most focus. We're going to have to have a lot of luck just to have a focus in the world, and I agree that Iceland may not make that much of it, Iceland will never save the world. But if we're always looking at Iceland as a share of the world then we can just wrap up and leave because we're always small in all context. But just when it comes to research and development, Iceland can do things that will be effective outside the landstones on a scale that is totally offline with Iceland's size. And then we can also act like a role model because, for example, if Iceland, e.g. This is closer to the transition, achieving the high standard of living we have here in the United States, despite changing how we get our relationship with nature, we can get larger countries with us that can point out to Iceland and say: Iceland could do this, now let's just pick it up and follow them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u216	Madam President. I just want to talk about climate and the environment on a general basis because I know that it's the highest. A minister continues to be a member of the seminary and burns for success in areas where the policy has been established in the past. I've been worried that the focus, the emphasis, is high, that we're putting too much energy on these climate and environments in general, which are very modest because we've done quite well, especially when it comes to renewable energy and emissions so far. Let's watch some air. We're fighting each other, me and you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, agreed that Iceland will never become a major player in the world with national statistics, but the ratio of ◯per capita, as it is called in English, emissions, or disposal statistics per person, is quite high in this country compared to the formation of neighboring nations or other developed states. Of course, much of this is because of the geographic nature of the land. We're an island, and I don't think anybody really means that we're subtracting to make a lot of flying to and from the country, whether it's freight transduction, Šcargo, or migration. Me and the Icelanders have a real need to get to and out of the country, whether for a time to get on better weather, to study, to visit relatives, or whatever it may be. Then, as we all know, one of the main features of the Icelandic economy is tourism. Though things have gone wrong for two years, I think everyone hopes that this situation will change rapidly. All of this, of course, is based on good transport and flight, and there are also huge shipping transports, and from the whole of the country's population, from the amount of exporters we are, and from where we are importing from here and there, though I'm like others, that we try to produce as much of what we need at home. But I was surprised only during the general debate how deep the willingness to increase energy production here at home in the environmental way we know, and then there is another part of the world's hot water cycle. If we stick to the hydropower and the aquifers, we'll have a tremendous amount of money that is of little controversy in the context of the objects. Of course, no matter what the activation option is, there will always be a fight for each of them. But I think we should welcome the privileged position, let me say, which we are in as a nation, to have yet to thwart a vast number of good things in the water and in the earth, and with all the opportunities that might become available in energy parks and in the case of a groundkeeper in particular. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We should just say, "We're going to add, and it's gonna be a great deal of cheer. ' Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has already concluded that we should look for ways to reduce the amount of travel, the number of travel travel, the number of cars on the streets, and so forth, I believe that this approach is probably not practical unless there is some mutation in transport and so forth, whatever the future may hold on to them, and the future does not have to be very distant. But this is only done on the basis of research and development. Just as with the induction of electrical vehicles in recent years, it's natural to act primarily on the basis of trends abroad in large companies, giant companies we know, who are continuing to develop these solutions, such tiny fine tunings and adaptations in the world, there are no fundamental changes to these materials, I think. So I think that as a nation, we need to feed what we really are best at, which is this energy force we know so well on the basis of the hydropower workers and the geothermals, since it is something that the last UN climate Commission report told us on the more than 4,000 pages that were taken together. If there's any obligation that that that report put us on our shoulders in my opinion, it's to increase electricity production in Iceland by environmentally relevant means. I believe that this aim should be achieved by trying to use as much energy as we can of the energy available to various productions at home, whether in industrial products or agriculture, or whatever it may be, at the same time as we protect the position we have, that Icelandic homes and companies will receive a cost of electrical energy, because enough is the competitiveness of business and home because of the cost of transport and travel. I think that's what's going to have to happen in these areas. The time will come when, of course, things have been very difficult for a long time, and they are a subject of a frame plan. There are three ministers, if not four, but at least three ministers, who at some point were the Ministers of all the classes of Iceland's Government now, first Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, former Environment Minister of the Agency, then the Ingi Guðbrandsson, the environment minister for the left movement, and now the highest. Environment, energy and climate minister, Guðður Þór Þórðarson, for the Independence Party. If my memory doesn't betray me, I think it's the time of the day. Environment Minister Björt Ólafsdóttir has put in the frame plan without ever having recommended it. I can see why. paritaprevir Jónsson Ingi Jonsson's in the hall, so I think it's the right kind of luxury. Four tops. In other words, environmental ministers have presented the same matter materially, and we are still on apace. The matter cannot go forward, and there are some ideas of expanding the waiting party, at any rate, in terms of proportion, from what the proposal assumes, and all of this somehow turns to killing the case. It must be said that in the government community -- that the Independence Party, the Supreme Court. The minister of the environment of the Guðre Þórðarson, a minister of the Independence Party, presents a case as ministers of the two groups by which the Independence Party operates, in effect, has provided at previous levels - that some forces are on the basis of the governments to complete the case as it happens, of course, it is not a very encouraging position to observe when a fixed country is needed for the bodies of the people who need energy and need the economy, the businesses of the country, and opportunities that shout at us from all sides. Now, due to a limited period of time, I am not going to get involved in a problem involving the spread of electricity and the damage it really causes that I think it might pay the entire postal cost of a short time that is involved in bringing the public system to a critical state. But once again, I think they've caused us trouble recently in connection with the climate. The comparison of which is worse is known, if we look, for example. on greenhouse gas emissions, that 500,000 tons of aluminium are operating in Iceland or China. Even Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. A senator's left greens during his last term, which is quite well read in these studies, agreed with me on the conference discussion that it would, of course, be better for the environment on a global scale than for such a business in Iceland than in China where it was driven by coal burns. But as a matter of Ari, there was no reason. Of course, not taking the stand that a new plant should be built, and I was not suggesting it. But in this light, I feel, and that's what I came along in answer to why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson earlier, this focus was extremely harsh and high when it's not calculated as a whole, total release. Back to the car where we compare the electrical vehicle, the Tesseract, which drives 100% renewable electricity in Iceland, compared with coal - produced in China. As long as we don't get into the whole thing and globally, I think the holes will be deep, and people will be trapped on either side to say they stand on the issue and on the side of those issues. Although it's going a little, not much, outside the subject of this bill, I want it to be directed to the highest level. A minister is looking for ways to direct this discussion further into this global discussion on that basis so that somehow we can get ahead. The fact is, I think there will be very little evolution in these subjects -- yes, evolution will be very slow, but it will be much slower if it is mainly to be successful with regulations and bans and punishments instead of positive motivation and emphasis on research and evolution. Thus progress will be achieved, progress will be achieved by a more efficient, environmental-friendly energy source becoming more practical, money-efficient, than fossil fuels. As long as the focus isn't on it, I think it's going to be a bit tough and not always perfunctory, from both sides definitely. But if we're just looking at a narrow world, I don't think there's a real will to reduce transportation, either on the roads of the country or from the country, whether it's transport or freight. I think it's vital to us from the land's state of life and other factors that will not be disfellowshipped from the lives of Icelanders who have been built up for decades. I don't think that's what it's willing to do with more of the population. I think all Icelanders are on the ground of nature protection, and they want to do well, and they want the best for the environment. But, like the fishing grounds and other factors, we need to find some balance where we can live with nature in harmony, new it, whether it is for energy, food production, natural inspection, tourism, or what it may be, but we need to find this balance because we use what is not beyond what is acceptable but are not trapped in trying years and decades to make a simple decision that has been based on experts such as completing the 3rd-to-the-day strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk that was interesting to listen to, and he pointed to me in it. I also listened to a talk. paritaprevir Andrés the son of Ingi Jónsson, who spoke on the cross, met together at a particular location, which was very interesting. But first of all, I'd like to say that it's nothing simple. Hv. A senator referred to travel services. Now the natural nature of this country is just pure and smart, even though it was not for anything else, not because of our own quality of life. I am so fortunate that I have had the pleasure of the unsurpassed world all my life, and I will see that, if I can, the generations to come enjoy them also. Even if the tourists don't all go there, it's important to me that they know about them and that they need nothing more than to go to the edge of this unscrupulous region to feel it's important. What we've done well is renewed energy, and if everyone did what we did, it wouldn't be a problem for us. We are not doing well in garbage, nor are we able to bear that we are few, and we have a long way to go when it comes to the economy. We need to do all of this if we are going to reach climate targets, whether it's saving energy or improving the transport system. Of course, we need green energy and when we do. A senator speaks of transportation, instead of using green energy, all the nations are trying to extract gasoline, diesel, coal, and gas. Well, that's what's going on. However, there is evidence that this is a balance art. Everyone has to lie down on one hand to get this thing, and this elephant has to be eaten in small pieces and divided if we are to reach these goals. If we are not going to do this, we are also saying that we are going to impair the competitiveness of the Icelandic nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u218	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister the answer, and I agree that the matter is complicated. As far as the wilderness is concerned, I just agree with that, in which there is an enormous amount of value. But we are there today, e.g. If we look at a map that has been drawn together and marked by what effect peacemakers have on energy efficiency potential around the country have, the message they draw up is not likely to increase optimism, not at least my optimism, that we here are able to increase green energy production. In the garbage business, I agree with the highest. Every year, a minister and we in the Central Party have been introduced to council 2017, or perhaps it wasn't until 2018 that was the first served, passed a pact proposal in these areas, where we put the groundwork. to examine the prerequisite for high-tech garbage dumps. It's coming into what you're talking about. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned earlier in connection with the plastic. We need to find ways to make good use of it and to transform it into other forms of energy, which, of course, is just part of the cycle system as we know it and the important goals it is going to achieve. But we're somehow a little trapped in banning plastic bags and pushing people into paper bags, and people have to buy an extra closet to keep all the loads they buy on one shopping trip after another. We are only wrong about these factors. V.E.G. A minister says that all nations are trying to push out fossil fuels in transport, and it is obvious that they are. But I think it's something that will happen at the rate controlled by the foreign producers. Our input into it will be possible for some sort of research and development work. I don't think we're going to be getting any faster on that than the best one anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] It's only limited by the results the producers of these devices are achieving, except at the highest level. A minister is talking about us starting car and airplane production, which, of course, would be interesting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u219	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We'll never be able to avoid handling the garbage and the economy without sorting. We're just a long way behind the rest of us. Unfortunately, you just have to do it yourself. Everyone has to. I didn't mention a building, but there's one thing we don't have our eyes on, e.g. Just with the new General Building. When it comes to positive motivation, it is what we have been using and research and development, the key to this. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke about the income from this, and I believe that they should be used for research and development because that's the way it works. Hv. A senator pointed out that I should talk about this whole thing, and that's what we're doing. Of course, the challenge is to get everyone to the table, and that is what humans are working on because they need to build incentives, real motivations, so that all nations of the world really do this, and some people, indeed, need to be helped. The development team we're in to aim for, and it's aimed at, and it's my focus as a foreign minister, that it's done with the climate in the foreground. This is everyone's problem. If we fight indefinitely and do not get together, the nations of the world, we will just sink together because no matter what we think, measurements show that this can be nothing but man - made, the global warming that is now. But the first electric plane is in the country. It is expected that within a very few years, in 2026, 19 of the world's high - speed aircraft will be flying at all airports in Iceland, 65970 percent less expensive. All the major airlines and flight producers are aimed at renewable fuels. [[The president calls.]] Maersk has brought her first cargo ship to electronic fuel. [[The president calls.]] Are we going to join in or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u220	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I think the highest. Minister is wrong with me. That's exactly what I'm saying. We're supposed to take these things like electricization or whether they're electric winters or whatever the solution is on the air. I took it during the last term of the initiative that an environmental and transport committee will take up a special matter that was involved in the electricalisation of flights and the current highest level. Minister, please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson gave a synonym proposal on behalf of the committee to show that we were especially looking for an electricalization of flights. So I'm very aware of this and these things are, fortunately, going very fast but they happen at a speed that we may not have the control over. That's my point. We're supposed to let this happen, as if electricization of the truck fleet and so forth, run their course and encourage it. But I think our emphasis would be more useful if we were to direct them elsewhere. For the electricisation of the truck fleet, for example, it is. Much more important than our willingness to increase the number of electrical vehicles received from manufacturers. The number depends only on what the agency receives. So, of course... [[Up front.]] Yeah, I'm aware of all these numbers. But then there's this kind of weird decision taken, like we're doing a budget payment in December where the next two - wheeled trucks are pulled out, and that's a decision that I think is actually going to go against the target to the highest level. Minister speaks for and makes sense. So I allow myself to use the overused wording that there are times when the sounds and images in these topics do not match. [[The president calls.]] Of course, everyone's aim is to do their best, but my point is that we should try to put the energy and emphasis on what produces the most results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u221	Madam President. I heard why. A senator has learned from a report by the United Nations Climate Committee that Iceland should increase energy production. This shows how reading skills can be different because what I read from the report was clear that they need a mutation. I think the public is ready for a social mutation because it means not only that we work against climate change but that it will be able to see to it that the new green society will be more just and better for all of us. Speaking of sacrifices in order to achieve these goals, there is nothing to be said here but what we work as a community by reaching them, not just by avoiding disasters that we would otherwise face as a world but only to become a better society. There's gonna be a mutation in energy production all over the world. It is something that we do not have to deal with with with our water supply. Industry has to be reduced worldwide. They've got an aluminium in Iceland, just like the countries in China, factories that need to be taken care of. We cannot handle the problem between countries. Rather, we need to solve it everywhere. Yet, it is true, as it were. A senator says there's a difference between countries. Take it, for example. The electric cars. Now it's fashion that they grow and grow. All of a sudden, we have big trucks walking before electricity, and if a car is driven by electricity produced by coal, it releases for every mile that it drives far more than just an ordinary fuel truck. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just about how we appreciate the results, to measure the effectiveness of the actions we take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u222	President wants less of it. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u223	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson here says that this is all about the efficiency of the decisions and measures, that we must somehow reach, those on either side of this discussion are deeply grieved. I think the way to that end is to see this as a global problem. There's a known vocabulary, with the permission of the President, a 'Thkk globally, a cat locally, something like that. Think globally and behave toward the environment, to a very poor degree. I think if we succeed in moving a talk on the climate issue into a global context, where we try to highlight the world-wide factors, there's a lot of work to be done. This is where the studios were named. It is likely that no one in the world is made environmentally, more than in Iceland. You can then disagree about how to produce as much of it as you do all of it, but I think you can say that it's an environmentally friendly wing more than it is in this country. In a world market, it doesn't seem to me that this is worth anything that matters, e.g. when the big buyers like the car producers decide whether to buy a supply of the year from one place or another, whether the force has been manufactured by renewable, green energy or by coal burns. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a problem we should be reasoning and working on, and this is gonna be a huge opportunity for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u224	Madam President. That's the end of it. A senator's case on a point I think we can agree on. The cost of goods needs to reflect how green it really is. Those who produce green products need to be rewarded for this by getting competitive examples, and the green product needs a competitive reserve. Until we're there, the goeses are always getting a head start on being wasted. This needs to go back. This is a global mutation that we need to penetrate, for example, on a global scale. can be found in some way reflecting the value of an eco-re product, not just its pure value in dollars, but how close the environment in production has been tested to provide an integrated economic incentive for producers to greener production and thus to major buyers and other consumers to select the green. Then it is this interest evaluation, evaluating the most effective measures. Then we are back to what is missing from the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It has not been evaluated, with proposals for adaptation, rarely in climate change, or in subsidies, or some economic measures to achieve climate targets, how many tons of emissions will be met. [[The president calls.]] Of course, these are the numbers that we would need to have in our hands and would be something that would have to be passed on a climate bill as we have here today, but unfortunately it's not there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u225	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson answers. To begin with what happened. The senator concluded that there is no assessment of the emissions of the bills, and I've been complaining a great deal since I entered a council that a small job is put in order to assess the cost and income of bills. As long as we haven't handled it properly, I'm afraid that the rest is quite far in the future, although I do not want to resist that idea, there is no reason to do so. But, hey. A senator entered another point, that the waste must not be given a competitive shot out of the mess in the sense of obtaining a more economic product than the one who is successful in nature. Is that not the correct understanding of the main point? I can agree with this. But the system isn't what it is. We are in a position to sell persistent letters that are specifically designed for those who buy energy that is not environmentally friendly in production to be demeaning, so to speak, by buying persistent letters from the manufacturer, such as the manufacturer. Nationalization at home. This is a message that must confuse the market. Let's just see the big German producers. They are very environmentally and socially aware of advertising and some relief agreements here and there, but they do nothing by stressing that the force is produced from environmental energy, if they can get it at a better price than anywhere else. Again it does not completely match the sound and image in these materials, and in the end it is just the client who makes the decision on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u226	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the house - to - house subsidies laws. The main objective of the bill is to provide an improved support system because of environmental energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency in house warming for those who heat their houses with electricity. The bill is produced in the Environment, Energy and Climate Organization in cooperation with Power Institute. Plans for the legal structure and the premise that a bill was introduced publicly by the government's consultations. In the discussion section of this article, there are reports and comments on how to deal with them. The current support systems for environmental energy sources and improved domestic energy efficiency have been complex and unpredictable. Users who cannot use geothermals for heating heat can reach their homes with electricity. Electrical heating is considerably more expensive than geothermal heating. To balance housing conditions, the State pays off the distribution and transport costs of electricity for housing homes. The cost of house warming is considerable, however, as the state fully subsidies and transport costs of electricity to house heating in users are not more than defined by the maximum number of kilograms per user. Thus, the reduction in house - to - house expenses is a common interest in the state and in the use of subsidies. Those users who are involved in sub-heating and wanting to install environmentally-friendly energy sources have the option to apply for energy sources to the Power Agency, which includes a pre-reached subsidies, which take into account the average use of relevant property and the savings it provides or is expected to provide. In particular, heat pumps are a environmentally stable solution that improves energy efficiency and can significantly reduce both the user's electrical heating costs and the government's subsidies. For example, upsight equipment can also drop solar batteries, windmills, and heat - control devices. The advantage of both user and state from environmental energy sources is undisputed. For users, such equipment results in lower electricity consumption with a related reduction in cost. This reduces the government's counterproduction due to reduced electricity consumption. At the same time, such equipment often generates more energy into the system, but it is evident that electricity needs to be released for needed energy exchanges in the years to come. This bill puts in place an amendment of the European Commission on the basis of environmentally-friendly energy sources. The current programme includes using a user who wishes to adopt environmentally-friendly energy sources and/or to engage in activities that result in improved energy efficiency at house heating, can apply for energy concentrations to the Power Institute, which account for eight years of estimated subsidies that are proportional to energy saving related to environmental energy supply and/or measures leading to improved energy efficiency in house warming. This is the basis of the user's budget on its own energy savings and at the same time reduces the subsidies of the user. The bill suggests that the amount of energy spent at half the cost of buying equipment will lead to environmental energy sources and/or improved domestic energy efficiency. In this way, the amount will depend on the cost of system purchase rather than on the estimated savings of users themselves. The change will not reduce the subsidies factor and the risk of the user will thus be minimal. Is this thought to be a simpler, more reasonable arrangement? Experience has shown that high levels of the current system and its own risks for sponsors are powered by users who need to estimate energy saving and then give up on this basis the percentage of subsidies against monosidies. More simple and fairer, it is estimated that the right to monopolize is totally aimed at the proportion of costs used by the user to buy equipment that leads to environmental energy generation. A more simple and more reasonable system is believed to contribute to the increased use of heat plants and other instruments that lead to environmental energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency in house - to - house heating, with the benefit for consumers, states, the electricity system and energy exchange. The country may be estimated to be in the range of 600,650 gigavats, some 320 gigawatt hours, of which 225 gigavats are due to direct heating. The use of thermal pumps and other energy - sparing devices would account for the energy institution's release of up to 110 gigawatts for other uses, equivalent to the electricity use of 50,000 electric cars. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject, and I suggest that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u227	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I think this case is all improving so quickly. The minister listed a number of advantages that might be considered; thermal pumps, solar batteries, etc. I couldn't find it in a bullet train while I was at the top. A minister recommended the case, but are there restrictions on what solutions are under this subsidies? If available, are they designed on the basis of emissions, or who are the parameters that limit this solution if there are any? In this context, I would like to mention that recently in the news of energy gains east of the shores, which are being torn apart and used, if I understood that correctly, in an ◯carbon neutal, which is creating energy for the hospital and other institutions at the North Sea, I think was, and also at the Earth. Would such a solution fall under this subsidies system? Does this apply exclusively to a home or to a company that falls under it in cold areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u228	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and it is very important because it is important that we do not have to bring it over and over because it lacks something into the definition. The definition is this, by permission of the President: These laws apply to all the instruments leading to environmental energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency during house warming, including needed support for its activity, except for changes in the heat systems within the door. I just hope that's all. The job committee will do very well with this definition that sounds to me so that it should reach it as well as it should. A senator was referring to the fact that we do not know which technology next comes. I've missed a little, I have to admit, when this discussion is up to date, we've talked about water in general, earth and wind, but we never talk about solar energy. It can be used here, and that technology is sure to get better, and there are other things. In this case, lip pumps have been spoken most of, but there are many more. I don't know this technology as well as I do. A senator referred to, but I think it's really important that it's in there and whatever else it is that comes along that will meet those requirements. This is for a home, expected and expected. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u229	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and hope that this will be examined carefully. A committee and careful not to impose on the options and developments that are taking place, for it is so important that we seek the best and most practical solutions. If I understand the correct action of this solution, which I specifically mentioned east of the coast, it is, talking about the cycle economy, a remarkable success of being caught by these materials which would otherwise require disposal; a terminal freightboard that would not be reused. I have no further questions to the highest level. Minister but thank you for the answer and for the urgency. A committee to approach with a greater sense than narrower in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u230	A respectable president. Without going to extend it much, I hope we haven't. A senator and others wrangled. Parliaments agree that this is a step forward and one of the many things we need to take to achieve success. But I just wanted to mention that we must not forget it, and that is one of the things we must not lose sight of, that it is also very important that we keep looking for warm water for house warming. In recent years, we have done very little. Although it is not done as we know it, e.g. Here in the capital area and many other places, the technology can be used to have hot water in homes around the country. We need to take the next step in doing so, and we need to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u231	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the history of this important matter, which I believe, is very important to the country. The bill shows that the power to buy equipment results in environmental energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency at house warming is equivalent to half of the cost. The bill says that concentrations for 50% of the cost, according to the Ministry, should be sufficiently encouraging. I'd like to ask the Minister if there are any calculations behind this and then how it was found out. I'd like to point out that the bill shows up, as the minister mentioned in his background, that it releases up to 110 GWst in a different use. That's 50,000 electric cars. There's an enormous amount of energy saved by this. And that the government invests in these energy - sparing devices, heat pumps in particular, also reduces the expenses of state funds, subsidies. It saves the state. Also, this 110 GWst will move from a 11% worthy tax category to 24%, i.e. When these 110 GWst are to be sold. The bill also shows that the legalisation of the bill will have no financial impact on the state funds. So I wondered if it wasn't normal for this number, 50%, to go up to 80%, even 90%. Even if it is, because now it's like having the energy companies, if I remember correctly, gauges, just giving them a lot of strength. I can't see anything else, since this has no financial impact and really could the state come into profit, I don't talk about social benefits, but that 50% is simply too low.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u232	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and inquiry. True, although this does not have financial consequences for a government fund, we can say that it has to be settled, and then it gets back at some point, so it gets over. Then people may wonder if this is enough of a motivation, but at least I have not heard the details of the situation worrying about it. So I think there will be a lot of things to take when it comes to these issues and the media to create incentives, financial motivations, to promote energy saving and improving energy efficiency. I'm asking for respect, but I can't remember which. A senator is on the pro board, but I don't trust him. The job committee for careful reviewing these factors, which are perfectly normal at the moment. A senator does. [[No, I'm sorry.]] He is like the others here who spoke of an amateur success because the benefits are obvious. When I saw this, it was my first question: Why haven't you done it before?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u233	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I strongly urge him to look into this further at the Ministry and inquire about this 50% because I think it's too low, if you look at the benefits. This is a national advantage in terms of 110 GWst use, increase in cost taxes, and reduces the cost of the state, both the increase in income due to the cost of the tax party and the cost of the State. It's not high numbers, I see. An example is mentioned on page 19. 6 In the bill, it shows that the figure could be worth even 40,650 million a year, and there are other cases where the figure would be higher. This project involves a total of 7,800 thermal pumps, and it is from eight to ten years old. I understand that the government is going to put 30 billion out of energy exchanges and so forth, because of the climate and so forth. Here's a classic example of what the state should actually put more money into because it is of enormous importance to the population and it would clearly speed up energy exchange if this percentage was to increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u234	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for him later answers. I'm just encouraging you. A committee to deal well with this. But I also note that this is not all we have to do. To achieve our climate goals, we need to deal with a number of factors. In this case, we're hitting a series of cones in one strike, but as I mentioned before in answer to a what. paritaprevir Ólason should we lose sight of looking for hot water. In fact, even here we are in the capital area, where we need more. The same is true of most of these areas now using electrical heating, where we should also examine other ways, not just in the home but, of course, for the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u235	Mr. President. It may be appropriate to start by describing the satisfaction of this bill because all that reduces energy demand is of the good and is part of what needs to be done to meet the challenges of the existing environment and climate. This is partly a result of the discovery we've been going through in the last year, that this feeling of overexhaustment, that there's plenty of energy here, may not have been a solid foundation. But I would like to ask, because this is a household operation that needs to depend on the electricity needed for house warming, if it also needs to examine some kind of action to achieve energy - sparing measures in homes that use heating for heating. We have started to see more and more in the news that such energy is lacking. In Selphoss, the hot waters were in the media last week. Yes, more than ever can be eaten there when Selephos continues to grow. We do not have to, while helping those homes who want to reduce the use of electricity for house warming, to be increasingly concerned with how we can reduce the energy demand of all households, e.g. Reservation here in the capital area? There nature's energy has become a little stressed over its lack of more holes to feed that area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're not gonna make it just by picking up new holes. We too need to reduce our need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u236	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. The short answer is yes. But I wanted to use this opportunity because I have a few seconds here to discuss what we always need to be aware of. Hv. A senator mentioned too much, and that is never too much. We must be very alert to watch the resources. When I came to this straight about two decades ago, or maybe one and a half years ago, it was emphasized, and I hope it remains that way. But you need to make sure that we are doing so. When it comes to the earth's heat and geotherms, we have so far brought good luck to manage the resource that it is renewable. I've been in some other place where it wasn't done, and it takes a very long time to get it back up. I mentioned it earlier in this discussion, and I always mention it when it comes to climate that we have some amazing things to do. It's one of the things that save energy, that's how it works. It doesn't matter where it is. Happily, though, there is one resource that we do not need to save and that is too much. That's smart. It's our biggest resource, and that's just the way it is, but we've been very hard to tell, that when we started using the geothermal to heat, we were pretty much the only ones in the world who did it. It was Icelandic people who found all ways because you didn't order from any catacombs or such for Reykjavík or other places. We should emphasize the importance of using these resources in the best way possible, not just for ourselves, but to help make use of them in other parts of the world. In fact, if everyone were to use hot water for house warming as we do, there would be no climate problem. The largest source of heat in the world is no longer in Reykjavík or in the capital area, in Xiang, China, that is the cooperation of Icelandic and Chinese companies, and the savings of emissions there, in this small city in China, is as great as our total emissions in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u237	Mr. President. This feeling of over-employment to our energy resource is something I mention, for example. in the context of a discussion about isolation of houses. We received a new building order here over a decade ago, which was criticized by various stakeholders for going quite far in demand for the efficiency of housing. Then it was used against their viewpoints that if there was a problem with the house leaking heat, it could only be turned up in the oven. But it's not that way, as we can see, for example. Because PGE has had to close the delivering of hot water to major users regularly during the last winter. That's why my eyes have had to close. So I think, as the Minister says, it's important to save all energy, and that's why some more specific measures need to be taken, not only in cool areas, but also in the hot areas to reduce energy consumption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u238	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. Of course, we must plan ahead too. We haven't come to that place, I haven't heard anyone say that we needed hot water to warm up a house here in the capital area, but they have to make plans for a very long time. When it comes to geologic research, you have to do it long before you go on the projects, which means that you always have to be careful. It's a big responsibility for the energy industry that we rely on, that they plan ahead and think long-term. We are, for example. with the energy plant, which has been with everyone for energy saving ideas. It is a lifelong project to make better use of, but of course, we also need to be careful, so we do not have to leave our houses without warm water. It's a carelessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u239	A respectable president. I believe this is an extremely important matter for areas where there is no access to low-cost heating and I believe this environmental energy level here is being encouraged to be important. However, I believe that the state's concentration to apartment owners, as shown in my counter-representation, is equivalent to only half the cost of commercial equipment, resulting in environmental energy sources and/or improved efficiency of house warming and only up to a maximum of 1 billion. If not enough. I think the benefits of the government are to take the most direct approach to those who are investing in this equipment. There I directed that the government's expenses from the subsidies will be reduced. These differences should actually apply directly to the cost of buying the equipment, since the government does not need to profit in any way from the expense of its inhabitants. It will also release, as I said before, 110 GWst, an enormous amount of electricity that corresponds to the use of 50,000 electric cars. Also, this 110 GWst will enter a higher value tax category so that both the State and the state will earn more money on investments from sources paying half the cost of equipment. I'm sorry, I'm not on a job committee but I challenge a minister to look at this further and get more information about the Ministry's evaluation that the scholarship is 50%, if it should be higher. Each percent of the stockbrokers of the device would be affected, and that would increase the incentive. Besides, these are just temporary expenses. It is stated in the bill that Power Institute estimates that product pump projects only cover 7,800 thermal pumps, i.e. both instruments and installations, and spending will only increase to a shorter time. This is a very important thing. I am a member of the Northwestern District, and I see that this is a very important matter for the Westerners and the northern population, including the Huns of Lakes, and in the cold regions of Skavetir. I also believe that this is very important for the whole country and is part of balance conditions. If it's to be done quickly and safely, then the only way to raise the percentage is to increase. This 50% is not inducing enough. As shown in the answer to the highest. A minister before that, it's a little surprised that this sort of thing isn't too long but it's good to have it done. There's one point in the bill that I'd like to draw attention to as far as strength is concerned. On the contrary, he asked why. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason in the thermal pumps and what kind of equipment would be strong. This is shown in the bill, in comment on 1. ., that there are thermal pumps, including solar batteries, windmills, and heat controls, as well as stable outside-door equipment that needs to be installed and connected. However, the costs of changes to access heat systems within the doors, e.g. supersystems and other things, they're not strong enough. It is set before us that the oven systems can also save energy, with its final energy. I'd like to point out in this connection that in the present system, and that is shown in comments at 5. g., is given strength based on the calculations of savings that will be due to costs of isolation, such as windows, doors, and other items that are contained inside the doors. This strength here is much more limited, or I believe it involves limitation. It's just building up the equipment to buy energy instead of insulation and other energy - sparing action inside the door. I wondered, " Could it be falling from person to person, apartment owners who buy windows, and other things that save energy use inside the door? ' It would be worth a job service committee, if the employment committee's office is here in the hall, specifically considered whether funding is being reduced to the apartment owners in this regard. That would be very interesting, because this bill is only a means of buying equipment, not to energy saving in general. You can buy the equipment, but you can still stay in a facility that is very energy - building because it is not sufficiently isolated. It's not even a lot of money that's under here. The bill says: It is assumed that short-term spending will be financed by an increase of 50 million. K. The annual budget range on the 15 Energy issues starting with 2023 and the rest of the budget of the 17 Environmental Action Programme intended for energy exchange Hence, this is not a large amount of money, and it is indicated in the bill that this is not thought to have any financial impact on the financial resources. These are absolute coins for government funds if these are actually expenses in themselves, as I said before, based on reduced subsidies and increased income. I believe that the state should only exceed an equation of agricultural conditions and energy exchange to increase the percentage. I'm not saying 100%, but I'm going at least. up to 75 or 80%, at least examine that calculation. I just think this figure is a little bit invented without calculating. It'll be here at least not in the report with the bill that some calculations were made. I think it's very important, and I need a case, and I should have been out of the way a long time. I wondered, though, " Is this power to buy things that depend on energy savings in general where the house needs less energy, it seems to be falling away from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u240	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Just to make it clear, you're not falling away or tightening strength. It's primarily for simplicity, and I'm convinced that this will have a very positive effect, and there's a lot of money on this. But just so it's clear, because of what. One senator was wondering if this might have any effect on another's strength: It is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u241	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It is good to know that others are not being strengthened, that they are being added to the opportunities they buy. I can't sit on, here's being encouraging environmental energy sources and improved energy consumption, but that's exactly a discussion of a pack of four that we'll discuss later in the season, hopefully not if the government decides not to enter that package. This shows that the United States is fully capable of establishing legislation that has a role in improving energy efficiency. This pack contains regulations for improving energy efficiency. That is exactly how a sovereign state, with a power-in- each country, should use its laws, national legislation, to improve energy efficiency. We do not need to be getting Brussels rules in this regard. We can make rules ourselves about that, and this is a classic example of that and very good legislation. I just couldn't afford to bring this up here, I was going to make this happen in my speech, but I'm going to make this come out as an answer to the highest voice. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u242	A respectable president. It never happened, so it wouldn't go out in a discussion about the energy package. Of course, this is how we manage these matters ourselves. It's a framework we're involved in the EEA partnership and I don't think anyone is paid by taking some discussion about it. The main thing is this and it's going to be our focus, whether it's in this or any other: I'll bring this right away, just like the bill I came into earlier, and I'll bring the box right away because our work on the climate is huge and I'll bring right away all the issues that I think we can use more energy and we'll get the high-profile goals we've set for ourselves. I'm very happy to hear what I've heard. Senators on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u243	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the second answer. I know we'll talk about energy efficiency and energy package four later in the season. This bill is a good proof of how unnecessary that package is. I also rejoice that environmental, energy, and climate ministers are going to highlight energy efficiency. As a resident here in Reykjavík, a person formerly grew up in hot water as a very cheap resource, and it's time for us to go around that resource with great respect, and people think of improved energy efficiency on the hot water as well as in all areas. It is an enormously valuable resource. Now energy crisis in Europe, and I believe the energy resource, electricity, is a more valuable resource than the fish-fishing resource. If we are able to control it completely ourselves, it will result in great prosperity and prosperity for Icelandic society, as we have achieved with the industrial policy. That's what the information revolution is based on, on electricity. We have an enormous resource there. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsored and excellent advance on this good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u244	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in house - to - house subsidies law, No. 78/2002, environmental energy sources. I'd like to welcome this bill and thank the Minister for the fine history of the case, and I can agree very much with what has been presented in the discussion up to this point. The bill is primarily thought about simplicity, but it aims to reduce waste of resources, energy resources, with increased efficiency. But I would also like to suggest that during the treatment of the matter, you will be able to see how the cycle economy can get in there too. As has been established here in the past, there are now more possibilities than those mentioned in the bill for practical and environmental energy sources. Today, a forest has been cultivated by farmers in Iceland for 50 years, and it falls on both crops and waste wood, greasing wood, from these forests. As has been observed here in the past, experiments in the East have been carried out by a reinvestment of wood, so to speak, waste wood that does not have to grow old or move abroad or do something else, but it is used for housekeeping. They are also experimenting with tycoon wood and wastewood from timbers that are being used in the East. I think it is very important that the Parliament's discussion of whether it is wise to take this part into the bill or whether it needs to look to other ways to encourage the use of this site as near as possible to produce valuables. It is particularly nice to mention a wooden station that uses wooden gills and the warmest building of the River Valley Stripes. I would also like to mention and agree with what has been said here during the discussion and at the highest level. Minister came in, including... On, i.e. the importance of continuing to look for hot water, whether it is for the capital area, the area of the year, or the Gambiey. There are monsters themselves, e.g. Be assured that hot water can be found there and that it can be stopped from burning oil. The bill is about motivation to improve the efficiency of living in an apartment building. But I would also like to mention the importance of looking to other buildings, public buildings. I'd especially like to mention, because it's so close, Hallorm's place where men have also been experimenting with wooding a little earlier, but the technology may not have become as good as it is now. Public buildings that want to switch to thermal pumps or other environmental sexuality and to reduce energy consumption are not necessarily easy because they are not able to get the extra money to go into the process. There's nothing in that subject by itself. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to consider ways to do so. This, of course, applies to schools in cold areas. Also, you might ask, " How can I encourage my employment, especially tourism, in the rural areas of this country? ' These are the two main points I wanted to come in on, how we use the wood in the circuit, where we're being produced, and how we use the forest resources in Iceland, as well as how we look at buildings other than houses. I just want to encourage a review of the current situation whether it is at home in this case or if we need to find other ways to improve energy efficiency and better resource use in those substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u245	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The definition on the bill is this: These laws apply to all the instruments leading to environmental energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency during house warming, including needed support for its activity, except for changes in the heat systems within the door. This is the definition. I know why. This will be considered carefully by a committee and will examine just these interesting factors. A senator refers to him. Then it's one of my priorities that we use a geologist where we can, and we're supposed to look for him more than we've done in recent years. Maybe we've just fallen asleep there. But I appreciate it. A senator for her part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u246	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-regulated and for reviewing the definition of what falls under the bill. I would like to take into consideration this interesting work done on the North Sea, where we make wooden patches of wood, both made from the refurbishment and from the refurbishment. The Eastern building fund has supported this project in recent years as a development project, precisely since it is part of the economy. Of course, it is very important to the future that there are others who are motivated to do this environmental way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u247	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy to be looking for other ways to warm up facilities using environmental energy sources. We're incredibly lucky here in Iceland to have a heating system in many places, but unfortunately, it's not that way around the country and the cost where it's not possible. Living abroad, you recognize other methods, e.g. The heat pumps that are widely used on the west coast of the United States It's a pleasure to see that people are being developed ways to buy that equipment and get strength, and I think that's always good. But like a dog. paritaprevir It is important that Anna Sævarsdóttir mentioned it is important not only to care for the housing business but also to attend schools and public buildings and other things. This may be because even more savings and efficiency can be achieved. What I would direct to the environment and transport committee when they look at this... well, am I going to get this on a professional committee? [[I've got it up to you. Workaholics.]] So I'll just direct myself to the Committee to consider that this refers to a contract between 15 and 15 years of age. I would think that over the next 15 years, there will be a number of other technologies that will be used when it comes to the possibility of building a house. It may be tying us a little bit if we say, "You're getting a backup pump now, but maybe not a lip pump, and something else that might close the gap,'because it was said that this technology could be used to warm up, if I remember correctly, from half to four fifths of what is needed. What if we have another technology that bridges it, and we can get free of it? There may be some of these things that we need to consider, and we will do so when discussing the matter on a job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u248	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the protection and energy efficiency programmes. The laws on the protection and energy efficiency programme, or a program called in daily speech, became fully established on January 14, 2013. The aim of the law is to ensure that the implementation of a region where activation is found is based on long-term conditions and the overall basis of interest assessments, which will take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and interest of different national initiatives and values, as well as those in use of these same benefits, with the guidance of sustainable development. It is made up of proposals for interpretation of the protection and energy efficiency programme, i.e. A strategy proposed by the secretary for the General Assembly is now the third step of the framework for the Environment and Transport Committee of the Parliament, as you know. The law says that the strategy takes out land areas and activation options as a project management has discussed and has installed a power source of 10 MW or more or more, or installed a heat force of 50 MW or more. It will not address activation unless the expansion includes assessments carried out on the decision of the Organization or the decision of the Minister to conduct organizational matters. When the law was agreed to by the General, treatment of activation under the current environmental assessment laws was increased in such a way that there were reports to the Agency to determine whether it was to be performed on an assessment basis. If these increases were not related to food, they did not have to go through the framework process. Following implementation of the Treaty on the Framework Programme, changes in environmental assessment laws have been made and, according to current legislation, all of them exceed 10 MW assessments. The change means that growths that may not have had to be discussed in the frame plan may now need to be discussed with the associated delays, even though there may have been little or no impact on the area that is even disturbed. In other cases, increasing numbers include changes in already built - up and in - use activities, but changes have limited environmental impacts, although they can significantly enhance activation. The bill I recommend here suggests the change in plans not to increase the proportion of already operating efficiency and due to size falls under the law, as long as the enlargement does not involve the interruption of a damaged area. With the exception of the increases in activations only affecting existing areas of the environment the decision to allow implementation can be accelerated in order to improve the efficiency of the already operating fortresses. I would like to take an example of the increase in activation that the change affected. In the fourth stratosphere of the project management programme, four initiatives involved in increasing activation of already operating processes were used by project management. This involved the three hydropowers in the Þrjórður/Tungna area and the geologic activation of the Black Sea. In general, land activation, running the three hydropowers, was designed to increase the power of the fortress at 210 MW, and the combined energy efficiency was estimated to increase by a rate of some 25- transfusion time per year. In Blackmen, the plans were to include an increase in energy of 50 MW and a corresponding increase in energy efficiency of 410 gigawatts per year. In phases 1 and 2 the steps were given the four priming options. In the case of the three hydrodynamic activation initiatives, both professional groups found that the impact of the activation options on all parameters and subtypes of the field groups would be non- or negligible. In terms of the expansion of the Black Sea for the evaluation of the trade group 1 of both value and the impact of enlargement. The group concluded that the value of the area is intermediate, reflecting that the area is already disturbed, and that the impact of the enlargement on most subjects and subscales was below intermediate levels, resulting in implementation in areas that are already damaged. Based on professional group 2 the impact of the implementation would be on the population parameters as well as little or no. From the above, it can be concluded that implementation in a broad range of areas is generally responsible for their impact on professional populations 1 and 2 parameters being limited, at least in the case of projects that are of the same nature as those previously performed in the region. I believe it is important to say that with the changes, no discount is being made on any of the requirements for the projects that depend on the changes. The increase in activation will continue to depend on the evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency's activities as well as on the granting of the Agency's granting of a new activation permit by electricity law and, in addition, a new license for geotrophic intensification. So I'm not suggesting that current activations be increased without legal coverage of such expansion, but it's just being suggested that they don't have to go through the frame process. It is also necessary to show that the process of a frame plan cannot be avoided by planning and building activation under the size limit of the law and then extending it over the size limit without review in the frame plan. Such expansion will have to take place in the course of a framework as required by the law. V.E.G. President. I think this bill is an important part of the transformation process we're going through here on the land. The energy exchange is a major project and a key part of Iceland's achieving its objectives in climate change. However, for energy exchange to be possible, it is necessary to produce more energy, but as we have all observed, energy shortages and reductions in energy consumption have been high in recent weeks and months. This bill provides an opportunity to speed up the forces already operating in land areas that have been decided to allow activation operations to occur. V.E.G. President. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be referred to. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u249	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you some questions about ideas that have been introduced into the consultation process by the Young Environment, which I find interesting. I would like to hear from the minister how they were handled in the Ministry and responded. Young environmentalists stress that the requirements for such technical growth should be clearly defined and the actions within the proposed conditions. This may be regarded by a measure of distrust that is natural in Iceland's nature conservation sector with regard to the idea of removing restrictions in the system of this operation but is also, I think, wherever we are, something worth talking about, that the legislation is clear about what it's wearing. Thus, the review of young environmentalists points out, for example. Ask yourself, " Am I supposed to have increased efficiency of machines, improved steam disposal, and an overflow efficiency, just to see that it will be used as my best access. ' Minister said it shouldn't be. So I may also find it amusing to suggest that a possible technical expansion will be directed by a certain proportion of intensified activation so that it is not the same as adding 100 MW to the power capacity of activation that is originally 50 MW or 500 MW. How have the two points been handled within the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u250	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. According to the bill, the role of the Power Agency is to assess these growths, and I think most people's response is that this is a very good way to get more energy without having to be some particular debate about it. These examples that I mentioned in my frontnote address are real examples, and it's very good for us to get both the installed power and the giga times without having to go to the new activations. I think it's something we celebrate. However, this needs to be kept in mind because of the circumstances. A senator was talking about an energized force, the megawatt--it doesn't always tell the whole story, as it turned out when we compared these advantages together. There was a low power installed in the geothermal activation, but much of that was done in contrast with the water - power activation process. But the main point is to me: This is a good way to make better use of what we have. That is why it can be called an energy saving bill if one wants to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u251	Mr. President. It will be the role of the Energy Agency to assess applications, but the Energy Agency will, of course, do so on the basis of some guidance from the legislator, and that's what I was asking about which it was not answered, whether or not the lawgiver should give any clearer instructions in these laws as to what would fall under this umbrella, whether it should be certain procedures or types of action that fall under them. Whether this expansion should be proportional to the extent of existing activation, whether we aim for an installed power or whatever else we aim to achieve. I'd like to ask, because it's here that it's being added to the law on a frame plan that has long been called after: "Where does the work of the Ministry that hasn't been called less on about bringing some blow to the wind? " Here was a bill to add wind energy to the laws on a frame plan a year ago, but it was employed by a committee and is not in the Constitution of the current legislature. I'd like to study with the Minister, since we have him here in the hall discussing energy issues, when is there to expect any such thing, where the wind power is in the pipes at the same time during these days about her frame-up situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u252	A respectable president. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee will definitely examine these factors as well. A senator is referring to him. I'm really impressed that it's possible with some of the inducers that are there. I took an example of large fortresses, but I have also heard of man - made mini-creatures, by renewing the equipment, that the use of big extras, makes me feel that there's only a lot of good news. I don't know if there's anything we should try to limit it if it meets the conditions set out here. You see, it's amazing that men with the same activation, with new technologies, and without other changes, can achieve a much greater efficiency than we have today. In view of the wind wind, it may not be entirely discussed right now, but it may be to say that work is started to compare what has been going on in our neighboring countries, since most of them are much farther than we are when it comes to the wind. It is good to compare it when we present a bill or a frame around the wind energy, as laid down in the government covenant. At present, wind - power costs are, of course, inside the frame, like a sledge. A senator, though not many, knows them. I hope that's a good look at it, considering. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u253	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister very much for good advance. I've previously said from this platform that I've waited a long time to see this bill come up and enter this hall for a discussion. I'm delighted, and that's what I'm doing primarily because I believe that we're better off, in all this energy talk, to get up in the right direction when it comes to looking for ways to improve energy efficiency and to look for all the possible ways to make better use of the monuments we've already done. I think this bill is totally part of that subject and clearly, as shown in a very good report by it, all in harmony with the government plan as it is shown in a government contract. To tell you the truth, this case is very important to me. But there are other things that I find interesting and that make me feel the same way. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I thought the shooting was a little off, so I'd like to ask the minister about it here, according to Article 1. The bill should provide a basis for the Agency's evaluation because whether the function of the Framework Programme really takes part in the enlargement process or not. Another fine report shows that it is normal for her to consult the institutions or members that she feels are necessary to get an opinion on the subject's enlargement. I'd like to curious at the highest. Minister whether to look to institutions other than the Power Institute in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. The short answer is that it sounds like it should be simple and should not be a big matter. But perhaps there is something to consider. I must now admit that my first thought, when it comes to which institution knows this most likely, is Power Institute. But I think behind the question there's some concern that you're going to use this as a way to go by and start with some activation, and then you're going to get a quick treatment so you've become something completely different or something quite different from it. There was no concern in the process of this case, that something like that would be possible. In particular, by means of the hydrodynamic mechanics, humans are all the same as with their equipment and with the value of the geothermals as well. At any rate, the discussion of this subject did not reveal this concern. But I have no doubt: for the treatment of the assembly is, that men may discuss it as they do all things. But it's simply this idea, like cot. A senator here indicated, to improve energy efficiency, to improve the mechanisms that are already present in affected areas, and this is suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u255	A respectable president. Yes, I think I understand that this is just what I'm looking at, and that's just what I'm celebrating. You see, I think we can do better in many places. I'm not gonna talk about if we can look up and we can improve the efficiency of the existing activations. We will also be able to save ourselves an attack on breaking up a new land that is highly offensive and that will always be an eternal demand. But I am quite aware that some of these are growing, which, for example, are growing. has been evaluated, and the minister's ability to shave in his own language is not necessarily a matter of meeting all the ideas that have developed. But this is, I think, a nice trip. But then I wonder, though it's right to the highest. A minister says, I pretended to find out here in the consultation section that there had been some concerned people, and I understand where they came from: the Minister's opinion, in the hearing of the council, is that there is a particular look at any other institutions, and I fall, for example. in the view of the Institute of Natural Science and/or the Environment, would a role be defined either in place of the Power Institute or by the Power Institute? I understand the reasons in the report that it's the preferred argument that it's the Power Institute. But does the minister's ability to address any concern in this situation seem reasonable by specifying or specifically specifying the institutions that might be considered? Rather than looking to what is stated in a legal explanation of 1 st. The bill, which says that on such evaluations it is reasonable for the Agency to consult the institutions or members that it feels are necessary to get an opinion on the subject of enlargement, that it is simply due to what institutions it should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-26.u256	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It's not just the secretary's feeling, it's the Power Institute that has a role under the law and that it assesses whether priming options are sufficiently defined to follow up the project management assessment and therefore it's only natural to evaluate whether growth should be done under the programme or not. It provides a new activation permit for the larger inducers and has a well-defined role according to electrical law. Of course, these things are considered on the Committee, whether the Power Institute is talking to any person or whatever he or she is doing. But I expect it to happen anyway, without my working in such an institution, to be called for information and such. On the other hand, because of what. A senator described it well, then it is really - I don't know what it's like in English, but I try to keep to Icelandic in this chair - a fruit that is low. I don't know if that's a good translation. It doesn't matter which country we compare with; although they don't want to give a discount on what we do, we're still trying to simplify things so that things happen. It is also dangerous if we fail to meet the requirements for this journey, and we find ourselves in some condition that it will only be required to clear everything up because it needs energy. [[The president calls.]] While there is some balance between these factors, there are, of course, all aspects taken into consideration by the committee.
