ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u1	A letter has been received from the Ministry of Education and Children where it is requested every time to give a written answer to a spell query. 545, the Ministry's responsibility for the violence and its consequences, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and for the inquiry. 375, the adjustment of children to school, from Lovehilda Þórsdóttir
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u2	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today than the Congress puts it, if necessary, to complete the first part of a financial program planned for today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u3	A respectable president. Behold, I am declaring to you great joy. The General Assembly Committee of the Future was invited to meet with the World Commission of the Future, the Finnish Committee of the Parliament, who has worked for decades to draw up the future with the best of men and women and then to try to improve the picture that appears to be evident in each case. We were so lucky to sit with these good people for two days; the Finnish Parliament's 17 - man committee held a tremendous amount of time, energy, and humanity in talking with us; it gives us all the data and information they have gathered and possess. It is a well - guarded committee, and it has also been consulted with the advice of the legislatures established, the gift of the Council to the Finnish people on the anniversary of the Council, three decades ago. SITRA'S name is the financier and has contributed to or profited from the gift, the funds given to the council, and a bank in Finland also provided funds. The lessons of this are no less than 5 billion each year. 180 employees and they can call in the best and most flashing minds of the day. It was fascinating days and inspired, I think I could say on behalf of us who were there. I've got a hot wish and a rumor that we're now bringing up a group of years of problems in the work of the Generals - there's no meaning at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u4	Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u5	Yeah, I'll just finish that sentence anyway. That we can get them to the rhythm of our work here that there will be no more talk and we can focus on the most urgent matters we are going to solve, analyze, and we are going to give ourselves room to think into the future, since our biggest problems today are probably the ones that came along because it was not thought far enough. That's even where I own it. At the location of the airport, the location of the Land Hospital, the sales of Shiman, the sales of banks, and the source of the joint resources of all Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Consider the future, and let us take time to do so. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u6	A respectable president. In the past three years, new sports movement has moved to bed here on land, electrical sports. Like other sports movements, this movement has made it a goal to improve the health and mental well - being of children. In recent years, electronic sports has grown tremendously worldwide, including this country. Iceland's electronic sports organization was formed with the goal of building organized electronic sports in Iceland. Unlike other parts of the world, where interest and development in electronic sports have been driven by the game's production companies and by the professional team in the foreground competition, the RAAS has built up the work here with botanical activities that teach children to associate with video games in a reasonable way. RIBI's methodology is based on three terms; physical activity, plays, and computer games with emphasis on spiritual preparation. With these emphasises, local electronic sports companies have been attracting more than 2,000 practicers during their high school year. There's Thor, Akureyri, and Brenublik at the front of 400 each. The most positive thing in these figures is that most of the practicers are children who are not interested in the routine sports work and thus are being activated by a number of children who were not already in any organized sports job. The person here has personal experience with the positive effects of electrical sports, which have greatly helped my son with social skills and has also aroused his interest in physical activity. Since the RISI institution, progress has loyally supported the rise of electrical sports, and recently a resolution was adopted at a platoon meeting for the establishment of the electrical sport industry fund. Therefore, I would like to encourage everyone here at the General Assembly to study the operation of electronic sports and provide a broad support for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u7	A respectable president. Last week, at the General Assembly, we had a discussion on prison equipment, whether on Little Lava or on Cavibourg. So I started thinking back. I visited my uncle who spent a couple of months in that room. Thus, I regularly meet young men who have just finished abduction, and I often think that those men who have been in prison had no business there. They're just guys who got lost, usually in connection with alcohol or drugs. It is a sin to place these uncaring men in such severe prisons, even though they have committed crimes. In many lands there are abandoned boarding schools or even summer hotels, some of which are not employed for perhaps four or five months a year. It would be enough to have such a situation for those boys who would be going in for the first time. If they're any misbehaves and run off and go into town, they can be put on Little Homshön or something like that. But as long as they take their first punishment, they are far more likely to receive some form of treatment associated with the real problem of addiction. These young men, tough young ones, who are actually well - off in their 20's, are being treated very badly by those young men, setting them up in an environment where hard - necked criminals are. So I suggest that the environment be human and comfortable and that the prisoners have the opportunity to think and to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u8	Mr. President. On February 14, 738 children waited to get to a Greek and behavioral station, with a mean waiting time of 1,2◯14 months. 326 children were waiting for a diagnostic procedure at the State Advisor and Analysis Centre with a mean waiting time of 12◯19 months. After parents notice that the child is in trouble, it may take about three years to get the first treatment - three years, Mr. President. Hundreds of children are waiting for the diagnosis of ADHD. V.E.G. Secretary of education and child care says there's a chance of raising funding for analysis. We see no evidence of this in budgets or financial programs for the next year. With the approval of the success bill on the welfare of children last year, things have deteriorated. In other words, it is not enough to say that you want to address children's problems and change their name to institutions. We need to act quickly. The premise for early intervention, at the highest level. Just as a minister may speak as desirable, it is precisely that children do not have to wait for years for diagnosis and deliberation. Above all, many workers have bad symptoms and have just had to stop working at a consulting and diagnostic facility with symptoms of mold in the station. Much of the workers have to work away from home, since they get very sick when they come to the house. Not all employees, however, are able to work at home because of their circumstances at home and the nature of their work. This problem with housing, not human resources, as a result of counseling and analysis. The inability and failure of the attorney generals results in a prolonged waiting list with serious consequences for the waiting children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u9	A respectable president. A concentration based on climate, quality, quality of life, is about good urban development, economic efficiency, and good human life. You see, we are social creatures, and most of us like to be around people. It all matters, and we here at the Council should do what we can to support the development of communities, support social blending. And yes, projects and changes in our environment call for conversation, require patience. At times, they are unpleasant, but they pay many times. Of course, contractors run an eye for an inexpensive land beyond a densely populated area. They are well suited to the breaking of a new land. What, then, is the cost? Yes, it is the country society that needs to build and maintain new roads, build and build new structures. Then there are the service companies that have to put on longer and more expensive repairs, and most important, the family costs that have to pay much higher transport costs or why would car property at the edge of the capital area be on average twice as much as the central area? That's what it says. Distribution is an expensive distribution, increasing traffic. It increases menstrual periods, weakens public transportation, walks on green areas, and amplifys the climate problem. Politicians and political groups that are antiinhabilitation cannot expect to be taken seriously in the climate discussion. Of course, the special interest forces will continue to fight with their mouths and their mouths for expansion policy and distribution, that contractors are delivered out and south, and remain free of charge, but us in politics, both in the rural and here at the Council, should have the courage to get up with the public with good and green urban development and against selfish gain. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u10	A respectable president. At a fundraiser this morning, I requested a bank office memo relating to the sale at Iceland Bank, which I expect will be released from a committee this week. Both the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister has declared the need to shed a better light on the sale and said the highest. Prime Minister that law should not interfere with the publication of the list, which might now be tested. Depravity, although not a government plan, may still exist. If the direction for sale is unclear and the understanding of a third party is that the choice of buyers is similar to what happens when the stock market is sold privately, this can lead to action on public property on discounts without proper logical support. If sales are chosen to handle Kingdom projects up to 700 million. K. without any evidence of who was selected, questions naturally arise. Why? When dealing with property and government funds, we make a demand for transparency and equality that is much more rigid and that happens in private business. The reason is primarily the fear of corruption. Therefore, it is so important that a serious examination of this process and that questions that have not been answered will not be answered, that the shoulders will not just be shruged and continue to sell tens of millions of possessions just somehow, in order to make the big movie a good thing. We in the United States will follow this case closely and press for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u11	Mr. President. A few times a year, and more often in other fields, new Icelanders are granted the citizenship rights. The procedure in Iceland is that once you've been granted a citizen's right to an application, either to the Foreign Institute or to the World Congress, people will receive a letter saying: The application has been accepted. Have a good day. It's a small shortcut, but the letter is stated in a rough way. In 2006, Norwegian government began a ceremony for individuals granted the Norwegian citizenship rights. It's a festival. It marks the beginning of the new citizenship and is designed to strengthen the bond between new citizens and the State. The new citizens who accept an invitation to participate in the ceremony make a commitment and receive a book as a gift. The book examines key chapters of Norwegian history and key elements in the daily lives of the Norwegian people. It also contains an introduction in Norwegian democracy, the courts and human rights, the rights and the duties of citizens' rights. It's about time, as long as the wait was, that we're here at the council... we're going to accept a bill of citizenship... for the first time in this term, and that's a great deal of joy, and I'm really looking forward to it. I'm going to make my suggestion that we adopt an arrangement similar to that of the Norwegians. Getting a citizenship is a huge event in each person's life, in fact, no matter how it feels, and normal to welcome it in a proper way, and I think it would be a great deal of respect to offer people a formal welcome and grant them entry into our society in such a way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u12	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir recently sold the State on a stake in Iceland Bank as a subject here, under the same team yesterday. There she emphasized how important it is that the sale of the Kingdom be fully transparent, especially with regard to who was allowed to invest in the bank in this process. I agree perfectly with this. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has called for a list of buyers and the rules relevant to the information. The first part of Iceland's bank sales was successful stock tenders, and in general, negative voices were heard only from those who were at the head of a bank sale. However, since the beginning of the year, the government has not intended to own the bank indefinitely. What a necessary step the government had to take! The project was carried out by an independent institution, the Bank Office, who believes that the bid was very successful. It is important that the carp and hairheads on information supply do not abuse the sale, nor do they cause unnecessary distrust. It is normal for us to be informed about who bought and how it was done when it was done with government sales. We senators through a surveillance role with the administration, and we must look for all the ways to get this information. We cannot be happy that we will not be given this information that has been asked for, information regarding sale of state possession. Then there is a better time to discuss the city of Reykjavík's overture policy. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, good if I don't just invite him over for coffee at the Grafar Bay and we'll discuss this better there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u13	A respectable president. The house - to - house affairs are an exciting challenge, and they recently moved to the Office of Our Houses and to the highest level of government. Minister of wood. They're burning on us, and the Ministry is all hands on deck. There's a lot of diagnostic work going on as well as policy. The minister will suggest in the council a resolution on housing later this year, which will be the first of its kind. It is not the first time that advance will find solutions and go new ways, and it has yielded very good results to the general community. The financial strategy currently held before the council, which is discussed, is handled with caution to the earth for the simple reason that the analysis of the situation is being performed, and the subsequent policy developments will exist. Clearly, the first step is to increase the number of structural weights. They're identifying the situation these days and identifying each beach and what else it takes. There are agreements between the Ministry and the local community on planning property rhythms with crowds and housing plans. Companys feel responsible and want to contribute to the people of the country. A respectable president. It takes wide cooperation to balance the supply and demand of housing markets, and when balance is achieved, the key is to support those in need, whether with share loans, social property systems, housing reforms, or whatever it takes to achieve the goals of prosperity. This is a matter of cooperation, cooperation between the countryside and the state, and all must go to work. The need is urgent, and the communities must respond in close cooperation with the State. I have full faith in the highest. Minister of wood for the country's affairs, for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u14	A respectable president. In last night's discussion on budgetary programme 2023-027 at the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance found that there is nothing to be done for poor people, nor should he always make sure that no child lives in poverty. Of course not, for every dollar placed in the extinction of poor children returns ten times as much. This is not acceptable to the government now, since it is in selling government property by discount; the bank is sold by billions of discounts and, of course, absurdly thinking of wiping out poverty at the same time, much less when it is practical. A billion dollars that cannot be used to eliminate poverty, the government needs to be used to increase the number of stewards and put in a new Ministry and even on the East Bank, the most expensive real estate in the country. This, of course, is essential for their priorities and for those who are disabled, and for poor people too, to stay in their system's direction because their time has not yet come. Of course, the government does not need billions of dollars to set things right. Rather, it is busy setting priorities for their own pet projects. The rape of disabled persons in the hospital will continue, and the poor will have to tighten the safety pool for the next four years. Then the government will continue to take steps to establish a United Nations agreement on the affairs of disabled people. The human rights of disabled persons will remain the subject of Iceland's Supreme Court, and now is just another matter at Iceland's Supreme Court on whether communities have the authority to put on human rights for disabled persons. It's a matter of authority to put a reservation on the NAPA agreements that we agreed on at the General Assembly four years ago, the question of whether it's not a violation of human rights to save disabled people against their will at an institution and/or lock them up with inadequate service in their homes as in prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u15	President. It is not difficult to maintain international law when respected. Only when it is broken will the unity of the international community be tested. Russian soldiers are now breaking the most sacred international law; innocent people are murdered by Russian soldiers in Ukraine; the soldiers rape women; whole neighborhoods are devastated. The satellite images show the image as it is, and it's horrible. As a nation, we have to wonder what we can offer. We welcome people who flee their homeland in Ukraine. We're involved in the economic and business barriers. We might also contribute funds to support the Russian war crime investigation, a proposal to do so here at the General Assembly. The situation and the reaction should appear from all angles, and the answer will appear clearly everywhere where the message can be conveyed. The European Union has now dismissed Russian embassy officials because of suspicion of intelligence, France, and Germany, including Danir, Italy, Spain, and Slovenia. Sharks have sent the Russian ambassador home. The European Union led Russian eagles away from Brussels. During the last two days, 200 Russian embassy workers have been driven home. I ask, why don't we expel the Russian ambassador? Yes, it could mean that Iceland's diplomats in Russia will also be driven home. But President. This is in the context of things that can be tolerated. I'm not here to speak for sending the employees of the Russian embassy out of the country because I don't understand that that's a big decision. That's exactly what I do because I understand how big the decision is, the big one, and she's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u16	Madam President. Why do the HMS always sit in the front row in a movie? Merition jokes have existed for as long as I can remember, and they are probably the closest thing the Icelanders have come to in everyday Rasism. These are jokes that come out of pulling completely different individuals down to one and the same partners. It is one thing to say unscrupulous jokes at the expense of groups that are not peripheral but another to tell jokes at the expense of vulnerable groups who have serious and inhibitory prejudices in life and work. It's not just painful and inappropriate, it's cheap, stupid and harmful. What, you don't have humor? is a standard reaction to failures, as the distribution of harmful prejudices and stereotypes is justified as long as it is said in a humorous tone. I'd like to say that decent humorists make more demands than just making them laugh with an underdeveloped joke based on sex and race. Besides, it's just stupid and inappropriate to name people, or maybe look at them, or they're character traits; the fat one with the curls, the guy with the baldness, the blonde in the short skirt, the faggot with the glasses, the black. Illustrating the simple, prejudiced, maintaining them, gives us license to separate people who are different from us, separate them from us, create gaps between groups that have more in common but not in common. V.E.G. Minister. The black ones. In this room, all of us can relate to the feelings of those mentioned because of race and ethnic background, but we do not need to understand their experiences in order to accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u17	Mr. President. In recent years, fighting has greatly increased. With reason and reason, their struggle has reached new heights with the rights to correct matters, e.g. The law on sexual autonomy. Of course, this struggle is not nearly finished, and enough is the challenges of the Governing Body that we need to be aware of. Yet, when it comes to these matters, most people suddenly become experts, and they do not hold back from throwing in conflicting remarks from distorted newscasts or community media. One of the long - term swamps is that translocation is a form of transtransduction and inculcating, especially that of converting women into men. This wording is not acceptable, nor is it acceptable to end anything but your own ignorance and prejudice. Similarly, there has been much discussion about the fact that some people feel sorry for becoming a transistor, even depressed or anxious after the operation. The fact is, though, that the longer people who have received no service or recognition, the more anxiety becomes. Granted, it takes some time to wind down after a sexual confirmation operation is completed. This shows real censorship research. That's what real people say. And, yes, let's not forget that this is what a person says himself. We may want to listen more closely to the very group that many people are talking about. Similarly, transvestite people are in a position to regret their actions. The fact is, however, that only about 1% of people notice their gender - corrected operation. Let's put it in context of the average of all the actions being performed. There's a 14% share. Let us not allow the way to be spoken of by restrictions, prejudice, and fabrication. Let us listen to the group we're talking about, watch with reasonable professionals, and instruct ourselves so that all of us can continue our fight, spreading all good things to people. They will be left to struggle hard so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u18	Mr. President. Sexual violence is an integral part of war, but according to the Treaty of the International War Crime Court in Rome, the rape of war is a crime. Whether we look at Bosnia, Rwanda, or Ukraine, no matter what year it is, a decade or a century; rape is a warlike weapon. When I think of the situation, where men break women and children is the weapon of mass destruction. Now reports from Ukraine that we could expect but are so terrible that I sound: Women and girls as much as 14 years old have reported shocking sexual abuse and rape in the Ukraine War. Sexual violence in war is directly linked to relations between the sexes during times of peace. Sex palaces in communities and the discrimination in which women live are the soil of which sexual abuse breeds. In speech and indignities and indignities and actions not addressed, there is nourishment on the same soil. We must never lose our sense of urgency. We must never pretend to be equal as long as this is the case. We are to condemn whether it is a word or a deed that is directed to humiliate and flatter women. And we are to speak for peace and support the real victims of the war, which are always civilians, especially women and children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u19	A respectable president. Selling banks is not a simple task, much less when the bank is owned by a nation that is damaged by a collapse of the bank and an extremely failure of banking sales at the turn of the century. In such circumstances, trust is a absolute password, trust in preparation, trust in sales, trust in buyers, and confidence in the fact that honesty is being done on a level. Trust is a key concept. Reverence has a clear view that the government should not be all - out in bank business. So we've supported the sale at Iceland Bank. At the same time, we've been asking questions about trust, honesty, and careful tactics to keep the government on the subject because the personal developments are driving back into the decades. We do not want history to repeat itself, and some mysterious German bank curtain up as a covert in some kind of hide-and-collar politics and commerce. Happily, nothing seems so dramatic today, but unfortunately, this sale cannot be given without proof of health, since we should be making the same demands of efficiency and transparency regardless of the size of the items sold in the bank each time. They need to be informed about the reason why small people who are not at all able to qualify as professional investors were allowed to buy status rents for tens of millions with discounts. All of this needs to be clear and very convincing, or trust will collapse in the process, and it will damage further sales. The news that the Bank Management Board feels that they cannot provide information about those who bought this nation's property with a discount on the bank secrets. It will collapse our demand for transparency. How could anyone possibly draw up information about those who buy from us? The country sells something, but it doesn't have anything to do with who bought it. It's against the rules. In other words, the preparation and construction work were no better than this. Of course, it doesn't work. If the government and we are all going to accept that it is not relevant to who buys our bank, then we can take the passwords and key terms of every bank business and every bank sale and throws it out into the ocean because it is not trustable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-06-63.u20	A respectable president. Budgeting is a policy plan on how the Ministry intends to protect the financial resources of the environment. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the local tribunals, public security and rights of individuals. Together, the emphasis is expressed in a financial program that is being heard under the Ministry of Justice for three main objectives: first, to improve service to the public in the country and to increase the availability of the citizens of the land regardless of their habitat. The changes in digital solutions and electronic services will be of great importance in shortening the period and speed of all court treatments, whether in the case of a judicial hearing or in the case of a judicial hearing. Second, to improve effectiveness and harmonisation of anti-surgical measures. It is possible to create within office to form districts, courts, or polices to increase the flexibility in the processing of the cases regardless of location and to ensure greater use of taxpayers' funds. Third, to look seriously at the policy that has been established by the government, as shown by policy-making programmes of 20222/22036 submitted at the General Assembly to promote public service throughout the country by moving to strengthen services as best possible. There is reason to rather tear down the subject matter of each subject to help clarify the changes that are taking place in harmony with what I stress. The overall budget of the topic field is maintained throughout the programme period. Yet, there are ambitious plans for digital transformation that the courts have to finance within the budgets of the topic field. A recent report by the State Reconnaissance on the number, size, and size of the state's institutions leads to eight regional courts and, despite being thrown into the same budget, each member of them is independent. At the lowest court, there is only one employee besides a judge. There is a plan to examine this carefully, a possibility of a single court of affairs, thus equaling the pressures, creating equal opportunities for work regardless of the individual needs and circumstances and to draw closer to the equality of the user. In line with the emphasis of a government contract, during a period of time the existing financial programmes focus on promoting law enforcement so that its care meets the needs of society. It'll even be that way. carried out by temporary efforts to increase the number of students at university police school as well as with increased donations to deal with acts of sexual abuse and organized crime. In this case, I would like to find that in the middle of the 2022, I have to decide whether or not to continue renting helicopters or to go elsewhere, such as offering out the air traffic or buying used machines. Changes in the work programme's productions of public and legal security are divided into three and relate to all the priorities of the Treaty. First, temporary contributions are being made to increase the number of police schools, secondly because of acts against sexual abuse and third, due to action against organized violations. The improvements that appeared to us in a financial program are an additional large amount of donations that came into this budget year. A reduction in the number of productions between the years is mainly explained by a 1% economy requirement and this will result in an update of investment contributions due to implementation at the co-ordination centre of the reactants and the Little Test in accordance with the plans for them. The provision of the financial rights of individuals, religion, and the management of the Ministry of Justice is somewhat unchanged. Increased donations are expected to be used for the Schengen procedure and to the Peritoneal Protection Agency. Then 180 million are expected. K. will be used to protect digital change in the county in 2023 and 2024. With a breakdown of jurisdiction, with a possible change in the county work centres, and with increased emphasis on digital services, there are hopes that different kinds of expertise can be developed at every place that serves the whole country and can take on increased government projects. Each work station should continue to be a strong workplace in the province, a better service to citizens, a more efficient business and management. Thus, a respectable president, we are looking forward to the changes that are now being carried out in all of the department's principal offices associated with this increased production of digital technology and electronic services. There will be a revolution in the environment of the Ministry. The Ministry has been at the head of other schemes for this induction, and we are putting an extra emphasis on it and the messages to change the different types of facilities accordingly.
