ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u1	The president wants to report that he has received word from a group of members from Floki of the people about the change in committees, cr. Section 16. Congress, so that Eyjólfur the Year man's Ármannsson takes his place as the head of Iceland's Department of the Westnoric Council rather than the Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u2	The President has received a letter from the Minister of Justice asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 316, police experience and education, from Gísli Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u3	The president wants to suggest that after the unsubstantiated inquiry, there will be a discussion of 4th on the program, a fishing regime, a Fishing Room check, etc., the prime minister of food. Advertisements on the 2nd and 3th part of the program, financial support to less operators and requisition grants, will be out of the window. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. At the same time, the president wants to assume that about the same time. 13 According to Article 61, the prime minister is expected to make a brief report to the council. Congress, and at the end of the declaration by prime minister, the presidents of other political parties or their surrogates will have the opportunity to comment on the declaration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u4	To answer, Minister of Economics and Economics, Ministers of wood, Environment, Energy and Climate, Minister of Foreign Affairs, university, industrial and innovation, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u5	A respectable president. The high - frequency of the Ukrainen night fills you with terror. World law broken, European security threatened by an invasion of Russia, and civil society is dead. The government's response was good, and it was good to hear representatives of the government denounce the attacks in the morning. I'd like to have a place to say to the highest. The minister of justice on the people's matters while fleeing, for we now need to put forth effort to control; humanity and protection. Since 2014 the Red Cross of Iceland has served a public service for people in search of protection, not for their own interests or personal financial interests, but for humanitarian purposes that identify the work of the Red Cross in a international Union. Now it's got the highest. Unprecedented Minister of Justice decided not to renew a service contract with the Red Cross. It is reported that after the Red Cross took over, there has been a period of treatment, which has been the chief objective of the government in the seminary. By the Red Cross, there has been an abundance of knowledge and perspective that has benefited governments. There are still 750 individuals in search of protection at the Red Cross and no contract in force from 30 April. A government that constantly talks about efficiency and much less humane is about to upset the group of lawsuits, while few lawyers with knowledge and lawyers who have dedicated themselves to a group of these past few years. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice in the cause of the frequent night: Is he ready to take Ukraine immediately out of the list of so - called secure states? Will he be willing to step in for the arrival of the Ukrainks, fleeing to the country? Can we imagine that the government is stepping forward with what we have to control, not military authority, but humanity and shelter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u6	A respectable president. That's right, we've decided at the Ministry of Justice not to renew the contract that has been in force with Iceland's Red Cross to service those who are looking for protection. The contract has included social services and public service. The change in the annual social services shifted to the second Ministry, and the contract ran out over a year, was extended to one year, and was based on an invitation at its time. During this breakthrough in which the ministry's role becomes a big change, there is reason to reconsider how these matters will be handled. Of course, there is a false claim that there is some confusion in this series of subjects. We will soon report this week, or next week at the latest, how these matters will be accomplished in the future. We will make sure that the legal services the Ministry is in place and there will be no interference with those coming here. It's been a brief period of treatment, hasn't it? Senator. That's right. It's mainly because of the changes in the Ministry's work regulations in the processing of applications for citizens' rights in Iceland. For one thing, there has been a brief period of treatment. Do we want to take Ukraine off a list of secure countries? Well, there must be a review now. It is true that humanity and shelter should be our hallmark. Like other countries in Europe and other parts of the world, we need to accept our responsibilities. We now face a new stage, new danger, and we must share in it, just under the merits of humanity and security that Iceland can provide. But we always need to have it foreground, in the work we take, that we can handle it in a decent way so that those who come here and we take under our wing get the services we have to perform so that they can live here in our country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u7	A respectable president. Regarding the fact that there was a period of treatment for escape in search of protection, there is nothing to do with application for civil rights. I think we must call for the Minister of the jury to know a little bit of the lawsuits that he hears before he comes here in a pita with unfounded letters. These two, the development of these two, have no connection. It's good to hear an explicit statement. Minister of Justice that Ukraine will fall from the list of secure states and I expect to see the release of the Ministry's homepage right now because otherwise we cannot speak. Minister credible. This has to happen right now, topv. Minister. [[The president calls.]] Ukraine is not a secure state. We'll see that in world news. We'll see that in national news. [[The president calls.]] We must take action now and provide shelter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u8	A respectable president. For the duration of treatment only. Of course, it affects how the agency who does these jobs, whether it is a citizen's rights application or an application for protection, practicality, and the ability to use their resources. Of course, this is linked together, the same agency that works on the information and management of these issues. Regarding Ukraine, I simply reiterate what I said: We face a changed world scene. Hence, we must act, and we will consider this. There is a meeting in the National Security Council later today that will include these issues. magazines. We will look at what our neighboring nations, fellow nations, do and fulfill our obligations, as I expect other nations to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u9	A respectable president. What growth increases in the past few weeks have been doing is greatly increasing the burden of households, which, of course, becomes more severe to the worse because they have no financial resources to cope with all these increases. Furthermore, this is a clean, intelligent system of property from the homes to the banks, which, to be said in a mild way, has nothing to do with more money. In addition, in spite of the promise of a financial minister that it would not happen, in a further 6% inflation is not to be expected. There are no measures yet to protect the household from what lies ahead. The action would have to be carried out is neither complicated nor numerous. The government needs three main measures: they need to take the mortgage team from the index, ask the bank to perform social responsibility and freeze insurance on loans and rents for at least 1 year. Let us consider some of the reasons and implications of these simple measures. Taking the staff out of the index. Inflation is 5.7%, but without housing, it would be 3.7%. With this simple operation, the inflation and the inflation would have a chain effect, such as rising rent prices and interest. To require the banks to show community responsibility and to reduce the growth and charge of customers as well as to reduce the need for profit. Flirting insurance on loans and renting all this year. It is normal for both banks and landlords to not be the sole exception to a drop in income due to the results of a pandemic and the abnormal benefit of the situation. Homes, especially rent markets, do not depend on these increases. This is the very least that can be done to protect the families. Only these simple measures would soften the beatings and difficulties of the homes, thus helping to cope with the horticultural events that are difficult enough. The head of the advance party, the highest. Web Minister, has recently spoken of taking the staff from the index. Will the minister of finance agree with him? When, then, is action to be expected? Are there measures in preparation that will protect homes from the consequences of Covid-19?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u10	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. In terms of the fact that inflation is a threat to a standard of living, especially to the most lucrative people. This is our experience, and our story tells us that we especially need to consider those who have mentioned among us when inflation strikes us, as it has been recently. That is why it is so important that what we are doing here and what the Suldaban decides to do with his means of communication, and it also has some harmony with what happens at the labour market. However, in this context, I would like to keep it in order that the status of the households has never been stronger. That is the foundation on which we stand when we see a growing inflation. If you look at the pay card, it increased by 7.5% last year. The pay cost of produced unity is estimated to increase by 7% this year. This means more between normal people working. And when they say that the funds have moved to the banking system from its homes, we need to examine both sides of the home's balance account. It's true that inflation goes up credit. But what have the possessions gone up? They have increased approximately twice as much as your debts. I often hear here about the increase in homes'debt of some 500 billion, but property has increased by 1,000 billion. Let us not at this point make too much of the general problem that I felt was a struggle with. A senator makes it evident that homes are already in serious trouble or that they have such problems that all payments and rents need to be taken care of all this year. This is making too much of a problem. What we need to do is keep a close eye on those whose feet are weak. The financial system is very capable of responding, and I cannot help but believe that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u11	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. Yes, the home's own financial status has improved on paper. It is because property has gone up - to - date, not because homes'income or their debts to financial companies have dropped. It's just something that doesn't matter how many homes we make each month. People still have to live, and if people decide to sell their property, they'll be more expensive. I'd like to also say that averages don't tell the whole story. We're talking rent and insurance, and the worst are in there. There have been reports that rent rose by 30,000 dollars. and that was two months ago that I received that information, so it has increased even more and is probably still going to rise. This money does not exist in these homes, it just does not exist. And how does the secretary of finance plan to make up for this in the fall when it has to, at least, make up for it? 50,000 bucks. an increase to meet this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said just moments ago that it was so serious that property was moving from the homes to the banks. When I point out that this is not the case, both sides of the matter need to be examined, to have the homes growing much faster than the debt line, it's up here, and to say it doesn't matter. Then let's just turn to something else. I also pointed out that there had never been a greater income in the household. We need to examine proportions such as this. what is the share of the provision of the households to cover the mortgages? That's what matters. My entry into this discussion is: Yes, let's keep an eye on those whose hands are mentioned, but there are a number of people in a place of shelter, especially on the price of long - term loans, where the burden of payment per month does not go up because of the loans that go up. Then there is a candidate in the other word. There is a paradox in this lawsuit, wanting to eliminate the loans that under these circumstances provide just the biggest shelter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u13	A respectable president. During recent interviews with the media, this past 16th of February, the highest has been reported. Minister of Justice says he's, along with police officers and police relations, checking to see if there's gonna be a nuclear launch in this country. Among reasons, he says, there has been an increase in the number of police assignments involving weapons, so it is necessary for the police to respond by what he calls an appropriate way. A pepper spray or a bat is not enough, but it needs to pick up a battery of guns. The Amnesty International organization has already warned of the use of such weapons in this country, where serious accidents and deaths have resulted from their use. Studies with such weapons have shown, e.g. that over a ten - year period, in the United States, 500 deaths have been recorded as being caused by such weapons and that 90% of those who died were unarmed. Their use is particularly dangerous to people with underlying diseases, which are usually impossible for the police to know if they are present. The possibility of abuse of these weapons is even higher than on conventional guns, since users are often convinced of their lack of harm. Not to be overlooked is also the fact that individuals who are usually shot with an electrical gun by police in lands where use of them is widespread, or even psychotic, to individuals with preexisting psychiatric disorders. So I ask a minister: What basis, diagnosis and risk assessment will he lay the groundwork for deciding if a battery of electronic weapons should be adopted in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u14	A respectable president. It is true that the environment in which the police live, in order to protect the city, and to protect themselves, has changed dramatically in recent years. We can see that in a short time, the U.S. Special Forces, armed weapons, has increased by a dozen percent, and we must act in some way. I've had that message, including.... from the police, and ahead are meeting with the National Police Association, along with police officers and other officials, where I will review and appreciate these matters. That's right, and I've also noticed that a representative of Amnesty International in Iceland has taken up and warned about it, and there are others who do, and there are certainly views that must be considered and taken into account. The other is so different that the statistics surrounding this need to be examined in a broad context. In terms of accidents and accidents, e.g. Using a battery gun, it must be compared to accidents and accidents that occur with other police force to the appropriate person. Numbers I've seen, including. in reports from European countries that have authorized the use of electric guns, show that there is a decimal reduction in physical damage between police and police users at any given time, when using an electric gun, as compared to using other measures such as bats. It is obvious that fighting leads to body ions, fights that happen when the police use power, and thus bats, can lead to body ions. There are statistics that demonstrate this and I haven't seen from Amnesty statistics about the difference, e.g. on these two. That's what I'll look at, and I'll even lay it on. the key to making a decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u15	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Interestingly, the U.S. Federal Association reports that when attackers are armed with firearms, electrical guns are not useful. So the electrons are reserved for those who are armed with handarms such as knives or even unarmed. If a person is actually going to harm a policeman, wouldn't he simply weapons himself with a dangerous weapon, such as a firearm, know that a police officer is going to be armed with a battery gun? How will a minister prevent an arms race, which will inevitably occur if he orders a general recording of a machine gun?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u16	A respectable president. Although cases involving firearms, e.g. The police Special Forces and, in fact, police detail, have increased, as we have seen, we do not yet feel that there is a reason for this. It's, I think, the opinion of everyone I've discussed on these matters that it's not time to have a general police firearm with guns. However, there has been increased emphasis on the training of every policeman in the use of firearms. During the past six or seven years, there has been a revolution. There is access to firearms in police cars that need special access for use if necessary. We're here discussing some intermediate level, something that can guarantee the security of police officers who have expressed their fears of the changed circumstances, and hence their primary task, to protect the security of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u17	A respectable president. I participated in my first district week, where we members of the Parliament had an important opportunity to meet people in our district. We talked to local authorities about challenges they face, which vary in various ways but also many about exactly the same ones, no matter where they are going. Interestingly, most of the subjects discussed were points that concern the state, a lack of government funds, so that a certain group of lawsuits are cared for by some sense. Increased burdens have been placed on rural society, and then I'm talking about basic schools, the issues of disabled, high school, health care at home, and I'm sure I could continue, Mr. President. Only in the case of disabled people are missing about 9 billion, and we recently heard the mayor of Hafnarfjörður say that the local community would have to be in debt to meet its citizens and to do well in the affairs of the disabled. Of course, it is not acceptable for lawgiver to place increased burden on rural society and not to follow financial support. We also discussed the schools, e.g. nursery school, now scheduled for rural bridges between 12 months and 12 months of age. Where's the money coming from? In basic schools, we see an increase in school costs without separation and as a result of children with a specific problem. There's no funding. I'm impressed, Mr. President, I'm not pleased to stand here again and say that there's no budget, but we're under obligation to listen to our communities. I'm asking the highest. wood minister: How will he react? This is not a new problem, and the government has had over four years to solve it. Mr. President, how are you going to make it better?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the opportunity to discuss this and agree with him that the voter is very entertaining. I'm sorry, I didn't make it this week because of Covid's disease, but I know from my own experience that these are very informative trips and that we get an enormous amount of information in this comparison between rural society, e.g. In our great district, the Southern District, like the other districts of Iceland. It is very strange to set up this matter so that some government at one time should solve the entire problem of rural society and testify. to the agreement that was made 25 years ago on the transfer of the elementary school and that some rural societies have recently made that there is still an unsolved problem 25 years later, in which the state should enter. The rural population of this country has independent income institutions, different from, for example. a number of rural areas in the North, where a contract is made annually for the cost of rural society. We also know that many cases, especially when they come from members of the council, are not particularly costly, especially if they fail to fall on rural communities. Thus, over the years many other types of rural areas have fallen. We, however, cooperate with a project on this on a business committee. We now have an assignment to discuss these matters in view of the Senate resolution of the expansion of the government phase between the state and the local society. I know that last night's meeting has a lot to do with it. There's some local elections this spring, so I don't know if we can make a deal about this. But if we're going to throw everything in and say that there's only a government to find out about this, we need to start by asking, "Do the rural communities still want their own farms, or do we want to go the North American way where we deal on the cost of society? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u19	Thank you very much. Minister for this input. He may have hung himself at the elementary school, which is, of course, on the table of the local community. But the picture's changed. Slice without separate diagnosis was not available at the time of the transfer. Work time was not available. There was no reduction in the number of children in the class. So it's obvious that there's no money in there. But because we're talking about the work of the state and of the community, I'd like to mention the health care that is, of course, not the custody of a community, but the custody of the State. In the South, we live with about a year or so. 4,000 people drive the Smokey Lane every day. Does Ministers reasonably believe that older South American citizens are going to receive such an invitation to seek medical help in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u20	A respectable president. Just so we'll just finish the discussion. If we're going to talk here about the switch in income and the change in business, we're supposed to stop arguing about something that happened 25 years ago. We're just supposed to admit that over 25 years, things have clearly developed, but that includes the independent income stocks of the rural community with the economic growth and expansion that have taken place, I'm not talking about real estate fees. Let us stop arguing about something that happened 25 years ago and expect some government to be involved in this time of the end. It's been 25 years since. Senator. Then we have another project that has recently been negotiated, and it's a little weird that it's always happening so that our rural society will be back in a few years, after they've agreed on an assignment, saying, "Hey, that's crazy. It was the discussion about the elementary school at the time, I thought it was over. Today, it is the discussion of the affairs of disabled people. We need to find a better balance between the new emphasis, the new law, the new expenses the council places on the countryside, and calculate it into the income industry. [[The president calls.]] I agree with that. That's what's missing. I then agree, of course, that we need to promote health care on the Southnes, no question about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u21	Mr. President. Today there is a sad day in Europe. The sea is a war in Europe for the first time since World War II. It will be with consequences that we do not know who will be. The reactions of Western countries need to be clear and hard, and in response it is important that Iceland does not succumb to responsibility and that all of us make use of our connections and influences to adjust the way of peace. The point of the next few days is that the nations will do everything in their power to stop this Russian invasion, and it is vital that our allies and we be even clearer with Russia. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of the foreign affairs of the international community is strong enough to influence this situation. How far is the highest. Ministers that the European Union and Western countries are ready to march when it comes to economic pressure? It has to be said that, as it is now, Pútín doesn't seem to take much advantage of these economic pressures, and then the question is, Do we have something in our sleeves? What measures are considered to be highest. Minister to the European Union and NATO need to seize?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that with what. A senator that this is a very sad day and the events of an overnight publisher of someone I think have allowed us all to hope that we would not have to experience, and most of all, that there would be no need for civilians in Ukraine. What's enough? If I only knew, I would say it out loud. I hope that the European Union, the United States, the British, Japan and others who have reported economic pressures are ready to go further. I know that the European Union is discussing the next major step that would then be taken with great weight and these global economic pressures. We have made it clear to the Icelandic government that we are on their side. The cost of doing what we can to protect our freedom without going into direct conflict - we are, of course, ready to carry it. What matters here is that we stand together, that we say in a loud and clear voice what we are, where we sit, and where we do what we can where we can do it. We're an armyless people. We have responsibilities, we have figurative responsibilities. We're here with areas, equipment, support, service, contracts, which are important, and I like to feel that the countries around us know about it, respect it, and we're filled with participants in it, and we really have a role to play. I have to take advantage of this opportunity to thank you for the parapolitic community that has so far been in a foreign business committee that I find very much to be concerned with. [[The president calls.]] I think it is a great honor to know that we are in a very clear position when it comes to these serious events, likely one of the most serious events since the second world war, to which we are looking to this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u23	Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I agree with her, and I don't doubt that our minds have a nation attacked in an illegal way. As a result, I'd like to ask if the highest. A minister can evaluate how and whether the military importance of Iceland will increase following these events in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u24	Mr. President. Early this morning was the NATO fixed-up meeting, and what may happen is that there's a strategy to be used, a defense plan. It would then and could mean, even regardless of whether it would be done, increased equipment, increased presence, increased monitoring, and an important area there. Our tropical location here makes it possible that there will be increased facilities, increased surveillance, and further reactions, such as anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u25	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 550, a case of the 386th, of the change in various fish control laws, of Fishing Room monitoring, etc. This is a change in the law of No. 57/1996, on law No. 116/2006, on fishing management, and on law No. 22/1998, the fishing and construction of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend. At the end of 2018, the State's review of a report to the General on Fishing Agency monitoring where it was thought that there would be an attack on various reforms at the Agency for effective and effective monitoring. As indicated in the report, the bill is a part of this work. In March 2019, a marine dignitary and agricultural minister appointed a project to improve the control of the fishing resource, and at the same time a panel with representatives of all council groups at the General, institutions, and major marine espionage, while the report of this project was released in June 2020. The bill suggests the following: First, the increased information of the Fish Room to a date and a clearer treatment for their stress management, secondly, increased sources for the electronic surveillance of the Fish Room, and thirdly permission for official releases of stolen or revocations. The bill expects a stronger fish company's authority to collect a day's fine, but in the current law it is permitted to place day-to-day tickets on nonrequire reports on the provision and processing of fish. It is suggested that the Fish Room be allowed to make a date in more cases, on anyone who neglects to provide the information that the Agency should provide according to law, such as the information on a ship - and - raise trade. In that case, the Agency should first challenge anyone who neglects to provide information to correct and allow the individual to inform about the reasons for information. The trade room should then guide the subject to the fact that the date-time fine has not been submitted to the current product information at the end of the day. It is suggested that uninhabitable goods do not fall. Is this to make sure that the device has an appropriate sedative and precautionary effect? It is suggested that a date should be less than 30,000 dollars. For each starting day, the highest will be 1.5 million. The bill presents a source of information to the Fish Room to promote monitoring of electronic monitoring, including the use of so - called fliers or shrinks that is thought to increase epithelial development and strengthen monitoring. It is considered necessary to strengthen your sources for electronic crediting and cameras monitoring. It is suggested that the fish lab monitors be allowed access to information generated by electronic monitoring of the land base in order to monitor the level of resources. The Agency is then proposed to provide the Agency with a warrant for the implementation of electronic surveillance information, and it is additionally suggested that the provision of temporary regulations allowing Fish Office to cooperate with agents on the use of cameras on ships for monitoring. Is this in line with the proposal that the Agency should be provided with clear legislation in this subject? It is suggested that the warrants of the Fishing Room be made clear in order to reveal publicly decisions about the loss of fishing and the revocation of the GDP. It aims to further increase the transparency of Fish Labs as well as the awareness for those working in the article and providing proper attention to both them and the Fishing Office. The agreement on the warrants of the Fish Room to use electronic surveillance was made to ensure that the 71st. Iceland's constitution on privacy and the rules were consistent with the laws on personal protection and processing of personal information, No. 90/2018. The bill was written at the procrastinator and innovation Ministry in cooperation with Fish Institutes, National Guard and main economists. In the foundation it was based on proposals made by the aforementioned project management. As the bill was released on February 26, 2021, in the consultation of the government on the island site, S62. It was submitted to the 151th legislature, but it did not succeed. Last January, during my Ministry Day, it was so decided to present the bill with a change in format so that laws on government fines and in-laws have fallen away with a new committee. magazine on them again. I intend to introduce a government memo on the issues in which a government conference's work plan will be traced, followed by this work plan in a government consultation. But as I have previously stated from this platform, I feel very strongly that when it comes to improving the system for justice, fairness, and greater reconciliation, it is a basis for transparency. This, of course, means that property connections and positions of different enterprises are owned by the same parties, etc. as mentioned earlier in other parts of the program. A respectable president. I have been tracking the main points of this bill, and I would like to refer to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After 1st. I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u26	A respectable president. I wanted to thank you very much. Minister for transporting bill to further control of Fish House. Me and the highest. Ministers have discussed this at a meeting of committees how important it is that the monitoring of the Fishing Room is strong and that there are good legislations behind everything there is. Then you look a little bit at it, especially that it came very sad news, I would say, before the year of much departure. The surveillance that the Fishing Agency had done with technology would have shown that a evaporation was up to ten times as much as we thought it would be, on the basis of how this surveillance would be done, would have to make sure that it would not affect the personal rights and the like, it would be well taken care of. It is a joy to see that many of these are being addressed in this bill. But I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to help focus not only on improving the legal ground but also on economic foundations so that effective monitoring of fish fishing can be maintained. Just as an example, the attraction that the Fish Room has been using for the follow-up of an event, only about 40 to 50 miles [40,650 km] away from the country. I know there's a more intense reduction, e.g. D.A.L.D., but they haven't been used so far for observation. We also know that many of our larger fishing ships are fishing outside of this. This is not only important due to decomposition but also due to general surveillance. Is Fishing in the Right Areas? We're supposed to be able to use technology, either shrink or otherwise, to create even more powerful satellites with higher resolution and to be able to monitor almost real time where ships are sailing. And it's important that we update the law and the law on what technology and what else brings out. And I just declare it, as I did at the meeting of the employment committee when it's the highest level. A minister introduced his language records and discussed them. on this matter, that we will work well on a professional committee to make sure this is going well. Just make sure the funds come too. It is not enough for us to know that we can observe, that we need to pay attention, and that's why we need funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank the Minister for bringing this matter into the council. We had it on the pro board last year, and here's a very important thing to do. Of course, it's very important that Fishing Room has the resources to monitor an event, I think everyone agrees on that. I'm aware that many builders are concerned about how much ousting is. Of course, throughout history there has always been some sort of evaporation of ruined fish and such, that is normal. Sadly, though, we know that there is more. I think it's important for this job, and when the committee begins to consider this case, trying to look after the level of embassies that are being done by an exile group as far as possible. Many reliefs, which can only take place so close to shore, for observation, are keeping track of certain sizes of ships, and then there are ships that are farther and deeper. It takes larger and more powerful tools to keep track of them, and they do exist, of course. We know of the fact that such ships have been removed before the departure, even by a plane, and so the National Guard has been looking at the powerful attractions. Of course, most ships, if not all, are in position to have a location of location fishing, are now being observed only in the country as to where people are hunting. I think that these matters and so many other things about the seabed need to continue to repair and improve, making them more general peace in the community. It needs to simplify many things, so it is obvious to the general population and citizens how to do things. I know that this patrol in ports and other such things -- I know it's controversial that a fish lab has access to these data and stuff. These are things the committee goes through and I trust her very well in it, she's well planned, and I know a minister is interested in getting these matters to dock and be the means to improve the job of the Fish Lab and, of course, to give the sailors and the preparations that I think she calls for, as we all do in life. We want to live by rules, and we want rules, and they are for us to follow them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u28	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, and I would like to come to some of the points at the end of the discussion before the discussion will be considered. A professional health committee. First, I firmly agree with what has been said here on the importance of the refinement of the law. It's very important. Only in the media has the amount of the day's fines presented in the bill, 30,000 k. For each starting day. This amount is in line with the proposal of the project, and the committee can, of course, look and wonder if this amount has sufficient power. There is something that needs to be considered, and it is not the amount that is cut down in stone by the Ministry. Rather, it is part of the Congress treatment. I would also like to make the point in my history that the protection issues are, of course, very important, but no less so the very thought expressed here in the case of the members of Congress that it is natural that an act of delinquency is illegal. The monitoring is about providing adequate resources to prevent these fractures, of course, but we need to prevent these fractions by cooperating with those who come in such a way that we should deal with the marine resource with respect and without evaporating to the sea. It's very important. Here, too, were given views that depend on the range of the lamps and that are actually part of the fleet, and I agree with that view. It is of great importance that we can use more powerful technology, but more importantly, with progressive cooperation with the quality, observation of others, as well as those far away from the country. Finally, at the end of the discussion, I also want to mention that I already have, and immediately after the end of the last year, strengthen a fish lab for development and technology with special funding from the Ministry's allowance. But I trust that in view of the discussion here, and especially the general political solidarity of these priorities, the council will respond when I go looking for extra funds to finance this, so that we are doing well to care for these vital aspects of the marine road. - By the way, thank you for your fine conversation, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u29	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50/1993, with subsequent changes, for abduction. Besides me, these are the carriers of this bill Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. The first section of the bill reads: ...after the 27th C.E. The law's coming up with a new story, along with a headline, saying, "Adventment." A charge should be given to those who employ lawsuits in recognition of damage due to physical injury or in order to demand payment on damage due to physical injury, despite the conditions of 1 mg. 126.g. the management of private matters is not met, as the overall income of the individual has been below the average total income during the second year of the calendar year according to figures in Iceland's Habitat. Another area in which there is a general rule of puerperism. Another article reads: "It is the law that has already come into force. The bill was submitted to the 151st legislation (National 96), but it did not succeed. The bill is now submitted unchanged. The subject of this bill is found in the bill submitted to the 150th legislature (430th case) but not to be decomposed. It is often a heavy burden for individuals to appeal to judicial matters because of the physical damage they have suffered. Thus, they may prefer to accept the compensations that insurance companies may initially offer and yield to the rights they feel are theirs. In order to stem this business problem and thereby improve the security of those who have suffered physical harm, it is suggested that they be able to appeal matters in recognition of liability or pay damages attributable to physical damage by emptying their rights to failure. When people suffer physical loss and loss of their health, that is a serious issue. It affects not just the individual but the entire family. In a state of justice and in a state where we believe that we are in accordance with ethical principles, we should not have made sure that the worst in our society can bring justice to the courts for expenses. It tells itself that when a person who is hit by a traffic accident has to seek his rights in order to obtain compensation from an insurance company, he is not in the same position as the insurance company with vast financial resources and a number of lawyers. The person, of course, needs legal assistance, but this is sadly limited to the lawyers who would really like to represent a court case in order to achieve the right and complete benefits for the loss of the body. It tells itself that in this fight there is a very inflexible situation, so we must see to it that the person gets abduction because if he gets the rapport and then wins the case, he returns to the state's fund. So, in itself, gambling is not a very dangerous situation. Sad to say, there have been many cases in which individuals have come to terms with far less compensation than they have had, both in order to finish things and also because of the fear and position of the person in whom they have been working, after they have had their work done because of a long period of physical loss and in the family's financial situation. We must also realize that we are paying one of the highest guarantees in Europe. It also includes a corresponding signal that insurance companies are affected by any damage to a certain amount of money in the so - called credit or insurance debt to meet the costs expected to cause further damage in the process. It may arise, and it has happened very often, that certain things are negotiated, and then it turns out that they are far from improving the damage done to the individual. The person is left in poor health, the financial situation is ruined, and there is the possibility that even the individual is in disability, resulting in poverty, and there is no reliant hope to the insurance company because of its completion. He has no, or in theory very little right to get a divorce in these matters today because the rules of neglect are so strict that hardly even those who are in disability can escape there. I know from my own experience that it doesn't matter how low your income is. Then there is some other way to deny the person the right to a penchant that tells you that the system is thus defending insurance companies from damage efforts. This makes it not just the insurance company that is in control and that has the capital and the lawyers but that the government system has the right to ensure that insurance companies have this right and that they are, in effect, protecting their superior standing with the person. In recent years, discussions have developed that it is important to ensure the victims of child abuse and the victims of sexual abuse to a degree that does not provide financial burdens for those who are unable to seek justice in private matters. In such cases, the agreed bill of this would clear up a significant requirement for a scaffolding. There is also a large pot broken, and this is exactly what we need and should emphasize, that all who face domestic violence, sexual abuse, or other physical abuse have no right to seek justice and bring legal cases into court. While unable to do so, in many cases it is because the person has a violation of the benefits he is entitled to. We know, and we have now seen in particular the growth of both domestic violence and sexual abuse. So I say, often it has been necessary, but now there is a great need for us to deal with these issues and to correct these matters. It is very strange and kind of strange that we should establish laws about the rights of those who are abused, sexually abused, or other physical harm, that they are entitled to do so, but we do not guarantee it. We are to make sure that in order to get their rights, they can seek all the rights they have to bring before the courts and get the exact results they have rights. As the situation is today, it is so far away, and that is why we need to change this. As we have seen earlier, I have tried to get to these matters in the past. This is the third time I'm trying to get this case through, and it shows, I think, in black and white, the views that are going on with rulers at any given time, like the current government and the previous government. This shows that she is not interested in giving this person the right thing to do. Then you ask yourself, " Why? ' Why are we giving people the right to be reformed because of domestic violence, sexual abuse, or other physical harm, but are not going to see to it that they get the right? Then there must be another view, and all I am is that it is merely taking sides with insurance companies, those who resort to violence, whether domestic violence or sexual abuse, and that is a serious matter, or that is simply preventing these individuals from being responsible for the harm they have caused. In the general rules for abduction per law No. 91/1191 for personal treatment, scr. Regulation No. 45/2008 on the conditions of the apocalyptic and pacing committees, with subsequent changes, are set under strict conditions for the poor financial standing of candidates for the elational, very strict, not to allow anyone to escape. With the bill, it is suggested that, in terms of the types of judicial cases, the overall income of the applicant in the second year of the calendar was covered under the average total income of the country in that same year according to numbers from Iceland's Hagues Office. This is very important. We don't go very loud because by 2019 the average total squared out according to the economic standards was 5,677,000 a.m. Thus, the new rule applies to those with a low income, although these are higher than the current income criteria of the aforementioned Regulation. Since this is not a very high income we are talking about, it gives most and especially those in the lower income phases a chance of achieving a scaffolding and achieving justice if necessary to bring legal cases into court. The elements of the bill are in line with 3 mg. 126.g. the management of private matters requiring that abduction be added to what is recommended in other laws. Apart from the general conditions for abduction at 1.mg. 126.g. The laws mentioned above apply to XX. section one of the same guidelines for abjection on the basis of the instructions given in the bill. I really hope that this bill will be fulfilled, and I hope the government sees its error in these matters and goes on to agree with this bill, and as a result, those who have really been victimized by domestic violence, sexual abuse, physical harm due to road accidents, work accidents, or other accidents will have the right to be completely unsatisfyed, and therefore will be improved, as the law says. We've created a law that says that the person should be completely compensated for his injury, but he doesn't get it if he's negotiated maybe 1/3, 1/5, or 1/10 of the compensation, and he's set up to the wall and said: "You're either gonna have to take it or not get anything, because he doesn't have a chance to say, "No, I want to get paid for it, I want to bring the case into court, I'm going to apply for a call. In most cases the person knows that there is a high risk, so he thinks: " It's better to get 1/3, it's better to get 1/5 and accept it than not to get anything. It's a terrible situation where sick people are put in. And don't forget that at the same time, children in this way often make sure that the family's financial situation and that in many cases, they are being sent directly to an empty home. It sucks that we are in our state of justice with a law that is only for people who are able to defend themselves in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for this good bill, that's quite a word for the time being spoken. I hear he's talked about this before and even twice, that this is the third time if I got it right. This is a very important matter, though, and especially in the discussion that society is having with regard to domestic violence, sexual abuse. As we try to control such matters, we come to the question: Do we not want to try to maneuver matters so that as many as possible to use the system set up by society, like the judiciary, and the systems where they can look for justice and get their way? But as mentioned earlier, it's always a question of money. We have been discussing sexual offenses, the alleged offenses people have committed, and have not trusted to represent the courts because these are difficult to prove. As we have considered, in discussions about these matters over the past few months, it takes courage and courage to do so. People are anxious, and they do not trust in the courts in this delicate matter. But it also results in the price of making a case for judgment. You obviously never know the outcome and who needs to pay for it. By extending these extreme conditions, as shown in the bill, we give the less - fortunate ones, those who have suffered some type of physical or mental damage, the physical damage that often brings much spiritual harm - the opportunity to take care of themselves to the judgment system. That's the system we've created to solve, whether it's wrong, guilty, or innocent, and what the benefits are. So we're talking about this in a larger context, giving people this opportunity. It is a large group, poor people, who simply do not have the birth, and not the spiritual birth, to take this risk. They don't trust in it, but they might sit down with the insurance company, and they only accept a fraction of what they might have received, they might have been in damages and thus convicted. So it's complicated, and I think this is a good bill in that we are getting so involved in helping people who are harmed by their rights and that they have the courage and courage, especially those who have suffered the harm, such as violence, physical harm, domestic violence. In this case, the person is often broken down spiritually, if we take, for example. Examples of domestic violence that may have been chronic, so we may be looking at someone who has lost trust, not only in his circumstances but also in his family violence, but also in the matter of asking himself: " Will the judicial system of this country stand by me, will they listen to me? There's a lot under there. As I know, if I think about it, it has been all over the years. It was the time for the apocalyptic system to be extended, followed by the year when it was under attack. The situation is that there are tremendous conditions. People have to have a very poor financial situation, and I guess there are all kinds of jars in these regulations that I don't have in front of me. We all know that it is very difficult to get a divorce, that there must be some very rigid and complex conditions to meet, and on this journey many people do not trust to go, are preconceived that it will not work out. I support the bill with my whole mind, hoping that the case will get a hearing and an opinion. And although it may not be our brightest hope to come out of it, it will be a step at any rate to look more on those who have suffered physical injury, to have lost health, physical, and often to the point of spiritual loss; that this law will be opened up so that others who are affected will be enabled to use our Icelandic good judgment systems. There we want to see more issues go on, and there are much of the money, financial issues that come in, and the fear of not being able to pay for the case, no matter what the case, as well as having to stand in front of the judge and go through the whole process that it means taking a case for judgment. I want to thank you again for this. I like this subject, as I said earlier, in the context of our discussion of violence. Time and again, the victim of violence is not going to sit down with it but to bring back the shame. It could be a long talk, but it is also part of a helping people to decide their affairs in front of a judge in our ideal judicial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u31	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes (expansive and observational). Besides me, these are the bill of Ástadur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Inga Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas Tómasson. It reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. 2 mg. Thirty-nine. The law goes away. 2.g. 2nd and 3rd mg. 40. g. The law goes away. Section 3. Instead of the words "studentsmen, "" saluters, " or "messengers, " in the 1st case. 41 st. The law comes to you: the candidate or the clerk. Section 4. This law already comes into effect.◯ The bill was submitted to 149., 150., and 151. The bill suggests changes to specific protocols on social security law, No. 100/2007, in particular, legal requirements allowing the State's National Insurance Office to provide information on the employer's income or creditees under the law that the written agreements of both parties and regulations are obliged to take part in the treatment of a case. Then the applicant will not be allowed to show off because of the lack of needed information that is attributable to his or her partner. It's kind of amazing that I have to come this fourth time and recommend this case, which is supposed to be so, of course, that you're really going to be completely speechless about the fact that such a law is in force in the country. If the United Nations had established its agreement on the affairs of disabled people, then these laws would no longer be in effect, they would not have to be submitted. This shows the incredible disrespect that governments by the government have shown by maintaining laws that are completely unnecessary and that are actually only placed on the head of a particular person who is in disability. It is the assessment of the transporters that the relevant laws on information go too far in the violation of privacy of candidates and credit recipients and the right to help with sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty and similar incidents, cr. regulations 76. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. That principle is set out in Article 3. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons to respect inborn human dignity and self - control, including the freedom to make personal decisions and their independence. Is the assessment of transporters that the requirements of the current social security law are burdensome and add too much importance to a person having the rights of the contract to obtain information from his or her spouse and on the weight of a person who has to lean on the neglect of a mate in order to perform his or her duties. The law thus allows a postponement of decision and payment because of factors that will not be traced to the candidate or to the paygiver himself. Imagine how amazingly far back in time we're going by wearing these songs. We're saying that right there - making a mate responsible for another person, the other mate. And if that mate does not want to hear the decision, the other mate will be punished because he or she is not entitled to what he or she is entitled to. All I ask is for the basis of democracy, justice, and equality. How on earth - this is the same hurt as it used to be when poorer and older citizens and others were married to each other. At that time, the extraordinary situation was set up that the health of the mate, so to speak, the non - invalid, was committed to the others; hence, the other mate had no right to obtain full compensation or full pension from social security. Fortunately, it has been quite a while since it was taken away. But we're still inside with this, still trying to force some information into our lives. There is absolutely no need to give this power to one institution because this information can be obtained in most cases, it is available. But still, the institution thinks she needs this for backup, I think. I ask: How on earth can you ask for a backup that is simply a violation of human rights? Human rights. There's got to be something serious about that thinking, it's a delusion to let one person be responsible for another person, and if he doesn't want to be responsible for that person, the other person can be taken from the other person's rights. It just doesn't work out, no matter what it looks like. How different it is that we are still in the ancient age of this law! I hope that this bill will be approved now, that I don't have to bring it back once more because I don't see the soon to legalize the United Nations agreement. What is the most amazing, most significant, in all of this is: How much is it going to take to do this? How much does it cost a fund to accept this adjustment I suggest here? Yes, simply, not a crown. Not a cent. It only takes to show that they respect human rights, that they respect the individual, and that they are no longer offered the law, in effect, a gross violation of human rights to force one side to do something to force another to get his or her compensation. It's so amazing that you have to stand up here and fight for it. But this only shows black in white how any song battles of disability and of the social security system, which have old age, unemployment, or disability and others, those who are ill, still have to deal with the system. It's a small thing that would've only been agreed on right away, one, two and three, at 149th Congress. Then we ask ourselves, " Why not? ' What is it about the present government that makes them willing to keep this up and keep it inside breaking human rights, equality, violating sick people? There must be some strange reason why, because she's not a financial one. Then I ask, What is the reason? I haven't had the answer. It must be somewhere. But I just think, and I'm sorry to say it, that it's just that they want some kind of law that's incubating people. Then I ask myself, " Why? ' What does the government get out of having such a bad case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u32	Madam President. I'm not an expert on the social security system, like what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ilngi Kristinsson, but I'm overwhelmed by this disrespect for individuals who are really not playing too much. I can't bear to measure any individual rights more than this. We too are independent in marriage and in any relationship. That we are always ready to take action against the worst, wondering how we can reduce what they have the right to receive from public funds because of their disability, genuine disability - if a person is entitled to disability, he is entitled to it. Then it does not have anything to do with whether his mate has any income because these are two separate individuals, even though perhaps a gathering of a household. It's just a comparison that someone's spouse pays less money because he or she gets so much money. We can't think of it like this. We can't do that. If a person has the right to disability, he has it. He has a right to them, as far as he can tell if his spouse has any income that could -- it just doesn't matter, they shouldn't be affected. So I'm just going to encourage Congress to start respecting the individual rights of disability as well as that of others, i.e. that the micro-organic population should at least To enjoy the same respect and rights that other people in this society have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u33	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a patient's rights law, No. 74/1997 (actions and studies in children). Transporters besides me are Sæland Gorand and Tómas A. Tómasson. - Uh-huh. - 2 mg. Twenty-seven. The law says: Necessary actions and investigations in children are not permitted. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ A 151th leg of legislature (530th suit) was previously proposed, but it did not succeed. The bill is now submitted unchanged. Parents have custody of their children and make decisions about their issues, including the right to do so. Of the 71th str. The Constitution on privacy, home, and family. Parents'choice, though, is not absolute. The legislators can set rules that limit parental rights, which protect the child's interests at 3 mg. 76. g. the constitution, i.e. that children should be ensured by the law of protection and care that their welfare requires them. It is the Constitutional role of the Lawgiver to take particular care that laws provide children with protection. Especially is it important for children to be protected above other members of society, for in most cases they are unable to protect their own rights fully or to bring attention to their own situation in the same way as adults. Special attention should be given to situations in which decisions are made that will have a lasting effect on the life of a child, such as when making decisions on children of medical procedures, which are discussed in the patient's rights. In 1st. Twenty-six. The principle of the law states that parents who exercise custody of a child should accept needed treatment, but from that principle there are exceptions. Two. it is obliged by health care professionals to consult child - care providers who refuse to accept the necessary treatment of their children. That's 3 mg. The same articles for healthcare professionals to treat the necessary treatment promptly if there is no time to seek the protection of the child. Code 26. use in other words when it is necessary to treat a child and discuss where the boundaries should be withdrawn between a child's rights and parents. It is important to make sure that parents do not go too far when it comes to deciding whether a child should receive treatment. Two. Twenty-seven. the correctness of the patient's rights to protect children from unnecessary studies and measures. It should be guided by the decision whether tests or procedures should be performed. The benefits of a child must be determined by performing an operation or investigation and whether the risks of such an operation outweigh the risks of interests at stake. Unlike the rules that apply to the needs of children, this is not discussed in Article 27. how to react when parents request unnecessary treatment. The guidelines presented at 2 mg. Twenty-seven. There is an assessment and a long way from being definitive. The movers suggest 2nd. Twenty-seven. the patient's rights to refrain from performing unnecessary actions and studies in the paediatric population. The evaluation of non-necessary or non-necessary measures should take into account the child's interests as well as the medical and psychological factors. Transporters stress that parental principles should not be justified in allowing an action to be carried out or in order to cause certain procedures to be performed. If so, whether parents believe that their child chooses to undergo a future operation should not interfere with medical evaluation of necessity. Good judgment should always be given. If this bill is legal, health care professionals must evaluate the need for operations and research as well as refuse to perform any unnecessary procedures and tests in children. It's kind of weird that you have to put out a bill like that. This is one of the basics where you ask yourself: Why is it not long ago confirmed by the law that the child's right is always in first place, that it has left no doubt that the child's right can be carried out in no way with unnecessary action at the stage where the child is within the child's range, and that such actions are not carried out until the child has grown up and can make his own decisions? We've been dancing around a hot rock trying to ensure these rights of children, but somehow, we've completely gone by and somehow managed to leave a certain matter behind. We have somehow been able to have doubts so that something can be done in the name of emotional, religious, or other factors, and that the child's right should be protected from the action that parents want to take. We must realize that we are dealing with a parent's desire to have an unnecessary operation on a child. You ask yourself: " Why have we not already made sure that it is not possible and that if necessary action is needed, it is also carried out? In both cases, we need to ensure the right child. In itself it should probably be, but it isn't, unfortunately. We find that all over the world, children's rights are completely trampled on, especially when it comes to different cultures. We have seen that in different religions too. But that's not the way things are supposed to be. Things are meant to be in such a way that it is always the child who enjoys the doubt, that what is best for the child is what is right, always. Since we cannot make the child appear to be the parent's property, parents can do what they want and allow the child to take the steps that are right for them or they want to take. That's never the way we should think. We should always think about one thing and take care of the principles that the child's best will come in number one, number two and three, never what is best for parents or what the parents feel the need to do. They're not right there. The court is always on the child's side.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his speech. I think it's a really good thing. It's also complicated. I think it's right what I was trying to consider that it is in the law that children should be spared unnecessary action, and of course it is an incredibly peculiar expression; to spare children. In effect, what is being said? It is possible to do this and the other, but it is probably necessary to protect them from unnecessary action. Unnecessaryly, the point is made. What is unnecessary is not necessary. The very issue is that the child's interests are always to be guided. These are the interests of the children that we must always watch. I just want to point to the United Nations Children's Covenant, which has been legally validated here, and we are discussing in many places how we can better introduce it. I have recently suggested in the mayor that the United Nations Children's Covenant will be introduced in Reykjavík. It has not been done yet but has been done in other rural areas, such as Kopavogi. But everything in that covenant has to do with this, the child is not a thing, it's not a property, it's a person who grows up and may wish to have an opinion on various matters, but he could not do it because it was a child when things were happening. Unnecessary actions - of course, we need to look at each matter, for this is complicated and what may be necessary for someone else, though not necessary. At some point, I can imagine that parents might disagree about such things, and a doctor is discussing something that is necessary while another doctor says that this is unnecessary. We can see all kinds of manifestations in this subject. It's best to remember a discussion about tonsils taking place, if I remember correctly, someone thought it was a necessary procedure, but someone else thought it was unnecessary at that point, and it could only be delayed. It can range from these to a much larger issue, perhaps irreversible surgery, surgery of the body where things are being taken or affected by the body, and then we are talking about irreversible things. This may be what the child, when he is no longer a child, might also want to say, and should have to say rather than something that his parents may have been raised to be right. Like what? Ingi There Kristinsson be a certain culture, religion, and so forth. This is an enormously complex flea. The best thing we can do in this situation is always to take care of your child's interests, to guide their interests, and to what it is that your child would later choose to do. And then there is the wait for it to reach their age that it can make its own decision. But otherwise already, because we're playing with words here, someone's talking about something doesn't need to be said, says all that has to be said. Then you can wait and look at it later. You can also see how a case develops in case of disease or physical illness or something, it may well be possible to check your pulse later on, and what is unnecessary today may become necessary after some time. The law clearly needs to be cleared in terms of wording, and it is absolutely pointless to use words in this way to shield children from unnecessary action. There's a lot of sharpening and making it clear. Then I would suggest that the United Nations Children's Covenant be totally guided by such work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u35	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes (institution of habitat- related pension). The movers besides me are Ástadur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Sæland Gaand, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. - Uh-huh. - At 1st. 17th par. The law adds a new sentence, as follows: The rights of an Icelandic citizen should be limited to an alien resident in another country except to the extent he enjoys financial rights for that estate. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ A 151th leg of legislature (28th suit) was previously proposed, but it did not succeed. The bill is now submitted unchanged. The right to social security in Iceland is impaired if the loyal one was living abroad between 16 and 67 years of age. So a number of people suffer from a decrease in their pensions because of living abroad. These declines are being carried out today regardless of whether people have the right to pay from a foreign state because of their dwelling there. Over the past few years, there has been much debate between government and pension workers. The method used by the U.S.A.S.S.A. to determine whether a place of residence was an emissary or not, he felt that the method was illegal. - Notice: Illegal. In addition, the County Court of Reykjavík found that in last summer, it was forbidden to interfere with specific contributions, since the Minister's Regulation has not improved. After the great struggle of older citizens, the Allied Council adopted social support for the elderly. They provide the elderly with a right to forward support of up to 90% of the total pension. This additional support is given to those who live abroad who are not entitled to a full pension. Although the support is extended to a great deal of help, the requirements for assistance are strict. For example, there is once again a quarter of a dollar in return. - Take a look at this. It is back to a centenarian that all classes praised, not before the last election, but before - but that the government in the last season was able to return to at a quarter of a dollar in contrast to a dollar's impairment. As a result of the struggle by pensioners against governments, many people, who suffered years of illegal impairment, have now been corrected. - There's a lot left. However, it remains that in many cases there is a large decrease in social security spending due to the living of pensioners abroad. In addition, those who receive additional support from a pensioner receive only 90% of their rights. In order for righteousness to be accomplished, the law must be adjusted. - If someone is going to get 100% rights and to live on them, or to be honest with them, how on the other hand are they going to try to outsmart them and live on 90% of the rights by a Šk a dollar in return to this government of his well-known generosity? Or the other, either. 1st. 17th par. The law on social security determines the effect of busier pensioners on his right to pension. Other legal procedures refer to the rules presented in Article 17. Based on the same rules, it is possible to calculate the disability intensification, age-related biofuels, and income insurance. The formula used in 1 mg. 17th par. The law proposes that the full rights of the pension will be obtained by a country in at least 40 calendars between 16 and 67 years of age. If the person has lived in this country for less than 40 years during the specified period, his rights will be limited according to this. These inhibitions are carried out regardless of whether the domestic population of the abroad provides similar financial rights. - There's no check. 0-O-U-T-T-T-T. the Act on Social Security, it is discussed that it is permitted to negotiate between countries on how to determine people's rights from farm time. Iceland has made such agreements with several states and between EU countries it is a contract that states that rights are not lost by transport to another EEA. It remains that many countries have not made such agreements with Iceland. For example, if a person has been living in the United States for years, the right to disability may be reduced, although the person may have been first regarded as an invalid after moving back to Iceland. In such cases, the individual is not entitled to the equivalent of money from abroad and from the one he loses. This is nothing more than discrimination on the basis of a farm and disqualifys the Constitution's equalitarian rule. It is one thing that pensions are reduced because of foreign pensions, but when pensions are impaired simply because a person has been living in another country for a time, it is nothing but discrimination. - And we have to ask ourselves, "Why in the world do we let ourselves like this?" Why are we dealing financially with people just because they've lived in another country? Is it just because the government and we can do it? And then, to our great shame and wonder how much we haven't changed. To prevent such discrimination, it is suggested that only the social security rights be impaired when it is clear that the person is entitled to and receive comparable rights from abroad because of living there. In this way, brutal housing restrictions against microgamy and old - age pensioners who once lived abroad would be able to obtain 100% of their rights but not 90%. We also need to realize that we are often talking about the worst in farms and may have been living at 60,400,000 bucks. per month. We know that in Iceland no one can live on that, and we also know that there's no one who can live at least 90% of the minimum. This is economic violence, which brings us great shame. It is quite remarkable that this has been approved only over a year ago, in the last legislation, that a law has been passed on to pay 90% of minimum value and a krona against a krona. And I'm asking myself, what's going on with the government? Where is she going? Is she going backwards on rights? And I ask myself, " Is it really me, then, when they pretend to be dealing with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people? ' You can't believe it in any way. I could not believe my eyes and could not believe it in any way at the time when I read about this incredible injustice, that in our time, someone who is supposed to be 10% lower than other pensioners and who are being cut down with a kroner at a penny but not with the others. I thought we were more developed. I thought we'd gone further. I thought we'd been out of the torso long ago. This government is by means of this process of going back and forth into the ancient world. I hope that she now sees the light and takes it to heart that everyone is as legal as that human rights are equal to everyone, but there is no way to punish people financially, and unhappily, for whatever country they lived in. On the other hand, if we're going to let people live here and give them citizenship, they're entitled to be in exactly the same place as everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u36	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for this bill, not just because I'm a middle-aged man who ever gets to be 67 years old, and it even starts to affect me. But after living a lot abroad from time to time, I'm quite familiar with this problem. You see, when you live abroad, some countries have a powerful and good system where you earn a pension very quickly. For example, for a year in Sweden, I worked in a pension rights right there, actually not very much, and I'll have a 70-year-old of 170. Swedish a month. But at least I got the rights. In the United States, I have lived for some time, but I can't get rights because I haven't lived there long enough for them to fall in. If we just watch dates and how long the person has lived in this age period, it gives a very wrong picture. So it is very important that Iceland is restricted only if the person really gets something from the other country. I have also lived in such countries as Rwanda in Africa, where there is no pension system. I have no rights for the two years I lived there. They need to be taken care of. Of course, this was no doubt an act of legal action because they did not want to take two times in each area. What people may not realize when they were writing this law is that not all of them get a pension, especially foreigners, when they live abroad. If you are an Icelander and you live somewhere abroad, you are defined as a foreigner and you need to earn even more rights, if you have rights to head. Of course, it is only righteousness to watch people get a pension from those countries when it comes to calculating how much this is supposed to be. This reminded me a little of one thing that I found once when I moved across the country. I thought it was such a matter of time to move, how many days I'd lived in the country, when things like taxes would come. I thought in my simple mind that the rule was such that if I moved on July 1, I would have half my tax rate. No, in this case it was decided not to count the days because they could come out unusable, but they were looking at the income in Iceland, and I got the percentage of the taxes from the income. Rather than thinking about what is more righteous, they always choose what seems to be the most suitable place for the Kingdom. - That's all I wanted to say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u37	Mr. President. On behalf of the United States government, I strongly condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This is an attack war, a clear violation of international law, with no justification. This invasion, like all other wars, is primarily an attack on ordinary people, an attack on the everyday lives of ordinary people, their future, and their safety. Our minds are with them, and our responsibilities are toward them. We demand that the Russians stop their military action in Ukraine, which has already killed lives and will lead to further wars, refugees, and violations of human rights. To meet the demands, the Icelandic government supports the economic forced action taken against Russia. Then Iceland will support Ukraine with increased humanitarian assistance, including the decision to give one million euro to humanitarian assistance in Ukraine. Russia's campaigns allow not only for the safety of ordinary people in Ukraine but also for the security of Europe's security systems but also for the independence of Ukraine. Europe faces one of the greatest threats to safety for decades, and today the world's common solidarity is under pressure to bring peace, to get Russia to stop war, and to prevent this conflict from spreading. After the events of the night, what we most feared is to experience, war, casualties, and suffering from ordinary people. Iceland has taken a clear stand. We reject this warfare. We demand that it be stopped, and we are part of the wide international solidarity that has already developed in support of Ukraine and peace in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u38	A respectable president. Tonight, what we've been afraid of in the past few weeks proved true. We are now experiencing the greatest threat in Europe since the second world war. NATO and the European Union face their greatest challenge, and what will result is the solidarity of these countries, the solidarity of sovereign democracies against power action, and the attacks of Pútín. It is important that the Icelandic government condemned the Russian invasion and announced that Iceland will provide resources for humanitarian assistance. In the United States, we give firm support to the European Commission's statement on the condemnation of military operations and believe that Iceland has a high level of activity with Western nations and that our officials speak frequently and clearly internationally. Sadly, the response of Western nations needs to be more intense than already introduced. Clearly, the actions that have already been attacked fail. It is also necessary for such small countries as Iceland to cooperate with Ukraine and to use every means available to support the Ukrainian nation. Likely, innocent citizens are crossing the Ukraine border, and I want to from here the General Assembly chairman of the United States to take Ukraine right away, starting a list of secure states, to prepare for the welcome of refugees here in Iceland. We are a nation without war, but we can show solidarity and shelter, and that is what we should do. It is our duty as a nation in a nation of nations. Finally, I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for starting this discussion today. It is important and it is important that it takes place in this room and that ministers inform the United Nations of the state's affairs and actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u39	A respectable president. The position of the government of the United States has been clear, and it is still clear. We have so far supported peaceful debates over the tensions that have been formed specifically in eastern Ukraine, but now that the border has been breached and the invasion of a sovereign, free democracy, we also send a clear message that things have changed. We condemned the unprovoked attack by Russia on Ukraine, and it is in our mind and in our part of the whole world a clear violation of international law on a law that we simply base our sovereignty on. It is at such times that we will remember what it means to be recognized by other nations because they are to respect national boundaries and sovereign states, that the people themselves can have important things at home. Clearly not everyone does. All these fundamentals are under attack, and therefore, you cannot help but look up to a considerable deal of Russian activity in the ocean around Iceland, for example. ... andintheairway of the airspace in a very different light today. Suddenly, Russia's submarines have been around here in Icelandic economic law, and planes regularly break Icelandic airspace. All of this requires that we consider and ask ourselves questions related to the future and in the meantime and right now we have to send out a clear message that we will be along with those who work with us in the defense union, the Atlantic Alliance, and respond violently and in harmony with the aggression shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u40	A respectable president. It's a serious matter, and it's kind of lame to think that there's been a short war here from our country. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is a violation of international law and seems to be done to serve only one dictator. Western countries must take judicial action against Russians and give Ukraine proper support. We can be grateful for the peace conditions that have existed over the last few decades. But history shows that such is an exception. The International Society must work hard for the next few days and weeks to secure the security of people in Ukraine and put pressure on Russia's governments to give up this illegal invasion. The Russian bear has drawn out its weapons. In time, the Nazis invaded Russia. Pútín will now follow Hitler's footsteps and invade Ukraine. Russia had every right to defend themselves against the Nazis, and Ukraine had so. Now Ukraine has the full right to fight against the Russian bear. But who are those under there and get the worst out of this? Common, disabled people, older people. Our compassion is with them. That's why we have to use and ensure that every way we can stop this war is because it's the people who need to be protected and always land between them and who can't escape. We must send a clear message to Russia: We will never feel that Russia will automatically be able to with its military authority in a state. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u41	A respectable president. What we have seen in the last days, and what we have seen during the last 24 hours has been experienced. We must strongly condemn the actions and decisions made by Russia's president and the government by attacking their free and sovereign neighboring kingdom, a democracy, and thus breaking borders and international laws. We must join the ranks of all other democracies in the world, Western nations, our alliances, whether in NATO or in Europe. I would like to declare it, and there is no doubt in it that the government is united in the declaration made by the prime minister at the beginning of this discussion. I am also glad to hear that the message coming from the council is clear. Our message from Iceland, from government, from the General Assembly, is simply this: We condemned these Russian actions, and we are with the people in Ukraine. Surely our minds must be in the common people, where their normal lives are threatened every day. We will do everything we can. We need to shoulder the responsibilities we have in our defense alliance and in the coalition work there to benefit from this project. We also need to try to do what we possibly can to help the people in Ukraine. I appreciate this discussion. It's important and it's important that we cooperate from Iceland. I hope the whole world does the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u42	A respectable president. In the wake of his own progressive warmongering of war, a powerful dictator has invaded Ukraine. My mind and party of Pirata are with the Ukraine people. We agree with the ultimate condemnation. To this incorruption and inevitable invasion war, the prime minister is now under way. Just now, I met members of the Council of Europe and listened to the terrible report of a Ukrainian woman and my friend about the situation there. She told us that troops have taken over important infrastructures, such as electricity and gas, as well as bombing and occupying airports and other military important infrastructures. She described how gunmen and gangs shoot at civilians trying to escape from Ukraine's cities in security. Her plea to us was clear: We must create a platform for peace talks without delay, for this war must come to an end immediately. What, though, can we do to create such a scene when the battle will is so great? Pirata's team believes that individual business pressure and penalties are most likely to force the Russians into the bargaining table. Frying bank accounts, promoting freedom of movement, and setting up freedom of movement for the highest executives in Russia and the yens that finance their war operations. So do we, of course, support Iceland's involvement in all the forced and penalties our allies are engaging in. But I'd like to give you a warning, in the end. Although it is anticipated that the presence of the troops of NATO will increase in the Icelandic region, we do not feel that Iceland will be a stop for nuclear weapons or a location where nuclear weapons are stored. Therefore, we would like to speed up the matter of that matter from a council of greens through the council as soon as possible. We stand in peace and humanitarianness. We are on the Ukrainian nation, and we challenge the government to take the initiative to invite refugees from the area to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u43	Mr. President. A storm cloud covering Europe. Russia's invasion of a free and sovereign nation, Ukraine, is the greatest threat to Western democracy, throughout Europe, for a long time. It's a sad day. It's raining bombs on civilians of the West. We Icelanders have the duty, the duty, and that of other Western democracies, to be intervening in a clear condemnation. It's sometimes that one's test of solidarity, and I'm celebrating the ultimate statement. The prime minister and government of all, a position supported by a convention group of reveries. It is such a clear stand and action in harmony with what is involved in defending the values most important to us, freedom, human rights, and democracy. We show a solidarity with a European sovereign nation under attack for the development of a democracies. We are to take part in activities involving the European Union, along with the European Union, with its full Western democratic powers. Iceland's International Place in a changed world also exists. Like other smaller nations, we need to strengthen our place in the international community in the light of new threats and changes in world affairs. Today, however, the task is a complete harmony in the response of Western democracies to Russia's attack on a free and sovereign nation. We will pass that test. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the government to respond quickly and well to the obvious need for assistance to civilians in Ukraine and to welcome refugees from there. Our duties and interests as Western democracy are also there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u44	A respectable president. The Pirata House supports this matter, but it's been through 2nd. ... aboutthewayand in a committee party. Congress members of the Gangs and the United Nations blame for the lateness of this case. Also, we have proposed some changes in the bill to ensure that the help will be provided to a person who pays under collective contracts and shows respect for the rights of working people and will provide minimally the CFC reports that are required to return any assets to the tax industry. We know that the greater part has not wanted to forbid companies who use tax field service but we may consider the minimum, and hopefully minimum, that the government will agree to become firm authority that if they have not returned the required reports of their share, they should pay back this support. I got it. I got it. The members of the greater part of this section consider our proposal and accept it when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u45	Mr. President. Of course, we can always do better than I can make it up for them whose publications are under the minority opinion of the Economic and Business Committee, where it is suggested that the government is planning to reduce the number of companies for tourism. All of us know how important it is to ensure a wide range of tourism across the country. The measures taken are just as effective as protecting smaller companies, defending jobs far and wide throughout the country, and having them even. reports that if it hadn't been done, a lot of companies have already locked up. It's all tied up well here, and it's all agreed with the IRS. It is unwise to change the conditions that have been pursued, especially when there is no material significance in which good mind is inadequate. The aim is to bring fair resources that provide equal opportunities for an enterprise in a comparable position.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u46	A respectable president. I agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir. In terms of what was presented in the following talk, I strongly encourage candidate members to support the job life and to vote with our proposal that the payout target will be reduced from 40% to 30%, as company officials in travel services have called in advance. We've proposed adjustments that we'll vote on afterwards to further support and support more businesses that have been exposed to massive contractures in the pandemic. As noted in the case of both this and the case, our proposals are in line with that. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir's party earlier, to make sure that the support comes primarily to companies who respect the law and the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u47	A respectable president. The people's party supports this kickback strength and it's cool that we're sponsoring the business that's been badly out of the Covid. However, there are others who have also suffered ill from Covid. People's insurance workers have gone really bad out of Covid, and there's a lot of resources that haven't gone up for decades, and I hope the next step will be to raise the strength, and there will also be big steps to strengthen their mental health and health insurance system so that those who have been badly out of the Covid will also get the rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what. The vice-president of the Economic and Business Committee, who had to come up here because of the words brought down here, which were referred to as financial aid from the State, and which I would like to maintain because of the point of view that this is a benefit for the damage the government has brought to these companies by their actions and which the companies have truly had to demonstrate. This discussion is not to be overlooked. So I think the matter should be submitted in the way that more of the Economic and Business Committee has established.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u49	A respectable president. I just want to be happy that we're getting together today to continue the proceedings at the council and thank you for our cooperation with the committee in implementing the matter. This case came after a break over Christmas and the year and, as if they were no doubt reminded, was quite limited to the need for these actions, and so we accepted them at that time. But something extraordinary has happened on a short period of time that the Senate has had to react to, and now it is that when we are making a vote here today, we are on the day of the last meeting limit. No one could foresee it when the matter was laid before the council a few weeks ago. Still, this is a vital matter. The need has changed, so hopefully this will be less challenging. But this is the final key in a special assistance to a company and a operator who leads to the meeting limit from tomorrow onward, hopefully the final outcome will be over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u50	A respectable president. I'm on this matter of the greater part, and I support it with my whole mind. In fact, I was surprised at the figures that took over this case and that would have seemed normal and accurate that we had completed it much earlier. There's no time to waste. Despite the mitigation measures we are taking in these days, there are companies who have been underpaying and even incomeless for months. They need help, so I'm on top of it. I'm ready to support the change in the memory of the part by 30%, but otherwise I lean toward the suggestion of the greater portion that has been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u51	A respectable president. I want to, in view of the words that happened earlier. paritaprevir She and other members of the Independence Party Einarsdóttir encouraged to support our proposal that the Diljá Mist will be reduced. Especially if people look at this from some destructive, right - to - right viewpoints, there is no evidence to merely respond - in fact, they should be much lower, and much less to the conditions in this bill if that is the basis for thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u52	Mr. President. I certainly feel that there is a need to take the actions proclaimed by this bill. However, as soon as strength and support are given in this situation, I find it normal to make the clear demands for enterprises that are supported by the value of the labour market's rights. It should be quite clear, and we here are to make the requirements for the enterprises that are supported and, of course, that they pay their taxes and obligations here on the country but do not profitably through a tax cover. That's why I think it's important that the changes in my terms will all be accepted here and encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u53	A respectable president. We're paying here, if I'm not mistaken - somebody can correct me if I'm wrong, but I think we're voting on our proposal to make a change in the definition of revenue in the law of resistance. We believe that this change is quite simply, in the spirit of this bill and in the spirit of laws about the strength of resistance and the thinking that it shows up, that it is primarily about protecting companies from contractures and services, not income contractions that have something to do with capital movements and such to do. So here we are simply suggesting that a company can take a scholarship to a government fund because of a drop in income that has something other than a contraction of sales and services. It's just a simple adjustment. I hope this thing is supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u54	Mr. President. This amendment is about reducing criteria and income loss, from the beginning of 2022 onward, from 40% to 30%, which is correcting the increase in prices from the reference period in 2017 without increasing something particularly complicated in the implementation of taxation. This is in harmony with the viewpoints expressed in the reviews of professional employment drivers' social status, the review of the Transporter Association and the Employment Association, and the review of a group of private and small companies for tourism. This is a very important change to get tourism companies across this most difficult month of the year, when hopefully the end of this pandemic will come, let's hope so. I challenge the members of all classes to support this proposal and show that they have a job situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u55	A respectable president. In the past, the EEA has suggested that our proposals in smaller parts and ours in the Community to rule out individuals and companies that use tax belts and debinos from the state fund support for a pandemic of crown virus. This is not the law. This is simply a requirement, the normal requirement, for the interviewee to have submitted to the so-called CC reports when appropriate. I don't believe anything else, Mr. Honorable President, but the administrative body agrees with us in the smaller part on this condition. There can be no particular competition for enterprises that do not adhere to law and rules also receive grants, laws and regulations in this respect, on the submission of CC reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u56	A respectable president. Here we suggest that application deadlines be extended to June 30, 2002, and set aside March 2021 to March 2022. This will help us to take into account the fact that short application deadlines have taken on small companies, including Unemployable enterprises and perhaps the same perspective on accounting and larger companies. During the execution of farms and closures, a specific period was applied, but not every month, as is done here with the maintenance strength. Of course, this has caused confusion. We feel that it is normal to respond by making room for the application period even more. I hope for the support of both more and less parts of this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u57	Now it's got a vote for what to do. Probably a senator means a different vote than the one mentioned here, because now we're paying votes for 2kres. The bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-24-41.u58	Mr. President. This is a vote for if the employer is to be advised that if the employee pays an employee deliberately or of a gross lack of pay or other remuneration which is less than an economist of the labour market at the time of the requisitions, he will have to pay for the level back. It is voluntary, and it is a very important message that the General sends to companies who receive this support, that they have implicitly respect for the workforce's rights. How can they be interpreted if the Council proposes such a suggestion? How can they be interpreted? It's very serious, and we can only look at the defense of the union of professionals in the matter of the stewardess Society against those who were specifically quoted by the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] They felt that they did not have to interpret by age because the General had made such a suggestion. [[The president calls.]] How would the workforce interpret the results of this vote to respect the rights of employees? Now let's think about it, huh? All council members. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
