ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u1	Borist has received a letter from the head of the Central Party to Bergþór Ólason, 8th. Witchest. "Be absent in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a replacement of the party list in the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the National Congress team to Inga Sæland, the 7th. Smoke. So, will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So today, on Thursday, March 10th, Wilhelm Wessman, 1st strategist of the party's list in the district, seats to be her backup.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u2	Wilhelm's letter has already been investigated and approved, but he has not taken his seat in the Council before and must sign the commitment to the Constitution. I want to pray. A senator writing under the scallop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u3	Vilhelm Wessman has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to work at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u4	A respectable president. I came up here one more trip last night because of the regular lawbreakers of the Foreign Institute, under cover. Minister of Justice, in which the Agency refuses to provide the council with evidence needed by the council. There was some controversy as to whether the National Institute for Foreign Affairs was obliged to provide the Council with data requested by the council, and the General and Education Committee was formally requested at the end of December. and repeated in January. Has the highest. So a minister of justice maintained in the media and elsewhere that the arrangements referred to by the Council, Article 51. The Treaty of the General Assembly, does not apply to the matter. According to this request, a legal opinion has now been made from the Council's Legal Office, confirming that the Agency should provide evidence to the council, and it was actually to do so within seven days after the request was submitted and at the latest on February 1, at the latest, but the committee granted the Agency the proper time to submit the evidence. I want to reiterate this day my request to the Speaker of the Council, the Supreme Court. The president, to intervene and speak on behalf of the council, to take care of his respect. I would like to know how the president intends to respond to this coup.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u5	The president intends to continue talking in order to find a practitioner's solution to the issues involved and will in order to discuss both the committee and the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice to follow through so that the matter will be resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u6	President. I would like senators to consider only a surrealist on this matter. It's the Ministry simply saying to the council, "No, you can't get it. This is true of all matters. This is similar to any case of the council, the entire legal structure of the council. The Congress is working on something else to legalize, in any case, saying to the Ministry: We need more information to explain this. Then the Ministry should answer: of course, and provide the data, of course. This is no different than any other case involved in the Senate's surveillance role, the Senate's legislation, because it's once a matter of enforcing civil rights laws, no more complex than that, of the Congress's legislation. And it is prerogative that the executive authority will somehow try to turn it out and say: "No, this is not the keeping of the council, so we are not going to give you the data.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u7	A respectable president. I just want to add to what I was saying here and I want to pray. Councilmen to consider the consequences of what will be the consequences if the Council is unspoken to an institution, much less to cover shelter, and to give me the order of a minister, not permissible to provide evidence to the council under Congress. I just want to pray. Councilmen consider what this example will do if we do not react, regardless of what people may feel about this particular matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to take my heart to the words that have fallen here and for the last few days in the chamber on this matter. I'd love to make General Presidents more interesting. I do not doubt that the Senate's president has the best interests of the council and that he wants the best way of it. But I think the President's answers to us are a little weak. To continue some conversation with the Ministry, the Minister, at the Foreign Institute, I would not be classified as taking a little of a step to the ground. It's just that the council is being prevented from doing its own job, which in this case is giving citizens the legal right to the law. I feel like the highest. The President of Generalis should inform us more about what has been presented in these discussions and whether he does not feel that he is now feeling that he is now going to the earth more strongly once all the uncertainty has been completely cleared that this evidence is due to be obtained by the council, as it is called.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u9	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. I don't find adequate treatment of the case at the highest level. To consider talking with the government in some way that prevents the General Assembly from fulfilling its legal duties. This is not to refuse to deliver data requested by the NTSB for its own observation. These are legal data to the National Institute of Iceland, so I don't quite understand why this 51 was usually being considered. g., because it's actually a different procedure. In this case, it is just a matter of reviewing the assignment of the European Environment Agency, which has been assigned to receive the applications of the European Commission - which we can only decide to stop doing this - however, let certain data be delivered, shall be provided. It's not a choice. The foreign department should provide data from the police and be advised. There's no choice, Mr. President. Now Mr. President has to stand by the council and hit the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u10	A respectable president. Once again, we will stand here and discuss this matter. I must admit that I find it most difficult when it comes to claiming that there is a constant violation of law at the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, under the cover of Ministers. For everyone to realize that, the Foreign Institute has never said they're not going to hand these data over. That's not what it's about. A foreign agency is well aware that it should review these applications and give us a review. It's about time. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that time has become too long, so it is in my mind, and I expect it - we know that these applications have been under way and have given us some of these comments - they will finish this case the first. As I said here yesterday, the big thing is that we're looking to the future. How do we want this? That's what a General and Education Committee has to go through right now. We need to find a future arrangement that will bring honor to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u11	President. These data were requested in the light of 51 st. Protocol to deliver data within a week to the Commission. It's only in the law. There was an answer: No, we are not under obligation to enforce that law. There is something about the surveillance role of the Generals, but not this assignment. This was about the memo we received, of course, that the Executive Director should submit the data to the General. 51st par. in this case. That's what the Ministry and the Agency were saying: We don't want to give you these data, according to Congress. We said, "Yes, we are. And the Senate's legal opinion says you're right and you're wrong with a minister, you're wrong at Foreign Institute. The data are being delivered. So I guess they tried to stop this evidence from being received by the General. It is a prerequisite to say: We're just gonna do it sometime when it's convenient for us to do so. They tried to stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u12	Mr. President. I have to say, the words of the Chairman of the General and Education Committee, why. paritaprevir The comics of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir disappointed me here earlier. It's not just for a while. It's about that there are people out there in the community who had hoped that a certain practice would be followed for years. In all of this, it is one thing to change the way the council has worked and to deal with these issues over the years. So it's not just a matter of time. It's a matter of one - sided position by the Ministry and the Bureau that overrules how the council has handled these issues over the years. There are flesh and blood people out there who have the expectation that this will be done the same way it has been in the past few years and even longer. And then I'd like to go to the top search, please. The general president of the United States has given us little insight into what kind of answers he has been receiving when he has communicated with either the Ministry or the Agency on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u13	A respectable president. Yes, it's a matter of time, of course, but it's also been breaking here decades of practice. Twice a year, a foreign agency has published timeouts to send in citizens' applications for the General Assembly. It has been October 1 and March 1 every year, twice a year. This intervention in the routine process of the General Assembly is completely unacceptable, and I wish it. paritaprevir The practice of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who is also president of the General and Education Committee, does not minimize the use of the European Commission in this way against the General Assembly. It is an important institution and has a legal obligation in this regard and has no choice. That's what we're supposed to do. We are to make a decision, such as why. A senator says, changing this practice, but we do not do so by being forced into the process of making an application of a minister to change it. [[The president calls.]] That's not how things happen. I'd like more respect for the Generals' work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u14	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir When Haraldsdóttir's granddaughter insists that there is a constant violation of the law at the National Institute of Refugees under the cover of Ministers, the tragedy is very much appreciated. I don't agree that it's too much enthusiast, but maybe more accurate expressions could be made. There's always a law against ordering a minister. As noted here in the February 10 symposium - we have been discussing this matter for almost two months because the problem has persisted for a long time - the highest claim. Minister of Justice that he had committed this kind of work to the Bureau. On the contrary, over the course of decades in the history of the Generals with the administration of these matters, the Agency's minister had to conduct himself like this. I think, Mr. President, having some conversation with the committee and Minister on how to get this to a better perspective a little mild at this point at the highest level. President, as two months of repeated violation of the minister's will is very clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u15	A respectable president. One more time I'll come up here. I'm beginning to think that this is one of the most--... I've met at this council and asked me if this is about to top some stupid shit here at the council because it's not that complicated. I don't understand all this time that has begun to solve this situation. Don't let any communication take long today, and I don't need to go a long distance to get them in this case because the man in charge who can solve this case sits here a few meters from us, so I'm just asking: "Why on earth does the Minister not see for all of us to resolve this matter and show respect for the council that we don't have to be discussing it here day after day, at least I hope it's not for the next two months?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u16	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Justice, university, industrial and innovation, and Minister of Culture and Business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u17	A respectable president. Every time, it is a fundamental responsibility for the government to protect the security of its citizens. It takes regular locality and government to have the courage and courage to do so, but it does not automatically push off the board that can be important for the country and for the safety of its citizens. In fact, I noticed that the prime minister felt that there was absolutely no need to secure the presence of a defender in this country. All right. There may be a statement intended for home bridges in the VG, but I feel worse that no safety evaluation should still be done in this context, at least has not been introduced to us on the State Department. We need to evaluate this and map out how our security and defenses are best protected, whether through a targeted defense or by another international cooperation that can contribute to peace and security. Therefore, at the council, we have proposed international cooperation in security, foreign security and defenses. The defence agreement against the United States is one of our cornerstones for national security since 1951. Conditions have changed considerably. The defence agreement needs to be made up of Internet attacks directed against the security of the country. It also needs to take into account the importance of broken traffic, infrastructure and international communication at times of war, such as supply transport, marine cables, or energy security. This doesn't make the deal today. It requires clear instructions on how to act. This is extremely important. It must provide clear guidelines on the actions and responsibility of the decision making, in order to enable the assistance of the United States under the contract. That's not clear today. It's a threat to the safety of us Icelanders. And it is not clear how long this minimum time would have to be to be delivered to the country. So my question to the highest. The minister in this light is: Is the prime minister and chairman of the National Security Council not a reason to adopt the defense agreement with the United States in this light, especially when we bear in mind the national security and protection interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u18	Mr. President. I think it's very important that the Allied Parliament work and operate according to the approved national security policy. Hv. A senator mentions one aspect of her defense agreement with the United States. One part of it is the involvement of the Atlantic Alliance, which is in ten teams. I think there's a reason to bring it up, because it's normal for discussion right now, that we will discuss how our safety will be fully secure. I would like to say that over the last four years, the National Security Council has done a huge job in following all aspects of national security policy, all ten factors, and over it is being carried out in this national security report. There are a number of factors that need to be kept in mind when we consider the security of our citizens. It's Internet security, it's telecommunications. As we look at the present conflict, I think we can confidently evaluate it, so that this risk is not limited to what we can call conventional military factors, as well as online security, telecommunications, and other factors that depend on our ensuring the safety of important infrastructure and that it has been won. Hv. A senator here asks about the risk assessment, and as she knows well, a benefit-risk assessment for the 2021 National Security Council was issued. We have decided at the scene of national security to update this position to make an independent assessment of what is most important in response. Furthermore, it has been established that the European Union's implementation programmes for all regions of the Community, regions there are five, have been activated, which means that there is a wide range of specific mechanisms for implementing it and, of course, we are fully involved. But the next step at the National Security Council is to update this assessment so that we can make an independent assessment of where the need is really greatest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u19	A respectable president. That's interesting. Prime Minister, a member of the government as well. The independent party is a member, unable to make a clear statement that the defense agreement with the United States since 1951 should be adopted in view of national interest, national security. That doesn't make it clear in the contract how long Americans have to respond if we call for help. That doesn't clearly say so. It is to cover up some risk assessment here a year ago, when world conditions have changed dramatically. There's something very difficult and delicate going on here, and I hope it's not the direction of the left green which leads to a firmness of our ability to protect our safety, our confidence. The question is simple: Will a minister take advantage of his defense deal with the United States in view of the more specific provisions he has for protecting us Icelanders, not just for Internet security, but also for knowing how long America's time is going to respond if we want their help in an uncertain situation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can see that there's everything in a pin right here on the government bench. I understand that it is. [[The point is: Too bad she doesn't know exactly how to do it.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u20	Mr. President. I must now say that this question surprises me more than my answers. I don't like it at all. A senator is sowing the seeds here that the defence agreement will not last. It's there. He's been updated twice, 2006, and then 2016, and it's not just my food as president of the National Security Council, as a boy. A senator would like to have the government's opinion that this is not necessary, that it is clear as well as the involvement in the national security union. So I think there's a why. A senator resorting to certain speech reactions. I don't think there's any reason to resort to such speech when world conditions are as serious as they are. I don't think there's any reason to come up here and try to make it seem that the Icelandic government is not doing everything in their power to ensure the safety of Icelandic citizens as we contribute to the disaster we face in Ukraine. We're using humanitarian assistance and other factors. Mr. President. I think the organization that has been here at the council is something we should try to hold on to when things are as serious as they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u21	Mr. President. Recently, members of the board of directors have appeared and declared that they have discovered that there is a need for more energy in the country. This has been tried for several years, but it has aroused, in effect, limited attention to this government. But now it's got the highest. One prime minister joins this group and agrees that there will be more energy production here, more energy production, and more efficient. This is one of the findings reported in a new report made by the government during the day that energy production will need to be increased by 125%, including 125%. to achieve the government's targets of energy change. But how is it that we were not concerned about what must be fundamental in energy exchange? Why was the energy itself not considered when the government was preparing and introducing its plans or at least climate goals? I realize that the government climate policy was primarily thought of as some kind of paper tents in reporting form, but would it not have been wise to consider that the product side of the case and the way people would be able to fulfill it? That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What will be done to ensure adequate energy production in Iceland for the next few years? Now I ask for a relatively simple, clear answer, not an errand - as much fun as they can be from the highest. Ministers like us sometimes hear here, but they'd be better off at a party meeting at the left movement, a green offer - it's a clear answer to the Generals. How's the top? ▪ Prefects that energy production will be increased in Iceland as needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's instructions on going to a speaker, and we may even set up a small school for senators on that subject. Hv. A senator seems surprised that it was in my case that it was normal to watch for further activation. I just want less of it. For a member of the council, this was proposed in 2020, the third stage of a framework for the appointment of the council. That payment was not completed, including the benefits of a novelty class. So I don't think my statement has to come. A senator is surprised that I believe it is normal for us to cross a wise green energy policy and to ensure this important balance between the protection of unmanageable nature and the use of green energy. For me, meeting the challenge of achieving climate targets and protecting nature is what I have talked about, and that's why we're looking at a wide range of costs when it comes to activation and technology as much as possible. I'd like to remind you of the proposed bill that to produce bigger activations, you don't have to go through a frame plan like it's been, which I think is a very reasonable step. Then I'd like to mention that in connection with the report using six stage photos, I believe that it requires that politics discuss what we want to use our energy. Surely it is so that I believe we should use this energy in the exchange of energy here on the country. I think it's our priority, but there are other ideas. A senator well knows how to export energy and so forth. The priorities should be that of my own intelligence of energy exchange within the country. That way, we can make our plans out of this, which I want to call rationality, since we have a professional career to sort activation options out of the opinions I discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u23	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to be loved. Ministers should agree with it and repeat that more and more energy needs to be activated in Iceland. I think it's a milestone, considering the recent discussion. The highest quality is also positive. Minister thinks it's right that we produce as much as possible in Iceland, if I understand the highest. Minister right. But the minister seems to be primarily looking to a frame plan. Just a few days ago, it can be said that the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, has almost given up on a frame plan, at least provide a final warning if it can be said here in a speech chair against this experiment that if it is not possible to complete a frame plan, it would be better to withdraw from the whole project and take back each activation option for itself and make it available separately. Very much. The prime minister ensures that the third step of the frame plan, and then the fourth leg, will run out, and must be given sufficient initiatives to meet the need for energy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u24	Mr. President. I want to reiterate, because of the final words of which. A senator, to support the energy demand--I also want to call for us to evaluate, that politics evaluate the scenarios that are drawn up there. Some people have been more in the news than others, but I think we have every reason to discuss what we want to use the energy. What are we going to use our energy for, because it's not unlimited quality? So my vision is that there should be this clear priorities for domestic energy exchanges because I think protection between nature and climate needs to be met and that's important to me. Hv. A senator then asks about a frame plan. Well, the last frame plan was adopted when left green was in the government. Then, if I remember correctly, one option was adopted in 2015 when I had Idolization into a novelty party or some part of a frame plan. I've always considered this the best instrument, for that means we're actually looking overall on some form where we can achieve this balance, which I believe the majority of members of Congress want to achieve, between protecting nature and securing green energy for important projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u25	A respectable president. A heroic battle for their freedom has brought about an amazing solidarity of Western countries in connection with the invasion of Russia. Economic measures directed to Russia are of historical origin. Similarly, the importance of these two countries in the world's economy is now apparent in the world, resulting in a large number of manufacturing nations. The economic effects of the war will be abundant and will be spread worldwide. The economic sacrifices the Iceland needs to make, however, are not in harmony with the Ukrainian sacrifice for its freedom, but the fact is that the economy will be cut down and not harm people alike. In many ways, the sensitivity to money change may vary, and it must be the objective of the government to prevent the economic breakdown of the war from affecting young people and the land's mourning. The disaster is now 6.2%, and so far it is mainly a home that has increased by 25% in a two - year period; the second increase in the period of this government that is moving on inflation. A rising process is moving fast. We enter this situation with a large number of young people who are in debt because of excessive prices in the housing market. The fuel pot is up to 300 k. It's just the top of the iceberg. We in the United States and other groups in the smaller sections believe that the provisional income of certain groups is not too demeaning because of this financial crisis. The state has a tool for spreading this kind of stress. We have already provided suggestions on counterimproved measures for those in our homes. Supports the highest. Is the prime minister of such counter measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u26	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator said that the horrors of the people in Ukraine are being faced with something else. But this does not change the fact that we need to be aware of the economic effects that this war can have on us. Last night, a Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs was met with the Secret Bank to evaluate its impact. Hv. A senator entered an oil price that has increased nearly 20% in the wake of the invasion. This, of course, has a major impact on Europe's heating costs and electricity costs. This can increase in inflation, for all of us are closely linked. A senator came in. The situation has, of course, changed radically over the past two weeks since we were discussing the inflation right here in this hall and how we will deal with it. We can see that the economic improvement will be slower and faster than it once looked. On the other hand, we're at that spot, so you look inwardly at our interests, that oil prices have been good, and so has a good price for exported seafood. But if it reduces the economic benefits in Iceland's major business countries by Covid, it can have an effect here. This knows why. A senator and this knows why. Senators. We do not yet know how travel can be affected, how wars are affected, and how countries are likely to be affected. In the case of specific actions, it is my opinion that we should take special note of those who have failed. Icelandic homes in general are doing well because money has grown. Private consumption has been very low in the real estate population. But what needs to be looked at is the rent market and the people who have not been able to access real estate. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in early buyers, but it does not change that going into this market is still very heavy. [[The president calls.]] That is why I have set out a special group on the premises to be given proposals now on April 1, which should especially evaluate the status of those whose feet are on that market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the economic review, but there was little need for answers on what to do now. I'd like to reiterate that we're a couple of months old numbers. We're talking about what's going on now and the next month. There is a possibility that these prices will be exposed to collective negotiations during the fall, and it is simply a responsible economic regime to try to get ahead of this problem. Although I'm interested in the fact that there are possible changes in the housing market, we all know that there's a long-term project inside. It will take years to wind down conditions on the housing market. In the meantime, there are people, sensitive groups at the highest level. Indeed, the prime minister claims to be on hand, on his feet. We're going to see this show up in the fall of a bargain. Then we'll get back the interaction between pay and prices known to us here. Will the government take advantage of specific measures to prevent us from returning to an inflation? I reiterate the question, what will the government do over the next few weeks, not during this terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. Similarly, a senator is eager to review economic and collective agreements. Of course, it matters how to achieve a bargain agreement, and I was starting a meeting of the National Congress this morning, where just one member of the labour market is sitting, and the preparations are long started. That's even where we're at. to talk about the survival of people whose housing issues have been largely important because governments can use it to influence both economic developments and also the standard of living, since this is such a major factor in what each individual needs to contribute. That's why the campaign team is on its way, and that's why he's going to turn in the spring months because I agree completely with what he says. A senator that we have done very much in recent years, this government, in developing more intensively into the housing market through the founding laws, through the share loans. It needs to be examined how we can build on top of it, for it is perfectly clear that housing matters are welfare, and the presence of the government is needed to ensure that all roofs are above the head. [[The president calls.]] There are certain groups with their right feet, as I came to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u29	A respectable president. Vasculitis is measured today by 6.2%. A third of that inflation can be attributed to rising housing prices. House prices have recently increased to power, and there are many examples of fortune - telltaleism in an apartment market. It is advertised only a few months after the sale of far higher prices and the main analysts predict a continuing lack of housing. The house - to - house team has a chain effect on housing prices, resulting in devastating effects on the homes. The families who are stuck with securities loans may watch their share shrink by one month. In addition, there is an increase in house - to - house spending. The contracts are typically indexed, so rent increases dramatically in those who have not been able to access a housing market. The biographies are overrun. Clearly, immediate action is needed to protect homes from the harshest effects of inflation. The people's party want the index number housing. We have provided a bill for the current economic and business coverage. V.E.G. The minister of wood has also expressed his opinion that it is necessary to remove the staff from the index. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is she in agreement with The Gang of the People and the Supreme One? The secretary of the wood for the need to take the staff out of the index and will she support the subject's bill to Flock's people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry related to the above. I would like to refer to the group that has been initiated to offer further suggestions. I'd like to remind you that the success that has been achieved in ensuring extra housing will be due to the development of this group when it was last installed, 2019. Through these proposals, growth of foundimprovement, changes in the administrative structure of the government, the Homing and Manicults Office has been established as a key policy party when it comes to the market and then we were assigned to the share loans. So this group has started again. The parameters are different now than they were then; they are especially linked to prices, but they are as lacking in supply. And because of what? A member in particular makes it a subject of the index team's facilities, I think that the root of the problem is much more a lack of supply, because we're here at the Habitat's crowds, and we're looking at predictions of the apartments on the market and we're seeing this not going together. Although government support was actually part of a third of all new apartments in the last two years, there is not enough housing to be built. That's a lot to think about. We need to consider how we can come in with even greater power in order to ensure this offer. When it comes to the index complex, it was taken up for a detailed discussion during the last term. In collaboration with the labour market partners, this assessment was conducted by a special expert on the index issues. The result was, and on this point, all parties, including workers, were agreeing not to take the staff out of the index, that would not be a solution to the problem. We need to look at the root of the problem, Mr. President, and that's where we need to see the supply of housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u31	A respectable president. So the answer is that the staff should not be removed from the index number because the root of the problem is lack of an offer of a living facility that is once again causing an increase in the index? How is the rise in the country to blame? How can it be justified to reason on the problem of lack of housing, which is primarily to the authorities, whether the government or the local government, on the people? Isn't the government going to take any general action? Should all of these be specific for certain groups? What are you going to do for young people? What is to be done to resist a fortune - teller who drives up the apartment prices? What is to be done to increase the provision of apartments, since this group simply didn't work at all? And when? How's the top? Will the early prime minister of autumn's tribunal talks, be all that looks, without any practical intervention by the government, as if taking the mortgage out of the index? [[The president calls.]] People need action now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u32	Mr. President. The group to whom I quoted, as it were. A senator doesn't feel anything. He's appointed to be represented by the people, i.e. The presence of representatives of the political, labor movement, professional drivers, rural society They are sitting there together, making good suggestions last time, giving large amounts of money on an apartment. It has rarely been built more than in those years because of the coming of the government, the government. Let us bear in mind, Mr. President, when we discuss these matters -- hence, I'm not saying that the problem is solved -- that when we make decisions about operations, we also need to be sure that they will be supportive to those who exactly need it, and I've discussed it here before. In particular, I would like to mention those who are in a rented market, both disloyal but also very sensitive to prices, as well as those outside the real estate and who are unable to enter real estate. That's why we started the stock loans. They've been successful, and we need to consider such measures, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u33	A respectable president. When refugees are applying for international protection, they have the right to be appointed spokesman. A spokesman under the law speaks the candidate's language and protects his interests in the treatment of the case with the Icelandic government. Since 2014, lawyers on the Red Cross in Iceland have fulfilled this role. Recently, it took the highest. The Minister of Justice will decide in a special way, and I'm going to allow myself to state with a certain disrespect for the Red Cross and with candidates for international protection on the land, not to extend the agreement with the Red Cross on this service. The arrangement that is now discovered to be accepted is so that the Foreign Institute appoints a spokesman from a group of lawyers from abroad. Then, on the Homepage of the Foreign Institute, it says, with permission of the President: A good return evaluation. In order to ensure the quality of the service, a professional return evaluation will be carried out with the purchases, where the National Institute of Foreign Affairs will evaluate the performance of spokesmen. The evaluation of a spokesman's performance will include whether a spokesman's practice contributed to an effective hearing and fair payment, whether interviews and data release have been characterised by professionalism and conscientiousness, and whether a spokesman has responded well if there was any suggestion on recovery issues. In view of this, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice whether he cannot see the obvious conflict of interest in this professional return evaluation, whether he feels that this is a law in relation to the role of a spokesman. But most of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: This was a truly beautiful return assessment of the past and will be done with the highest degree. Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u34	A respectable president. First of all, I make comments to what's going on here. A senator, that this decision, to alter the services of those seeking refuge, was taken in a way that was disrespectfully and disrespectfully to refugees and the Red Cross of Iceland. This, however, is in harmony with another presentation of people in these matters, where they try to present gruels and claims that do not hold back and that are not logical. It asks whether the measurable criteria that have been published and established by the National Institute of Iceland, to evaluate future work of those who accept this speech service, under contract with the Agency, have been prepared with less awareness and my consent, and if I consider them to be adequate. I had not seen these criteria anything special before they were published, rather than this advertisement that appeared to advertise the lawyers, lawyers, to perform our legal service with those who seek to ask for protection. I suppose there is a lot of professional knowledge in the Agency about this procedure, and I assume that there is some of the things that the institutions believe must be fundamental to the success of the services as the most efficient. It is only natural for the Agency to publish some of these assessments, so those who take those jobs in the future will know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice for the Answer, although he did not answer one of my questions, is it because he believes that this standard is in the light of the applicant's role for international protection, where it is the Foreign Institute that monitors whether spokesmen are meeting themselves, whether the Agency feels that they are doing a conscientious work? This will not be understood as different from the Agency's view that if they do not act against the agency, they will be able to stop ordering certain lawyers. The second question I wanted to direct to the highest. The Minister of Justice is whether he would count - if we were to compare this with other cases where governments order people to a spokesman or a defender, such as in criminal matters - the natural thing is that lawyers could be taken off the list of potential lawyers, possibly defencers, if they didn't take orders from the police and held up against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u36	A respectable president. Whether the criteria established by the Foreign Institute are to measure the results that are in cooperation with certain lawyers, how they do their work with institutions that are established, legal, or noncommunications - I have not heard any differences in the fact that there is a law. In fact, I believe it is very normal for the Agency to provide some guidelines on how the service is measured in terms of buying services from lawyers in town. In my opinion it is normal for them to be published so that all parties know what is checked to reevaluate whether this service is purchased again. Regarding whether or not the police should order an attorney and should be able to control it - I'm not going to involve it in this discussion. I don't worry that those matters are not being carried out with zeal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u37	A respectable president. I am moved to speak up to this team. Now that's what happens here at the council, we're going to get into a storm, right now. The prime minister is asked for housing and action in behalf of less - income homes and in debt homes, specifically suggesting that the people in the rented market are the worst, and that they need to have their sleeves boarded and taken action. It refers to a group on housing issues that are involved, etc. When the biographer contract was signed in 2019, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter made certain promises to those of this group, promises of rights for tenants, of specific limits on the sudden rise in rent prices, determined defenses against this insane tenet. That case was presented in the last term almost a few days, two weeks at the most, before the end of the council. It was not even recommended, and it obviously did not exist. [[The president calls.]] Now it was due to be in January, according to the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] There's still nothing to worry about, so I'd like to ask. Mr President, how is this note coming up? [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be fascinating to hear from government officials as well as government officials whether these are just words about tenants or whether this will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u38	The president cannot answer this question at the site, but he should get information on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with these comments. A senator, here comes up the same answer; it's a board that's being appointed, it's named, in progress. People seem to be needing Congress to contribute. A few weeks ago, at the government stand, we proposed a pact resolution to these groups. If people need ideas, they're real. They're always recycling the same monasteries, getting the same group to the table, and then nothing happens. The facts are being dejected, in fact, repeated facts that do not meet opinions. We heard yesterday, from Housing and Civilization Institutes to form, that this third of the public apartments supposed to have been built last year was no third, that was simply the goal. It is being quoted from an old promise that has not been fulfilled, and so is the same promise again. I agree with that. A senator: Where are these matters? Don't you just want to do that, chief. Government, consenting to our synonym?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u40	V.E.G. President. I agree with my partners in the United States. We need to start seeing these tops of government and these government issues. We're out in March, it was chosen in September if I remember correctly, and there must be something going on running away from this government. Better now. I live under the experience of being a member of the campaign group, which gave proposals to the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir two years ago over 40 housing proposals. Some of these have been taken into account by the labor movement, which put heavy emphasis on tenants'housing status, heavy emphasis. There have been no suggestions. And that does not mean coming up here day after day, using a phrase about something that may have happened or the goal has been when those goals have not been met. I challenge the highest. President, now putting the reins on the government and making something happen here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u41	A respectable president. I want to agree with those who have spoken here: Operation is needed immediately. It wasn't my intention here, and I think the highest. The prime minister had known that he would belittle those mentioned in this group, but there was no action, nothing. I've seen a bill of payment since January 2020 for renting $200,000. Two years later, same family, same house: bill of $310,000. If you look at it, the rent goes up by 20,000 bucks. and more on top of everything else. We're having a heart-to-heart conversation this fall. The government has in mind how the labor movement is coming to play, whether it is going to be there knowing that something has been done or if it has been done, and then there's a reason for it, if nothing has been done. I'm going to say that there are requirements to improve people every cent of this is reasonable because it's completely foolish to ask for something that doesn't cover expenses. But I ask the government to do something as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u42	President. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. The Constitution is an extremely important document for the General. Here comes the government and tells what cases the Senate needs to prepare for. From experience, it never works. It's a useless piece of paper. It doesn't exactly help us to prepare and organize our work here, nothing. As far as I'm concerned, it's the President to be a bit hard on the fact that this Senate file is being held over. This should be a fixed contract of the Commission to the council: This is what you need to prepare for and plan for. It is the President who will have to enforce this Convention agreement because this is our work and our time to prepare us for a project that the government claims to put before the council. Then nothing comes. It is a waste of time for us to be preparing for something that is so often broken. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I propose to the highest. President to show this now a serious understanding and to follow the government on how the Constitution is conducted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u43	A respectable president. As I entered earlier, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, together with the 2019 biographers, promised it to the highest level. A member of the Department of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, would represent law change, it was supposed to happen during the last term, in order to protect tenants, these vulnerable groups as high as possible. Prime Minister cares so much for rent prices. That promise was betrayed during the last term. Then the minister gave this bill, I've checked it, two days before the end of the council, late enough to make sure it's not approved. Left behind are tenants, defenseless in a full - scale tenement. The bill was now due to be shown. January 31st. It's March 10th and there's no sign of the bill at all. Even while we talk about it, the prime minister does not see why sitting in the hall. [[The president calls.]] Still, she answers all questions about dress and shelters by pointing to problems for tenants. [[The president calls.]] What is done for this group? Nothing. [[The president calls.]] It's all a fake, it's a fake. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u44	Mr. President. It's hard enough to draw answers from counsellors with rags. To get them to make a case, they may need more active tools, drawing their feet, and pointing them into groups of consultations. There are a lot of basics from the government position that could be approved. But the old trick is likely to be used: We cannot accept something suggested by the government. We will do as was done in the case of a bill on the prohibition against oil - seeking, which is why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who did not get paid, is then in the Constitution now, so it's not about illegal consumption doses, but it's not. Halldóra Mogensen's senator. The question must be, How do we work here? Who are we working for, both councilmen and ministers? We must encourage those in charge to look into situations that come from the government position that may be likely to solve the problems the Agency has at least Talk about the need to fix it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u45	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to celebrate the extent of the economic discussion at the council. It's a long time, and it's a pleasure to see recruits here on economic issues of great weight and passion, even making excellent suggestions. In other words, inflation has become 6.2%, and half of that increase is the housing team. But what's happening there? Of course, there is a lack of opportunities for housing. And who will be responsible for the lack of supply here in the capital area? Well, it's the Conspiracy now. I'm going to propose it to what? paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir offers a social meeting in Reykjavík and conduct the campaign at the mayor's office in Reykjavík on that fine man, Dagur Eggertsson Emegersson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u46	A respectable president. No one needs to be surprised that we are discussing the Constitution of the government. This has been an annual event since my arrival at the council, all dismayed in late, late, and later, and all is a nostalgic. We must also realize that the council is a somewhat strange institution. A law on the affairs of the disabled, legally binding of the United Nations Convention - it has not been completed. At that time, cases of the elderly were accepted - gone. It seems that there is no way to agree with the law or to get a Constitution. But we must not forget, in terms of the rent market, that the worst-case situation is people who are on the lowest social security benefits and who have to pay rent. These are the people who did not have any elevations in the past but at most 1% less than inflation and afterwards. These are the people who are now stumbling, and these are the people who are supposed to help, but the government is not going to help at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u47	A respectable president. V.E.G. In a talk earlier, the prime minister said that the root of the problem is a lack of housing. Government Ministers in Iceland have apparently agreed to blame all of this on the mayors of Reykjavík, although the more part may have done the best part in Iceland in assigning property. There's another thing I'd like to mention here. The lack of housing cannot be solved tomorrow, but money can be added to the transfer system to support those who are in pain because of the problem that has come up. I refer to housing support as the highest. Well, Minister of Wood just wanted to kill. I think the government should look closer and look at the possibilities it can use to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u48	The president points out that beating the pontula constantly may be interfering with the recording.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u49	Mr. President. Government Constitution is a document that would be appreciated. I'd like to give you one example of an environmental and transport committee. On January 31, the committee was able to receive a bill of the global re-examination of the telecommunications song for enormous interests, as we saw well in the Milan case. The fact that the current government has struggled to end the two last session, it's just dangerous. It involves not only consumers but also security and all kinds of interests. Now it's the highest. The university, industrial, and innovation minister is almost six weeks ahead of us with that matter, so we may not see the end of that matter at this council either. And well to mark, this is one of five cases in the top section. A minister and one of two who have not been crossed out and all she should have brought. [[The president calls.]] By the end of the year, it's the highest. Ministers do not produce the only case she has set aside this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u50	A respectable president. The union could possibly. conducted a social conference on how well it has been done, in various communities directed by the United States, to promote public development. I can count to Reykjavík, Smokejanes, Akureyri, Isafjörður. This is about the proportion of apartments and how well - built - 50% of new apartments that have been built over the past two years are in Reykjavík, where only about one third of the population lives. What's it like in the rural communities where there's an advance in the board? In Hafnarfjörður, there has been some of them. little or nothing happened in housing all this time. It's just another turn-out when it comes to government housing. The finger is always directed to the rural communities as if nothing can happen to the government on these matters. Why don't we introduce the percentages of social apartments in rural society? Why not look at the fact that these are briefcase contractors carrying weights and refusing to build on them? There is no need for the same contractor to build on these areas, as is the case in the countries around us, and this has become an investment tool. There's plenty to do with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u51	Mr. President. It's the highest entrance. A minister has insignificance that I have seen for quite a long time. It has been quite a statement, and it has even joined us in some aspect of the government opposition, but it has been reassigned by both the Chairman of the Independence Party and the Left Green. Her play has forced the advance team to come up here in a pit and lie, and that's what he did last week. The facts speak for themselves. We have countless data to show the situation here in Reykjavík and elsewhere. Four out of every five apartments intended for chemical people are based here on the capital area, which is much higher than the national ratio. The media may want to see how the situation is in Hafnarfjörður. Here are members of the council at the town council in Hafnarfjörður, where they would interview and talk about Reykjavík. I think maybe they should answer for Hafnarfjordur. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And because of what? I'm going to leave this table right here in front of him. [Applause and laughter in the chamber.]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u52	Hv. Councilmen are admonished that it is not appropriate to clap at a church hall. Senators must adjust only.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u53	V.E.G. President. We have truly met on a swift spot with the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir and the indentation of the highest. The Minister of Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir may not be surprised because we know of the Polish candidate party. It's based on broken phrases and promises that are never fulfilled, and the same is true in rural governments as in the government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] So it is in every unit in my district, the Southwestern district, where the advance party is in several more parts, where people are all down in the construction of new apartments, and this knows members of Congress who sit in here and also sit in the local government. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]] It is so unfortunate to point to the capital, which is behind the construction of this country, under the construction of social apartments, under social assistance, and below, and with the most wealthy of the people in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u54	President. Here comes the highest. Minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, and former highest. Prime Minister, who spoke of the success of the share loans. Last night, at a meeting of the Board of Shepherds and Human Resources, they said they were not working very well, not at all, for a number of reasons, good and bad. This journal repeatedly claims that it is somehow a city of Reykjavík to teach that housing is a problem. First, there is a fortune - teller. The predictions were simply wrong, the rural communities operate on them, and this is very normal. They can't be blamed. However, it is possible to focus on how and how they were performed, and it shows itself better than expected by the forecasts. Reykjavík lives in 35% of the population. Reykjavík is building 40% of apartments. In neighboring communities, 28% of the population is building 28% of apartments, not 35% or anything like that, not beyond the percentage of the population. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No, that's what Reykjavík is doing, in excess of his ratio, of a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u55	A respectable president. I also wanted to respond only to the highest words. Minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. It appears to us a bit strangely this new advance policy of the Agency, which has so far spoken of the fact that it should be developed abroad on land and people's currents to the capital is not necessarily what we want, when the fact is that Reykjavíkurburg has built more than a relative number of national bison and has been doing long enough. Other rural areas in the capital area are all down in this, especially Hafnarfjörður, especially Garvell, especially Kópavogur, and especially Mosfellstown. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] It's amazing to hear that. [[The president calls.]] In addition, three out of every four social apartments are built in Reykjavík, and here they are speaking empty junk and concrete. The media is requesting that buildings and new buildings be partially reassigned in Reykjavík. This means that by the proportion of the population of the whole country, the country will be reduced. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u56	A respectable president. I'm calm, I'm not gonna hit you in a punk and I'm gonna apologize for that. But when we stand here in a circus, talking about who did what and who didn't do what, at the same time as outside, people who see their bill rise by tens of thousands each month, low-payers who have tried to get a roof over their heads because it was promised to have a low-growing environment. Now he's sitting with this thing in his arms. He doesn't know what to do. The solution can be taken right now. Let's step up and support this group. We have a transfer system. Let's make use of them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u57	A respectable president. I just don't remember that it's been such a big shock to a council for a long time and I want to thank the government stand for it. [[It's up to us all the time.]] Not as much as we do, actually, as we're in government. With President's permission, I'm only going to quote the last money matter of Iceland's Federal Bank: The annual increase in apartment prices in the capital area was 18.4% in December. but it increased substantially over the past year with a very large increase in sea level. 18.4% and this continues to rise because of lack of housing. It doesn't mean anything for people to come here in a pita and talk about proportions. Understandably, the more part is in Reykjavíkurburg, rejuvenate, Piratar, and the Controversy, and it's about proportions, but it's not enough. [[Up front.]] This is not enough for young people who need to be in their homes. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] They need a place to stay, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u58	A respectable president. Although it would be nice to discuss the matter of the capital and the city of Reykjavík, it may not belong to the President's conference board. Here we go. A senator asking for a position on a bill that I expect to be distributed at the council today and if not today, then tomorrow, a very important telecommunications bill that has been taken into account. due to comments published by the Environment and Transport Committee which handled matters in February that needed to be considered. It was directed to the Committee to review specific issues relating to emergency and security exchange. The bill is ready and will be submitted to the council, if not today, so to speak. A senator no longer needs to wait for the exciting and important bill that I place high hopes of running out quickly and safely, which is important for communication security, competitiveness, and, above all, online security. And then I'll remind you why. Councilmen courtesy of the fact that the success of a minister is not measured by a number of bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u59	A respectable president. There has been an interesting discussion of housing in the capital area. I am kindly and obliged to come up here, and I see that there have been papers left for me that were once unbecoming. But in all this discussion, we need to look at the facts. The name has been given Hafnarfjordur, but the situation is simply that there are all lands in Hafnarfjörður Fjordur. We don't have any areas to build up. All of these weights have been divided, the terms have been set up, and the structure has been launched with great force. These are 7,000 apartments for 17,000 people. The only group that owns a new building is Reykjavík, and I recommend that you do it. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson go and speak to his mayor and encourage him to build up in the city. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u60	Senators are asked to settle their cases outside the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u61	Mr. President. Now, inflation is up, growth is up, rent prices are rising automatically, loans are raised, and these are aggravating on people who cannot cope with such changes. I want to point the top. Minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir in a fine article published in the reactor following the Sigurður Guðmundsson strategyicist, covering expenses for social activities in the capital area. The conclusion is that in 2020, Reykjavíkurburg paid two thirds higher to members of the community than any other community in the capital area. [[Up front.]] I don't think the people who don't make ends meet are allowed to listen to claims from loose air at the highest level. Counsellors, rather, should do what they have to do. paritaprevir Guðbrandsson said earlier, activate the transfer systems that are, for interest benefits, housing, and child support. [[The president calls.]] [[... manrh.: Wrong.]] [[... manrh.: False]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u62	A respectable president. It was interesting to learn that a council member of the Council of Smoking and the Supreme Court. There's not much to find a minister in the city. I don't live in the city, but I think it's great to see how this city is developing, how it's generally developing in the city like that. While planning, it is also interesting to examine the figures and contributions and the performance of the city when we look to other rural groups, including My home society, Hafnarfjörður. It has been observed here that there are three fourths or 76% organized in Reykjavík. Yet only 56% of the population lives there. I don't know how many times the mayor of Hafnarfjörður has paid the thirty thousandest residents of Hafnarfjörður but we're always 29,600, then we're back up there, but we've been down in the season. During the initial period of independence and forwarding classes in Hafnarfjörður, the population of Hafnarfjörður has declined. Is that all the advice and activity? [[Up front.]] It's just that the people... [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] During the season of Hafnarfjörður, did the population increase? [[The president calls.]] No, they dropped. These are just numbers on paper, but numbers have never been the strongest side of advancement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u63	The president asks why. Councilmen giving speakers an opportunity to finish their speech, and they also ask the speakers to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u64	Mr. President. This is now an interesting discussion of housing matters in the capital area that the president has been very well pleased to discuss. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It may be nice to review the numbers for advance. It's the greatest building session in Reykjavík's home in history. Nearly 1,300 apartments were approved last year. What Reykjavíkurburg does, I hear that Hafnarfjörður does not, is to think of the future. Here we go. paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, who has a good time marking the town council of Hafnarfjörður, said they're just done, it's just been done. There's nothing left. Were the estates of Hafnarfjörður only to 2020, they're not going to do anything in town after that time? Where's the long-term view? Where's the organization? Where's the house plan? What's up? There is no word in Hafnarfjörður, where attention is controlled. [[The president calls.]] But since socialism is controlled in Reykjavík, there has never been more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u65	Mr. President. This is where we've talked about housing. I'm gonna let myself change the subject and discuss something that I might think the President would agree more with me to hear the President's conference manager. Here earlier, I came up and requested that Mr. President explain what he was going to do to stop the federal government from the council and another incident. A senator asked for information on what was involved in the relationship that the president had already had for this purpose. Since the answers were not addressed specifically to the second question, I'm just going to reiterate that question to the highest level. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u66	The president agrees this will be subject to the President's conference board. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] But little has taken place in these matters since the first question was posed before today's 11th. It says that the president will continue conversations in an effort to resolve the issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u67	A respectable president. This discussion will always be more interesting as others speak up. What I've simply been pointing to in this discussion, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson clearly does not know the area of the capital area to 2040. This work has always been an active part of the harbor town. What we've been saying is that we can't expand more, we both have to break a new land and a firm rock. þm. Helga Vala, immediately built. [[A little bit.]] That is exactly what is happening in Hafnarfjörður. [[Up front.]] That is exactly what is happening in Hafnarfjörður. Yes, Reykjavík has territories for new buildings and is to take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u68	A respectable president. My beloved fendant Hafnarfjörður is here to discuss. I am a resident of Hafnarfjördur. It is simply a matter of fact that under the control of independents and candidates, we have declined, including. Chairman of the City Council of Hafnarfjörður This is just the situation and speaking of vision, the vision was no more than in town that it was not to be mentioned in front of the word of the city. So all of a sudden, the town is awakened to life, but that doesn't make any difference, because at the time of the city's end, we're very close. There was no ambition in the beginning. There was ambition in Kopavogi. It's got two lines for what, 2027 or 2028? However, we are not allowed to see a city line that is crucial to building dense areas, in order to achieve a powerful work at home in Hafnarfjörður, until 2033, 2034, 2035, because ambition was absolute. A city line was not to be mentioned, as we see in the government Treaty, nor is it mentioned there. [[The president calls.]] This is all the vision at home in Hafnarfjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u69	President. On my birthday, 2018, it was signed under a total software contract with Microsoft, justified by 200 million annual savings. My work on a financial committee has clearly revealed that there is no savings. In turn, the view that other software has been successful, Teams and so forth, especially in the epidemic and the like, so that signing this contract may well have been positive. In terms of saving, I guess not. At any rate, I find it normal, and the members of the council here are signing a request for a report, asking them to do the job: What are the profits and benefits of signing these contracts and locking the state into partnership with one company? It is quite a responsibility, and it does not necessarily save or earn from it. [[The president calls.]] This area is on the move, and if there is a new trend, it must be acted quickly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'm asking for a report to see how this case takes place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u70	Mr. President. The opening words of the Foreign Minister's speech to the General from this chair last year provide fine testimony to the transientness of life. Then my predecessor spoke of the epidemic that is now at the end of the world. This was not so, though almost everyone concluded when the vaccines were in sight. In 2021, the global crowning virus may not be until the last few weeks, as well as most of our neighboring countries, have taken the last steps out of situations characterized by disease prevention and fear of epidemics. But don't take better. It was small if some time to finally lose our ability to reflect on the epidemic, when the Russian invasion of Ukraine again overturned our world scene. Although little more than an invasion of foreign affairs is currently going to happen, this is going to be a more broad area. This report is 2021. This report on international and international issues, which are being submitted annually to the General Assembly, is now in the form of a summary and the top priority of a standard Parliamentary report, on the other hand, a comprehensive report. Parliamentaries have been handed over, but it is marked by the calendar wound. This change will allow the report to be submitted earlier in the year, making it easier for you to do better and to read more easily, but it will also increase in time to conform in this important information. I encourage Congress to examine the complete report, as it provides a great insight into Iceland's work on a global scale. Unfortunately, the prospect of international affairs cannot be ignored for a long time. Aside from the Russian war effort in Europe, there is still considerable potential for a pandemic. The economic problems associated with the epidemic have resulted in greater need, especially in poorer countries. After the pandemic season, there was an increase in the number of very few in number for the first time for two decades. The increase is over 100 million. In many cases, high school failures, vaccinations due to serious infectious diseases have been upset, and there have been relapses in the fields of equality and human rights. Because of natural disasters and armed conflicts, more people today need humanitarian assistance than ever before. This is happening around the world, and it is by no means confined to the areas that are best discussed in the news. At the beginning of this year, the United Nations estimated that some 274 million people needed humanitarian assistance and protection during the year 2022, or 39 million more than the previous year. These numbers are expected to increase as the year passes. More than 1% of mankind are on the run, some 84 million people, and the number of people who have the opportunity to return to their homes is constantly reduced. Some 85% of refugees are in developing countries. Some 811 million people live in malnutrition and famine in 38 lands. Of these, people in South Sudan, Yemen, northern Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Nigeria are in special danger. The situation in Afghanistan after the hearings have taken place is shocking. Human rights, especially the rights of women, have been confined there, but the economy has also collapsed, causing some half of the 40 million people to live in hunger. In the Central Sahel area of Africa, there is a growing need, where there is political and religious conflict, the consequences of climate change and crime in which the plight of people is practical for profit. It should be noted, then, that in many areas, there is reason to be concerned about the evolution of human rights. Governments in various countries have taken refuge in the fact that democratic provisions are small in order to limit the use of disease - borne rights to individuals in the name of the disease. The same situation took place, on different levels, around the world, including in countries where respect for civil rights is deeply rooted in society and national soul. I have expressed my concern about this development and how limited discussions have taken place regarding the deterioration of these rights. Several important projects will be lost to Iceland's foreign service soon. This includes: mention prehumanity in the European Parliament and a session for the Management Board of UNESCO. While there is a small percentage of foreign service in comparison with larger countries, we will fulfill our role as a worthy nation who wants to be a valid international participants - to be a sovereign nation among the sovereign nations. In the years to come, foreign service projects will likely become bigger and more challenging. In this regard, what is more important is to promote cooperation with the kingdoms closest to us in regard to our interests and ideals. In 2021 an increase in tension and instability was marked by international systems, democracies, and common values. This also applies to the order of security for Europe in recent decades. Russia's military development in and in Ukraine was at the highest, increasing the inexplicability of officials in the Kremlin of the international field. Iceland's Member States to the Atlantic Alliance and the United States defence agreements are the cornerstones of national security policy. Then Iceland has worked hard to improve consultation and cooperation with the Norwegian countries and other similar countries, which share common interests in the north. Iceland will continue to highlight its contribution for the protection of the Agency, including by ensuring the equipment and hostilities of the U.S. and other member states of the Atlantic Union, which are available in security areas but also through increased participation in Community cohesion projects, e.g. by sending Icelandic experts to the field. Iceland has organized itself into similar countries, Atlantic alliances, norse friends and others who share values with us and a view of the security challenges we face. There was increased weight in cooperation with security and protection issues on these challenges, on the scene of the Atlantic Community and in regional cooperation, such as the North American Defense Association, the North Side, and the Common Response Force, which we call JEF, the United Kingdom and Iceland became a party in April last year. In September, the joint resolution of defense cooperation was signed by Iceland and Sweden. The preparation of Iceland's involvement into the Eastern Atlantic Community on Internet security has begun in Tallinn, and in December Iceland was introduced into the European pan-European pan-European environment on multi-item issues in Helsinki Versus Safety Status, with increased work in the Northern Atlantic and North Atlantic countries, and increased scope of the work in the Kefavik safety area. As we have seen, Iceland is zealously joined by democracies who accept respect for human rights, democracy, equality, and freedom. It is the strands that are interwoven with all the international work of Iceland. At the scene of international institutions, such as the United Nations, the European Security and Cooperation Organization, and the European Commission, the Icelandic government makes these values very clear. Iceland's voice is strong internationally. It was heard loud and clear as we entered the United Nations Human Rights Council. So we've decided to volunteer power in the Council of Human Rights again, during the 2025-027 period. We will continue to use ourselves for the rights of queer people, the sex rights and rights of children, to name something. The Icelandic government provides an international sex - violence policy in the process of race of equality, or in English, by permission of presidents, Generation Earthforum. This year's main focus was on the Community and the shape of commitments to action and projects. The prime minister introduced the commitments in July and subject them both to measures aimed at eliminating sexual violence and sexual harassment here on land and on projects carried out by international cooperation and development cooperation. In the fall of the year, we become the head of the Council of Europe. Thus, the work of the Human Rights Council will have the heavy responsibility of providing the Council of Presidency at this time requires a deep understanding of human rights and political conditions in Europe. The task ends with a conference of ministers in Reykjavík in the spring of 1923 as foreign ministers of all Member States are invited to attend. Developing cooperation is one of the main sources of Icelandic foreign policy and lays the groundwork for Iceland's international development team in 2019-2023. The UN's global objective is a guide in reducing poverty and hunger and promoting general well - being on the basis of human rights, sex equality and sustainable development. Developmental contributions increased over the year, as they have done in recent years. There is support for two-way cooperation countries, regional projects and international institutions in the field of development and humanitarian cooperation. At that time, there has been a marked increase in cooperation with professional life and the growth of a free organization. The effectiveness, transparency, and professional management of development activities are highlighted in accordance with international standards of professional practice. In accordance with Iceland's market policies, the United Nations Children's Fund, UNICEF, the United Nations Organization for Sex Equalities and the Mobility of Women, which we often call UN Women, the Population Fund of the United Nations, and the International Index for Family Development. There is considerable cooperation with these institutions in our African cooperation countries. President. The response and resistance to the Covid-19 pandemic was prominent in the global development team during the year. The Icelandic government has been speaking from the beginning of the epidemic for the importance of international cooperation on the development and production of vaccinees and for the same access to countries independent of their ability to pay. That was the case with Iceland during the second time 500 million people. K. to the COVAAX co-work involved in the purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine doses for developing countries. An additional 250 million. K. provide a human spray pump (UNICEF) due to a Covid-19 vaccine interaction. In these cases, the Ministry of Health and the State Department have worked together to administer overdoses of Covid-19 chemical vaccines through COVAAX. This year, a period in which a representative of Iceland, Geir H. Haarde, appointed the company of the principal representatives of the district of Northern and Baltic States of the International Bank. The bank is the most powerful evolutionary organization in the world. In response to the urgent need for financial support because of the pandemic, funding for the International Agency, IDA, was accelerated and the commitment of the most extensive contributions in the history of the Agency was available in December. Iceland's share accounts for about 1.8 billion. in three years since 2023. The cooperation with Malawi and Uganda, where Icelandic e - mail offices are active, has been the focus of Iceland's two - side development team for years. In both countries, married partnerships with regional governments are gaining weight. By means of the Icelandic government, some 50,000 children have benefited from improved study environments, and tens of thousands of women have enjoyed improved birth service. A post office in Sierra Leone, on the west coast of Africa, is about to be opened in the fall. In the past, we have enjoyed development projects in fishing villages along the Atlantic Coast. They take steps to improve fish production, water supply, and hygiene, health care, and other progressive matters that build a foundation for the process. One of our main tasks will be to root out an ossuary in the country by means of prevention, health care, and social support. A birth thistle is especially dangerous for young mothers who are badly damaged at birth and are simply cast out of society. It is a joy that the Icelanders can thus have a real and positive effect on the lives of women who live in miserable conditions in one of the poorest countries in the world. For years, the Ministry of State has had good and productive cooperation with the European Community for the development and humanitarian work. In recent years, there has been a setting of development and humanitarian assistance that ensures that professional tasks are being strengthened. Total ran over 500 million. K. in cooperation with a group that is somewhat equal between humanitarian projects and development aid. Many of these organizations are now playing a key role in responding to the plight that has developed in and in Ukraine. National cooperation is one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy and, as a group, the North countries have a strong voice on a global scale. In the government contract, by permission of the president, the European Commission continues to play a fundamental role in the international cooperation of Iceland. The so - called N5 group is a scene where representatives of the Northern countries meet regularly and generally feel very secure. It is safe to say that the cooperation of Iceland with the Northern countries is invaluable for Iceland, especially in times of trial. This is repeated in civil service projects during periods of stress and danger, but civil services played a key role in the evacuation of people from Afghanistan and in many aspects of the pandemic. An increasing emphasis on the Western cooperation can be seen in two comprehensive reports published in 2021. On the one hand, it is the communication between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, which have proposals to improve cooperation with the Faeroe Islands. There are many means of promoting a further twofold link and cooperation, especially in economic, cultural, and political fields. However, a report published by the European Union as part of Greenland and Iceland, which contains a number of suggestions for increasing cooperation with Greenland. On May 19, 2021, and the following day the two - year Presidency of Iceland in the North Pole met with a minister in Darla. Both events marked a turning point for Iceland's work to deal with the north. Despite the limitations and difficulties of leading a global career during a pandemic, Iceland was able to make peace with both the Declaration of the Council of Arctic Minister and the first conference of the Council to ten years. Both the declaration and the future policy stress the climate crisis. At Parliamentary resolution, of Iceland's policy in northern affairs, the minister of state is assigned to shape a policy strategy. The preparation of that work began formally with a meeting of a local representative at the Ministry of State on February 10th. At policy level, there is also a difference between the two of us. magazine on making sustainable use of potential economic opportunities and promoting business and other cooperation in the north, especially with Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. Climate change, resource and environment are fundamental interest issues for the world. Iceland is strongly involved in international activities to find ways to contribute. Emphasis is now once again placed on clean, sustainable energy, especially in the greater use of geothermal heat, pure energy carriers such as green hydrogen and hydrogen products, as well as inintegration, disposal and use of carbon dioxide. This year more work was put in touch and information to the e - mail office so that they would be better equipped to find opportunities for Icelandic employment for the next few years in green innovations and technology. Sustainable development, with emphasis on climate, resource and environment, was the main theme of Iceland's prehuman development programmes in the Northern Union and the Arctic Council. At the scene of international institutions and development cooperation, climate issues and sustainable use of natural resources are an important factor. The challenges and adaptation measures for climate change will become more important in Iceland's cooperation in developing cooperation. For example, over the last ten years, some half a million people have already been given access to clean water through the government of the United States. During the year, the sea's affairs gained greater weight and consultation and cooperation between recruitments involved in the media grew dramatically. Special attention was given to the analysis of the state of the seas, which reflects the vast and multi-item interests of Iceland. There is clear evidence from international and environmental organizations, which now direct their work and influence more extensively in the affairs of the sea. At the site of the UN Environment Agency, Iceland stresses the struggle against plastic pollution, especially in the Arctic. During the following years, international discussions on the binding global agreement for plastic and plastic pollution are likely to begin immediately in the fall months of 2022. Iceland is a small, open economy. It is essentially an economy to rely heavily on international commerce. It has been one of our main interests in foreign affairs over the past few decades to ensure our access to international markets at the best possible cost. The whole world is one market area, so it is of prime importance to make sure that the production and the production of Icelandic intelligence has unstopped access to the largest market. Iceland's business policy therefore has the goal of serving the economic interests of society and ensuring the competitiveness of Icelandic companies on international markets. Free international trades and solid business systems are the basis for economic prosperity in Iceland. We place our trust in powerful and efficient international institutions, free trade agreements, and other business contracts, and above all, clear guidelines. In this regard, it should be noted that Iceland's most important business contract is the European Economic Convention. It provides access to a market of 450 million people where there are little obstacles. This share is also relevant to the EEA, as involvement in international commerce as a health card in the Icelandic business environment. The global epidemic of crowning virus brought many challenges to the international business environment. To a greater extent, the state was inclined to be a protectionist and a single - sided takeover. Such a trend would be very bad for Icelandic interests. It is important that Iceland continue to develop free trade policies that serve the economic interests of the community in wide context. Tolls for major exports will still be priorities, but further exports will be considered in other key areas of the European economy, such as in services, investments, high-tech and knowledge, including green solutions. Of the business agreements highest in 2021, Iceland's free trade deal with Britain is one that ensures the same benefit as after EU discharges. This is one of the most important export markets in Iceland, but the export to Britain averages about 10% of total goods and about 11% of total service exports to Iceland. To improve communication with Britain, we must continue to work. However, there is the EFTA Free Trade Convention in Indonesia that opened the access of Icelandic companies to a market of 260 million people. This is the 29th Free Trade Convention of the EFTA states and a fine example of the powerful business network that Iceland has developed with other EFTA countries in recent decades. Then it's time to mention the United States, which is Iceland's largest business country. It is a great deal to nurture and cultivate business relationships with the United States and aim to increase their freedoms in trade between countries. President. Clearly, the importance of international affairs will be great in the years to come. The work is hard, and they are important. As we can see from the report that has been distributed here, Iceland has a more powerful foreign service and will certainly try in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I will review it myself in a speech afterwards and in my opinion of the presentation given by the Ministry and Minister and what has been done - a lot of things fancy, but some things I miss. I'm here in an inquiry to be curious only about Bfenit because the head of a career minister was very much recommended in talking about the opportunities that were born in Bgret for us Icelanders. But when we saw the deal the other day, it seemed like little to go for these opportunities, and it is quite clear that our position with the British is not better, it is rather worse if something is, by Bgreit. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she knows what the British rejected. What were our demands in the negotiation, the vacation agreement, when it came to all of them? It was, for example, a... Bring forward our proposal and our wish that a free journey would prevail among the countries despite Bfenit? That may be the first question, regarding this free quest; what exactly rejected the British in our demands? What were our requirements, and what was our demand in these negotiations? Then I come to another question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u72	Madam President. It was negotiations that, of course, took a very long time; there was probably quite a lot on the table, and there was talk back and forth, and eventually some conclusion came into that. I don't have an overview of everything that was put on the table and especially about it. Of complete free movement between countries, I cannot claim now but possibly in the second answer, i.e. whether we required such a thing, but the United Kingdom had a very clear line on it, as I understand the case. There is really no land with such an arrangement. They made the decision to set up certain fences when it comes to the complete free movement of other citizens. There are other rules, such as those that apply more strongly to us. Although the vacation agreement was a complete key document and a key part of the relationship between us, it was part of their decision to leave the EU and the British did not specifically seek to enter the EFTA or the EEA Convention, which included not having as free access as possible to the country. That, too, applies to us. Despite the complete key points in our dealings - and we can imagine that if we did not have that contract and were therefore just clean and solid third state, we would be in much more trouble. But freedom of movement is not what it used to be. This was one reason why the British decided to leave the EU, so these issues are not entirely comparable to what was before. I may answer later if we have made such a demand, but the British simply did not have such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of honesty. I'd be surprised if we Icelanders didn't have at least one. test this fundamental principle in our dealings with the British. It would have surprised me very much if we hadn't tried this. But I will ask it within the foreign committee to get the list of our claims, our Icelanders, and what our terms were denied in this negotiation. There's got to be a way to get it together. My second question to the highest. Minister has something to do with the language, i.e. The safety and defence of our Icelanders. I'd like to know from the top. Minister if she thinks it is a reason to adopt the defense agreement with the United States. I'd hate to hear that this should only be considered in relation to the risk assessment because it makes me feel the highest. Ministers and governments are hiding behind the fact that left greens against NATO do not want to move at all or at all. My question is: Is a minister willing to ask for an opinion as to whether the defence agreement with NATO should be adopted on the basis of national security, especially in view that the contract does not address the threats we face today? The terrors were second in 1951. And also the other thing, a giant thing, is how we use America's defenses when we face a threat, because that is not clear in the contract. Thus, there are reasons why we should accept the protective contract with NATO. Will a minister take advantage of it within the National Security Council they also sit in, and within the government, to pick up the defence deal with the United States? I will review NATO, communication, and other matters in my speech afterward, but this is a simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u74	Madam President. As for our defense agreement with the United States, since 1951, with a law value that is rather unusual, it has on its basis been made into secondary contracts involving technicalities, exports, and other material aspects. In fact, the defense agreement is always in a certain process without formal acceptance and change. He's only under law, and then he's been made an appendix on a certain process of implementation, and he's under development. So I can't imagine that we're going to record the deal. I don't think there is really any need to take up and change the defence deal and put it back up as a bill and do as a law, but to some extent, it is, in fact, a living document because it is constantly developing. An appendix has been made to him, and there is much room within it. Therefore, we could greatly increase our cooperation on the basis of him and also in view, as well as in the course of time. A senator mentioned and has done this before, and I agree with these, to be said, a new and very growing threat that is Internet threats and multi-item and online security issues, since it could have some effect both in the Atlantic Community and in our relations with the United States. But in our efforts to improve our situation when it comes to the Internet, we may also be more inclined to look for international cooperation, even with other friends and alliances than with the United States, depending on what is suitable for each other. However, the defense agreement is on the move, and it is not necessary to record it in order to legalize it, but to work with what is already there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u75	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for an excellent review and a very good report and all the personnel of the Ministry for work. In many ways, this document is a good document, but it is unfortunate that the report will not be brought here until nearly 24 hours before such an important discussion, and it will clearly indicate that it had been developed quite sooner and little since the latest conversion from an illegal invasion of the U.S. government in Ukraine. Of course, this is a report for 2021 and the necessary circumstances, but it raises the thought that we too need to discuss the future. Of course, it is forgiven that most of the fact that a minister has been very subtle in connection with the invasion and has kept both the Council and the State Department more informed than the discussion might have been more difficult if we had received this fine report earlier. This is a large document, rather than a clear identification of the government's policy in foreign affairs. But I'm going to hang on to a few things that we're doing in the United States at least. is next with regard to the foreign affairs of the country. First, I'd like to discuss only the development team. Of course, you are afraid to read the figures shown in the report regarding the increase in the number of people living in a very poor world. It is important that the Council and the Commission increase the public awareness of development cooperation and Iceland's contribution, for much of our international commitments are attacking the world's poverty. The newer transformation shows that it is, of course, the best peace weapon. Clearly, a pandemic has seriously touched the most vulnerable groups. The United Nations has estimated that some 274 million people need humanitarian assistance and protection in 2022. Whether these figures address the consequences of the Ukraine invasion, which in many respects was unpredictable, is unclear. But while the value of a job involved in the staff of Iceland's foreign service is a lot of good work, we can do much more. I find Iceland and the government quite ambitious when it comes to Iceland's donations for developing cooperation, as it is true that although the centenarian may increase year after year, the share of GDP that we have paid is a very low percentage compared to the other North countries and in fact half the goal of the United Nations that we have expressed support. This number can be increased and is shocking, especially in view of the fact that it was done at the highest level. A minister in the past to develop cooperation is one of the most important priorities of the Icelandic foreign service, and we should be able to come to an agreement in this room to do much better, especially when there is a global emergency. Second, of course, you have to stop at people's escapes. The report, as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers, that 1% of mankind are on the run, some 84 million people, and already 2 million are being added in the last days because of the Ukraine conflict. The report discusses a little of the integration of humanitarian assistance and support to refugees from abroad but no objective on welcome and support to applicants on international protection is considered in this country. While this convention and assistance with refugees in Iceland may not be directly on the level of foreign minister, future reports may have some shaded columns that would lead to the aim of other schemes, perhaps it would help us to read them in between. It seems to me that with regard to those lawsuits, there is nothing particularly strange in view of the changes in foreigners that are once again seen here at the council. Third, which may be what people are at the top of right now, is a matter of security and protection and invasion in Ukraine, and although it is normally not much discussed in the secretary's report, it is possible to discuss the factors involved and prevention and security issues in the light of a completely altered cosmology, which the Minister did in fact come in handy. The United States supports the full involvement of Iceland in widespread pressure operations against the illegal invasion of the Russian government and rejoices that many people from Ukraine are being received in the future. But we also need to do better with neighboring Ukraine and with the local civilian help. It is clear that there will be economic pressure on Russia and will require economic sacrifices. It is important that we endure while they are thought necessary. I also agree with that with the highest. The minister of Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community is a key to national security policy and it is important to join the defense alliance in its civil activity. The position of the Atlantic states and similar countries has simply rarely been more important than it is now. Of course, it's a very important point that Iceland is preparing for the Community's challenge on Internet security in Tallinn, but it's clear that Iceland needs to make significant improvements in that area, and it's likely that we are not at least threatened by this type of warfare. As the report shows, national security policy for Iceland is the kind of guide they're working on in defense and security. The current national security policy was adopted in 2016, where the government was commissioned to follow a policy that ensured independence, state and privacy of Iceland's border, safety of its citizens, protection of government systems and infrastructure of human resources. Legally, the national security policy should be revised less frequently than every five years and the highest. Prime Minister, chairman of the National Security Council, is responsible for this. So such a review should have taken place last year. Of course, in view of today's situation and the changing world images of the coming decades, it is urgent that we take action as soon as possible. It is the national cornerstone of defense and security. Then it is necessary to discuss in the near future, at the International Assembly, our cooperation in the Atlantic Community, our cooperation with the United States, and also our participation in the European Union's security and protection activities that seem to be taking greater significance in the future. Then fourth, I'd like to come to the European Union, for even if Iceland is joining a group of democracies and states in international and international legislation, I feel that at this time it is a reason to deal with the possibility of membership, full involvement, Iceland in the European Union. The European Union is hardly mentioned in a secretary's report unless it comes from business interests, but it is so much more than just a business union, especially a peace alliance. We certainly take more of the EU's regulations and directives from the EU through the EU agreement than we have, of course, as mentioned here many times, far too little to tell what kind they are, and sometimes we have a problem adjusting them for Icelandic interests. In addition to being access to a larger and more stable currency with a lower interest level than we are used to, the European Union would get us in a better position. Perhaps it would be especially valuable now when the interest level in this area is rising and is much higher than in our neighboring countries. The cost of housing is increasing, not to mention building facilities that will require much more production in the next few years, as shown here on the President's conference board. In a stable currency, there is a great biodiversity campaign for the homes of the country, as well as it would greatly improve the business environment of an enterprise, especially the companies we have to promote, the companies of innovations that are selling much and that depend on continuous walking. In addition, since the invasion of Ukraine, it is clear that the European Union will take on a larger role in security and defenses and small countries such as Iceland is very much dependent on participating in such cooperation. I guess the new figures that appeared in Gallup's national pulse to support the European Union, where the majority of the nation seems to be in favor, state that countries such as Iceland want to share in international cooperation and understand its value, especially in the times we now live. Fifth, it is well discussed in the way the cooperation of Northern countries is conducted and in the north, and it is good to see that there is ambition. I'd like to discuss this cooperation between the northern countries. She's probably never been more important than now, and I'm happy with the emphasis on her. Of course, there is increased emphasis on the Western cooperation, and it is shown in good fresh reports on Iceland and the Faeroe Islands and Iceland and Greenland, on the other hand. These are our next neighbors, and they are close - knit, even though they could be harder, and it is important that we expand our cooperation as possible. In a fine report written by the Foreign Minister Skarphéðinsson, the Össur of▁Össur Skarphéðinnn, an outstanding example of how many further cooperation was made with our neighbors, and it is very important to follow it up in the years ahead. It is good to note in the report that this is to be done, especially in the light of the importance of northern lands. 6th only on import and export losses: Cantv. Minister says Iceland is a small country, and we have a great deal of open business. The State Minister's report discusses the importance of bringing down customs on the country's major export products, and I agree with it. But I'd be interested to hear from a minister if she doesn't feel like a worthy goal of dropping more tolls on the imported goods so far, at least The products that are not produced in Iceland and are not predictable to be produced here because it is an important consumer issue in the light of increasing food prices these days. Tolls in themselves always raise prices, they reduce innovation and melt the market law, and I can't see that there is something that is consistent with a maximum policy. Minister and her party. Of course, it is important to discuss future challenges, and Iceland needs to increase its emphasis on reducing climate change and promoting cooperation with other countries. Now that my time has begun to cool off, I may have to let something go. But watch that the Danish government has, for example. Create green foreign policy, and here for the council, it's a big deal. Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir for a green foreign policy I think we should take a look at. Together, we need to expand our donations for development. We need to welcome more refugees, and we need to open our eyes to the world and expand our cooperation with other countries. The main exports of our export products are made clear by the review of the report. There's the focus on democracy, human rights, sustainability and climate action, and I'm a man for this approach and we can achieve perfect harmony. That's why I'm asking a minister, because it's said that in our dealings with China, we're primarily looking at climate action and renewable energy, whether we should do it in a two-way contract with the United States, one of our largest and most important business states; we're looking at two-sided agreements on climate action and renewable energy. Finally, I encourage the highest. In view of the change in status and development, a minister for broad evaluations of Iceland's interests. It involves the highest review of national security policy, continuing to ensure our important interests in NATO but also a cold assessment of the advantages of a full European Union member who will play a larger role than ever in defense and security. I remind you that our interests there are not just business interests but are the EU's chief sexist democracy, freedom and human rights in the world, and this closely harmonizes with the emphasis the Minister has spoken and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and participation in these discussions. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that there is a general need and an increase of 3 billion in development cooperation during the year will be used to answer the humanitarian situation but also to build up in a new cooperation country to the future with Sierra Leone, which I count highly honorable. We are over the average OECD DiaC Member States, in proportion to the development of a multiracial industry. But I also realize that we are also considerably higher than the average member states when it comes to where we are in general, we are a rich society. Almost all growth in the field of foreign services over the past few years has been a result of development, so we are surely giving in and doing better, and all the funds are taking on a very important assignment. In terms of protection and the European Union at any given time. A senator entered - Iceland is in NATO and with a defense team with the United States, but we are also cooperating in the field of JEF and NORDEFCO and the North, so it is also important for all of us to prevent double work and make sure that we are not doing the same thing in many places. I agree with what. A senator in that the importance of international cooperation is very well understood by the Icelandic community and the Icelandic public. This is for the benefit of all our discussions, for our interests and the will of the common people, to be a nation among nations. It is also of great importance for all our work and for the use of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u77	Madam President. I'm not minimizing the increase in developing cooperation. I am also pleased with the many aspects of developing cooperation in Iceland, but I think we can be more ambitious because we accept and support the United Nations target by 0.7%. Sweden parks, e.g. 1%, I think. I would ask them back if we, in the long run, would be an option, set a time - appointed goal for this so that there would be harmony at the General Assembly, and there would not be a sharp distinction between government and government opposition at any given time. About our defense and security. Yeah, we're in NATO, and we have a two-sided deal with the United States and we have other forms of cooperation. But there's nothing to get in each other's way, and I know that other countries are just in exactly the same situation; Finns and Swedes that are not in NATO, but they still have a two-sided deal with the United States, and they're building it up, and they're also very consistent in response and in other matters with the NATO countries. So I think the reality is that the more international cooperation and commitment we have, the more likely we are to face these challenges. They may now be in the area of security and protection, but then, of course, they're on a longer-term climate. And then this eternity project, which is shrinking inexorably and reducing the world's resources, for in the end I think it's probably the most likely way to achieve peace. Then we can look to the Marshalls of America, which was very good, and exactly what it was like to promote democracy throughout Europe, and maybe we didn't do quite well when the Soviet Union collapsed. Of course, we should speak for that attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u78	Madam President. Just about a word or two. The senator of customs in general, he is quite right, as he guesss, that I am a public spokesman for no customs, such as my category, so that we have a role in food production here, food security, which is some kind of national security, as a national security issue as well as a postwaral and so forth, and to protect them from such production also against subsidated production everywhere, including and particularly within the European Union. Most countries place toll on a far greater number of products than Iceland, including Norway and Switzerland and other countries. It is quite natural for the European Union to look more closely for security and protection because of the new position in the continent, but this does not necessarily mean that the European Union's role is becoming more important. Our involvement in NATO, since we don't have the rules on funding for war because we don't have an army - now that is why the non-EU authorities actually bear the whole weight to the financial and cost of it, and especially the United States, Britain, Canada, and others. So it's just that it's normal for relationships and countries to sharpen focus, but that we're just making sure that there's no double-work and we're doing things so that we can get the best results, both in ensuring that security and defenses are okay, but also, like, okay. A senator says, to make peace. And that's exactly right; the more balanced the world between continents and countries and the better position, for example. Women are in and girls' rights for better education - there are ways to improve the world's true status.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u79	Madam President. Yeah, that's exactly where we agree, me and the highest. Ministers, to equality, human rights, and democracy, of course, are important. I think it'll just be a word against a word, but I'm sure the European Union will play a larger role in that context in the future. Europe as a whole, out of alliances and within, is a guardian of these values, and we must converge our cooperation with these countries. But we may only be taking up a discussion about the European Union very soon. About the customs. Yes, it is true that the state cooperates with some kind of customs and other things, but there must be some system of folly, so to speak. Of course, food security is much more complex than just defending products because there are machines and oils and all kinds of items that matter and that need to be viewed in a universal context. In fact, it is particularly strange to be somehow punishing products that are not produced here and that will not be produced here. It's a consumer thing too. It's not just a question of a producer. This also hurts because it reduces innovation. If we just take the cheeses, when it was only added to the import of cheese to the country, I mean, nothing has made Iceland better because of the sudden explosion of new and new species that were at least as competitive as they are from outside. So I think this could be an opportunity for the entire agricultural system, that they'll just deal with honest competition. But I thank you again for your excellent report and input.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u80	A respectable president. We are here on the report of the foreign minister on foreign and international matters, and there is plenty to be taken. I'd like to begin by saying that we've been dealing with the Covid-19 virus with its enormity, and in many ways, we've stuck together trying everything we could to stand together and work against that disaster. Sadly, though, as all of us know, a certain group of people have suffered severe damage from this virus and have set certain systems at one end and have caused massive disturbances both during flight and when people are able to travel freely. But when we finally saw the end of the problems caused by the Covid-19 virus, a new reality began following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Russia's warfare and violence in Ukraine is basically what stands out now, and we are to take on the grim picture of this war. Our duty is to send a clear message to Russian officials that we will never suffer violence and assault in hospitals and maternity homes. Sadly, we have seen shocking images of how the invasion affects citizens, and what may be the saddest, children, and those to whom the least should happen, elderly people, and disabled people, who in no way can protect themselves or get out of war areas, only with a great deal of help. I have often felt that it was one of the basics of trying to negotiate peace, but it seems, unfortunately, there is no way to trust anything that comes from Russia. We must, and I hope to the highest. A minister will agree with me in that, and we must do something, we must send a clear message. How can we, above all else, allow the U.S. ambassador of Russia to come into the press and try to defend this violence and allow those who support the horrors that are going to be here? I sincerely hope that the minister of foreign affairs is trying to get Western nations to send an even clearer message to the Russians that while these uncontrolled attacks on citizens and children, we will just lose all political ties with Russia. We have nothing to do with political ties to a nation that behaves in this unpleasant way toward people who can't defend themselves in any way. As a result, we also need to strengthen the Atlantic alliance, NATO. It's our duty to make sure the defenses of the country are in good hands. I was now one of the people who took a dump last night at the Copavoo, when the Portuguese fighter in NATO broke the airspace, but I know that many people, based on news received, were terrified because it was a huge noise, and it lasted a long time. I know some people got scared, but I didn't. I immediately realized what it was because I had heard those thunders before and knew that there was breaking the sound barrier to land. However, as far as I understand it, there will also be no air cover for a month in April, Portugal, and I understand that the Italians will not be here until the end of April or May, which is, of course, unacceptable. We know, and we've seen that for a long time, Russian planes are constantly trying and they're just breaking our airspace, and we need these machines to drive them away. The Russians may even know that there will be no air cover in April. I hope that it will be resolved already that it does not. As a result, there will be an increase in the extent of the activity in the area of safety at Keflavík and our security. We in Iceland are under protection of democratic values and respect of international agreements, and in particular, we must have human rights. Sadly, human rights violations are not only committed in war. Especially do we need to watch our children's rights. It must be brought together in the Council of Human Rights, with emphasis on protecting children and, in particular, children who are fleeing in a war state right now. We know that there has been a long bad situation for the Mediterranean Sea, where there is a huge number of refugees, and we should send a clear message that we will do everything within our power to assist in these matters. The Government Treaty says that a major Norwegian cooperation will continue to be a fundamental factor in international cooperation in Iceland, and that is good because the Northern countries are invaluable for Iceland, and then especially in these critical times, and we should make sure that our partnership with our friends countries in the North countries is maintained. I've been aware of how well we can trust those friendships through the Western and Northern Council, and that's where we're doing good things. It's just that, as it is, we have an amazingly good position to get to the top of our business with the rest of the North countries. As reported in the report, the Covid virus, and now the war, has increased dramatically, and much of the need, especially in poorer countries. In the pandemic, there has been an increase in the number of very few, and the war will also increase, so there is a need for failure. I was, for example. reading that we have now decided to stop most of all trades with Russia and also to stop Russian service to karape in Iceland. But I understand, to my surprise, if it was true what I read in a magazine this morning, that the Norwegians are going to be in full cooperation with the Russians in the fishing business. You put a little question mark on how to deal with it and whether it's above it, that there's something wrong, the Western community trying to send a clear message to the Russians that there's no contact with them while they're fighting this war with Ukraine. But there are other things going on abroad, and one of the things we see are the natural disasters that have affected. It's amazing how we see, in the same area, huge forest fires, with the massive destruction they cause in vast larger areas, e.g. In Australia, and now we witness an amazing disaster in which it is quite the opposite, it is all drowning in floods. This tells us that we need to examine these weather issues and hence the environment, and I sincerely hope that we will continue to clean up our affairs. But we must always think that any action in the environment - whether here or abroad - would not be the worst - affected, the worst, the poorest people. According to the report, the United Nations estimates that some 274 million people need humanitarian assistance and protection in 2022, with 39 million more than 2021. I bet those are numbers from before the war began. We need, for example. To fight to complete the UN's domestic legal contract on the issues of disabled people and to fight for the legalisation of similar agreements everywhere so that every disabled person has a tool to defend himself. We know that in war, floods, fires, disabled people, sick people, and elderly people, they are at the worst. The other thing I was going to talk about is the EU. I really hope that we will never enter EU Member States and hopefully go even less into that terrible relationship because it will not benefit us. I don't believe in that. We also have to, and I would like to ask the minister of state, to begin handling these wild orders that storm us out of the European Union, which, unfortunately, we seem to be just stamping on tomato, and without trying to escape. Many of these directives we're willing to agree to are just not of any concern to us here in this island in the North Atlantic. I'm asking if a minister has examined it and tried to keep a stop to the point that these directives will be passed and tried to take out what is none of our concern. We know what happened to the energy package directive and something else. We're also supposed to focus on sustainability and one of the things we could, for example, focus on. You learn to be self-sustained with vegetables. We should be able to do that. We're supposed to build a greenhouse. We have, for example. to learn from the Dutch and others who are prominent in this field. In many ways, we have a much better position to get things done so that we could be self - sustainable in vegetables with greenhouses. We've got clean water, we've got electricity, we've got hot water, so we should be in very good shape, and we can get these things right. We must also cooperate with the nations to protect the north and try to do all we can in our security and cooperate with other nations to ensure that peace remains. And hopefully, as I said, we send a clear message to the Russians that we will never suffer this war, and while they are in this war, we have nothing in themselves to do with them in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before this talk and would like to mention just a few of the points he came in on. First with the Russian political relationship and the ambassador's being here, there's probably the thing that I get most of the questions about, where people ask: How can it be that he is somehow in our authority and during this? I understand that very well, and especially when the ambassador shows up in the media with the language that has been there. However, political and diplomatic routes are not only important in times of peace; they are also important in times of war. We must work at it and hope to deny that we both want to prevent the diplomatic means, but when it clearly has failed, as in this case, and the Russian government has chosen to go to war, we must also keep on the diplomatic means of stopping the conflict or affecting communication and maintaining communication, because we cannot continue in the reality we are now. We cannot give up on the results of diplomatic behavior, and it affects our people, our ability to be Russia on our side, both to our citizens living there, and to ensure that there is a relationship between them. I had a very nice meeting last night, where Physics, the Microcrete Alliance, Tabu, and Aggressive came in. Now I have so few seconds left for my next talk, but because I know why. A member of that group struggles with both shocking listening but also very important and good for me to hear it directly. I was presented with a challenge to give special attention to this group, not just when it comes to welcoming the potential groups, but especially to send financial assistance into Ukraine, where a large percentage of these people simply cannot leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u82	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this. I couldn't agree with that. Of course it's nothing simple, I realize it must always be an emergency if we're going to break off a political relationship with Russia. And yet somehow you're sitting in your room that you can't help but deny it - I've seen two media interviewing the ambassador and he comes forward denying the facts, and you're just thinking, "Hey, wait, how can you have this guy? I hope so much and fervently that during and until then - and if he has to stay here, it will hopefully be that the media won't make his point, that would be very good. But I am very pleased to hear that. Ministers have contacted the Quantum Community and Developmental aid because we know that it is one thing to be at war and to be completely free, but if you are in a situation where you are not able to provide you, and even you are in a position where you need help but there is no help - we are witnessing that the cities have been electricity, water, and food free for a few days. Of course, for just normal people to be in that situation, it is bad and scary, but for those who are disabled or sick or who are bedridden, these must be one of the scariest conditions we can imagine. Hence, relief groups need to be taught that somehow they need to try to reach these people so that they can help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u83	Madam President. I think a word of it is. The senator's experience with the ambassador's being here and when he shows up for interviews with the language he's been doing reflects the experiences of very many people here. It is a pleasure to see that even though that presentation is still appearing, no one really believes it. It is very good to see each side over 99% of those who take a stand in this war. It is a pleasure to see where it is. It doesn't have the ambassador's lawsuit in this country. Regarding the second point regarding the status of disabled people in Ukraine, this is the case. The senator is very much like my reaction at the meeting yesterday. It's hard enough, it's awful enough to be in your country, in your home, or into an institution where you're staying but can get yourself out or be in that situation. This group is the most sensitive, the most sensitive, and, in some cases, can do nothing, and even is so that the people around them have fled or had to go or make decisions about it. It is more tragic to think of how helpless they are. The U.S. Department's website lists an organization that can be directly supported. They're collecting money to send directly to the place because there's an organization that will somehow be able to help the people who are there. If the Russians are not going to provide the means to get someone out of cities where there has been no water and no electricity for a long time, which is below any stretch to be done, then it would be a good way for people thinking of this group to deposit money there. Following yesterday's meeting, the State Department of State will use a section of that funding for the government, with taxpayers' funds, and will deposit funds there to help at the local level.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u84	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answer. I agree with this, and I really hope that people will go on this website to support this organization. That would be a very useful donation because I know that these companies will direct money directly to those who really need it. Yet, you are afraid that in many cases it is too late for the news that you are receiving, these disturbing reports, about children and their condition in this war. I don't think that's going to show up bad stories, but hopefully it'll be possible to save as many people as possible. At the same time, I admire the Ukrainian people, who are also disabled people from Ukraine at the Chinese Olympic Games to win one another's prizes. I just admire these people being able to stay focused, but they've probably given all their strength to fight for this, thinking that by working 100% and winning a prize there they've probably sent a clear message that the Ukrainian people will never give up. If these individuals do not give up, it is absolutely clear that the Ukrainian people will never give up. That's why I say all we can do and should do is send the Ukrainian people fighting a complaint and send a clear message that we are on their side, and we will do everything in our power to help. I have no doubt that the government and the secretary of state will do what she can to help those who need help and make it absolutely clear and pressure the Russians to try to be a little humane and to put their arms around people and help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and firmed his stand with the Atlantic Alliance. I hope that's also true of the Gang of the People. It's good to hear it from members of Congress. It's important. I took it very slowly during a radio interview this week to see how the U.S. ambassador has appeared, and it's not a good example, I put it that way, and that's a very conservative expression. But I think European ambassadors only get their own line and should communicate it, sometimes in a slightly different way. It's terrible to watch what happened at Mariupol. I agree that what is going on there can be condemned. Then I just wanted to enter this incident in the Kopavog yesterday. I was in the West Side of Reykjavík myself, and there was clearly no great noise there compared to what was in Kópavogi and Parktown, where the machines flew over. To tell you the truth, I thought I was shoveling my street. In fact, I wondered because it hasn't happened for three weeks, it has been cursed there, but it's only beginning to improve after it started to warm up. But that was the experience of the West Side. I can assure you what. A senator that was not bombing the sound barriers above Kópavogi and Garville during the flight to Cheflavík yesterday. I have a feeling that men have only gone a little too low, but the sound barrier was not blown up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I just have to say, it's our policy that we support NATO. I support my whole mind, and I believe that what's happening right now in the world is showing us black in white that being neutral is no longer a choice. We can see this both during our discussion in Finland and Sweden, and we can also see that our main stand of neutrality broke down and that was in Switzerland. People are beginning to realize that claiming to be passive or neutral doesn't work out. Then we're just saying that we're going to accept the state of the world. It will never be acceptable. Never will we be able to accept what is going on in Ukraine. But I'll admit that the first time I heard the jets over Kopavogi yesterday, I thought, "Wait, they're scraping. ' And I said, No, they are not scraping; there is no snow. They've been scraped in there a long time ago. Then I realized what it was. That was quite a draught, and it lasted a considerable amount of time. I don't know if it was two or three machines, but it reminded me, and somehow I turned on the war. It wasn't anything to be afraid of, but as I say, I can understand that some people were scared because it's something we're not used to. But I also thought about how they feel in Ukraine when Russian jets cross there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u87	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the report and any members of the council who have spoken. The report presented here, and indeed quite late, is something that I encourage people in general to look through that there are many very interesting things, and most important, in view of the position we are in now that our eyes are slightly directed to Ukraine. It is also even more important to learn more about what it is doing, what it is doing, the government and country itself. The report says that because of the epidemic, economic activity has been disturbed in all the world and especially in poorer lands. How sad it is, though it is a well - known fact that in such a situation, there is a growing number of very poor people! It is said that this group has made over 100 million. We know and have heard a great deal about the disorder of school children and other things. This is exactly what has been called vaccinations due to serious infectious diseases and a relapse in the fields of equality and human rights. These are also the known consequences of war. This is not only a known condition when epidemics occur, as we have been going through. Of course, this is because of all the conditions and changes in climates and other things that more and more people need relief. The United Nations has said that a third hundred million people need humanitarian help and protection. There is a marked increase between years and years, as we have discussed, it is likely to improve in that number in the light of world conditions today. Although we speak of 1% of mankind, we are talking about over 80 million people who are fleeing the world. Much of this may not come back, and most of these people are in the developing nations. Some 800 million people live in malnutrition and famine, and they continue to live in more lands. Here are some countries; South Sudan, Yemen, and the northern part of Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Nigeria. You should not forget, the situation in Afghanistan is intense and very short since we were talking about it, even though the rest is closer to us. I think it's very important that we review that this is, unfortunately, a very difficult situation in many places. Of course, what we have spoken about in foreign affairs is human rights, that we support and try to promote them wherever we come. That is our primary obligation. Just so I'm going through the report a little bit, I'm going to do some evolutionary cooperation. We increased the contributions by more than 80% last year and are certainly at 0.35 percent and our goal is to be bigger and, at least, bigger forever. to achieve a minimum of 0.7% suggested. I think we all agree on that, and we're on our way together. I just want to talk about developing cooperation. I have had the privilege, perhaps not a good word in myself, but I have had the privilege of observing my daughter, who has worked now for ten years more and less in such jobs in foreign lands, from Cameroon and Mozambique to Venezuela. She has been in Kenya, India, in Tanzania, and is now in the Congo. All this time it's been conveying it, especially because once you're in this position, it's good to be able to get information directly from the field, which actually puts you into the position and gives you the truth of what's a little distance. You get insensitive when years after decades appear on TV, and that's what's so dangerous, that it's gonna get us removed and slide a little away. Therefore, I think that we need to review it in this discussion and remember everything else that is going on despite Ukraine's taking up a small space in our hearts right now. Because this was also the case with the vulnerable groups that are fleeing now, not only in Ukraine but also elsewhere, I was at a meeting last week with UNICEF, the Red Cross, and social advisers from Tabu who were just going over the issues that a minister used to address and bring you up to think about. It put much emphasis on sending in funds through this organization. UNICEF spoke of getting them to the children and women to escape, and Tabú spoke of supporting the local people because there was an amazing number of people who could not get out of Ukraine, and there were drugs, etc., that this organization was trying to help in any way. Those who have limited resources can contribute to this organization, which will certainly become a source of good work. As the minister mentioned, this organization can be found on the Home Office and how to assist them. I think it's very important. I just wanted to make this right because I think it's important. I think development cooperation is very important. She may not have shown the fine side of the pandemic. Then, in my opinion, the Western nations were not well enough, and unfortunately, vaccines were received too late, especially in the African countries. We know that it is not a pre-vaccination tradition, as we know it is in many Western countries, and it takes longer to get the vaccine to people. It was sad to see that a large quantity of vaccine was thrown away. This is something that I think we need to learn from when the next epidemic arrives, because, of course, it's not a 'olen', it's just when we've proved it. I just want to talk about it when it comes to whether the voice of Iceland was important in international cooperation. I am convinced of that, and I felt that it was evident when we sat down at the Human Rights Council. Although that was not a long time, he was certainly important. After the voice that came from here was taken, we have decided to volunteer our efforts again in the Council of Human Rights in the year 2025-027, which I believe is a very good decision. The same can be said of NATO. It is not without reason that when our prime minister arrives, he uses language that has never been used. It's important to have many voices in such cooperation. That's what I thought was the most important thing to discuss. I think we need to take advantage of all the opportunities we have in our worldwide work wherever they are. This also discusses the Arctic, and thankfully, the decision has been made to keep out of all military debates that I think is extremely important. There are many possibilities, and the course that we have, as a minister, has begun planning to implement, has given us opportunity to do so. to promote business ventures, especially with Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. We also adopted a new policy that matters, and there are many suggestions. As in general, the government has talked a lot about climate, resource and environment everywhere, where we have been introducing our emphasis and our missions as well. That's what I know of only a job through EFTA, and I agree with the highest. Ministers when she discussed these matters. I think it's very important that we introduce this because we have generations who have never grown up with anything but to have access to what EFTA gives us. I don't think that a lot of people could see the consequences of cutting it off. We have discussed this at the scene of the EFTA, and we have reason to present the matter to the public, and I think we can do it in many ways, and I think it is very important to do so. EFTA, in turn, is moving into its text structure, and when new contracts are being updated and adjusted, where environmental protection, work rights, gender equality, etc. Of course, we live there are countries in which we have a completely different farm and we've been trying to deal with it, and we may not have reached all our goals against them, but certainly part of them. I wanted to talk about GRO, i.e. where school witnessing is being done on a foreign - language basis. I think it's really important, and I've thought that these four of our schools, the Equal School, the Earth's School, the National Health School, and the Oceanside School, all of them proved their existence. This may be one of the things you feel are going a little low in the discussion, because it is a very big job. GRRO is an independent centre that works under the signs of UNESCO, the UNESCO Education, the National Institute for Science and Culture for the United Nations, and has been a special unit in the Ministry of State. However, these are schools that have been active for decades and have been part of our global development team. The role is to improve the ability of strains and individuals in developing countries in areas where Iceland has expertise. In this regard, I would like to remind you that I have a case in mind that the Council of the United States commits a minister of foreign affairs in cooperation with the Minister of Re-Electment and Justice to appoint a team to investigate the basis for the establishment of an international rescue school in Iceland, its pros and cons. We Icelanders and I have an enormous knowledge of rescues, both available by government and by partners. Like us, there may be few who live under conditions and natural conditions. Rescuers have had a lot of experience with rescues from sea danger, incorruption, avalanches, earthquakes, natural rocks, difficult territories, etc. Then we have sent international rescue teams to disaster areas in foreign countries where we have used this expertise, including the U.S. We're in the ruins of abduction. There was the International Rescuer Society of the Landsaving Society, which served as rescue workers in Haiti. It's been 10 years. It called attention to the international community, and I believe our colleague, anyway. paritaprevir Because we first became part of the area, Gísli Ólafsson was on the head of a regiment, and we took it in. I think we should seriously consider whether this is not a reason to expand it by having such schools for the very use of our expertise in other countries that we can transfer to such unstable movement of earth and nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u88	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, which covers the stage, but several points I would like to mention in that context. I'm afraid you're absolutely right. The result of Covid is tremendous, and the epidemic has led to significant relapses, regardless of famine, extreme poverty, violence against women, effects on vaccination against other diseases, etc. I have to say the same thing. A senator that although the COVAAX co-work was of great importance and certainly wastes our part there and there, as it is taken, as well as the organisations in which they knew very well how to appreciate the stepped - down and done by the wealthy small countries, the intercontroversity between the continents has been tragic when it came to the delivery of vaccines by the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the state of Afghanistan, I appreciate it. A senator for bringing this up here. Of course, it is very difficult to say: There is no comparison between Ukraine, Afghanistan, or other areas, but it is important to remember not to forget or, in some way, to allow it to bite in areas that are also frightening. Indeed, Afghanistan is one of the areas in which the situation in humanitarian affairs has never been as bad as it is today, in the United Nations. The fact that 50% of Afghanistan's population needs international humanitarian assistance is absolutely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is also important for us to keep very disappearing and to look beyond the platform even if we are then giving in and taking to heart what needs to be done about Ukraine. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u89	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It is sadly, as the minister's initial statement puts it, and what the former minister spoke about a year ago when we thought we were getting out of the situation, that today we should be experiencing another terrible situation on top of what Covid has brought. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we put our arms around us, both at home and in many other places, the consequences of all this claustrophobic suppression of the epidemic as far as possible. A minister mentioned, this increase in violence, particularly against women and children who are vulnerable, etc. We've been trying to put our arms around this and, of course, I think we will continue to do so, for we certainly are only a small part aware of the consequences that are there and will be seen. Actually, I didn't mention it as the highest. A minister reminded me that CVAX matters, of course, as it did. Our contribution was large in comparison to a small country, even though we are well - founded. The lesson, as I said earlier, that we need to draw from this is primarily that we need to consider that we are in a similar area and agree with the nations that need more time than we do to carry out or offer such help to people. Yeah, there's a terrible situation in Afghanistan, and that's why I think it's so important to talk about the fact that democracy is trampled on, women and children have never had anything worse than they had in a rather conservative state. Still, women had the opportunity to learn and work and do things that have just been banned, and there are some situations that we cannot enter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u90	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the minister of foreign affairs for a clear report and at the same time allow me to commend the Minister for missteps in recent progress. Of course, foreign affairs are a huge case, but somehow this group, my knowledge, has been too little to discuss in a country, and especially here at a council. I think there's something a Senate can take over, and I sure am. Living in a free and ideal land does not necessarily mean maintaining a more powerful foreign service or being so lucky. When I entered the council and became a member of the State Department of State and began to study foreign service, I was amazed at how far it is, how much strong people we have, how wide it is, and how many parts of the world we are coming down. We have spokesmen all over the world. We have embassy offices, constant committees, and then we have representatives around the world, and all these people speak Iceland's language, represent the values we represent, and actively share in promoting foreign service from year to year. Mr. President. As we review this foreign report, the situation in Ukraine will be the main concern. The situation is unprecedented, and the refugee problem is immense. The Icelandic government has activated 44. legislation on foreigners and the European Union has developed an emergency strategy. They think the number of people looking here can be the second thousand. Maybe it's guesswork, but I wouldn't be surprised by the situation. I am confident that we Icelanders will take our responsibility and will take refuge over these people who are fleeing war. We've got to get everything started right away. The government is indeed responding, and a response team has been appointed, and there have been jobs. A respectable president. I'd like to enter a few points that focus on the factors that concern me at this point, and there's maybe the national security policy number one, the national security policy adopted in 2016 and now the need to revise. In many ways, I consider it to be good. It involves the main factors we weigh most in our defenses, in order to make our involvement in the Atlantic Community and the US Convention on Defense, which I think is from 1951, but in the circumstances it is very important to revise national security policy. That is a requirement in the Constitution, and I'm sure that this work is probably started to some extent. It needs to be in earnest with the council and anyone who has to come, and I assume that this work is about to begin. In national security, things changed 2014, although the economic pressure that was then put into Iceland was the most response to the economic pressure the Icelanders were taking because of the Crimea invasion. However, that invasion of Ukraine was still a big change in safety issues in the continent. Those who work in these fields and identify them experienced much more movement, much more activity, a much greater demonstration of human function, and our reactions have taken into account. But the discussion about this may not have been too great. Therefore, I rejoice to see in the report that the increase in weight is put together on national security and protection issues, both at the scene of the Atlantic Community and also in regional cooperation, including ... withBritish and Sweden. It is important that Iceland actively participates in the panthers of the Atlantic Community and, in particular, is taken to the Internet security site in Tallinn and a panther site for multi-country threats located in Helsinki. I think that's where we Icelanders can probably have a lot to offer. We have powerful people in knowledge and science, and perhaps we should try to make a special stand for security and protection in these areas, even though we cling to being an armyless nation. A respectable president. In the fall of the year, Iceland is taking the lead in the Council of Europe. This involves a huge responsibility, a great deal of the challenges facing Europe's human rights and political conditions. Human rights, democracy, environment, gender equality are what will be emphasized in our prehumanity. This shows that Iceland is a nation among nations and, of course, will fulfill this role. I think we have a lot to say about all these factors, but I'm sure we'll also have to stand up and stand up to those who don't see human rights and democracy as we do and our friends. A respectable president. We all know that the situation is changed, and I am deeply concerned about the economic impact we already see of the Ukraine war and how it will take on the continent and the world. Then, of course, my greatest concern is that rising prices in international markets will be worst for the worst. We need to consider that in this country, we need to consider having a good view of how things are changing economicly. We need to prepare for the price of raw products to produce, wheat, and even metals, to go up into a global market that will have an impact within the country. At this time, the food prices will rise, and it will have a big impact on this country. I understand that 8% of all manure produced in the world is produced in Russia. Clearly, oil prices have risen dramatically, and now oil - producing kingdoms are trying to cope with it in some way. Of course, it shows the importance of continuing to work towards sustainability, but it also shows where we can help other countries to use renewable energy and gradually try to reduce the costs of fossil fuels on us. I am proud to see, Madam President, that me and the Icelanders are actively involved in resisting the war that is now fought in Ukraine. But what may have surprised me most is that independent parties, such as to form international companies, are about to step forward and stop their operation in Russia for protest purposes, even companies on which these economic pressures have been established, although they are large, are really not involved. They are just people who rely on the free market, rely on democracy, rely on human rights, rely on the ability to carry their products, for the fact that Ukraine's free and ideal people are not being flooded. I find it historic and positive to be part of a group of Western nations where individuals and businesses have been doing their job without being forced or specifically asked to do so. These include Apple, Samsung, IKEA, and the Central Transporter in Denmark, which I believe is one of the largest moving companies in the world. Mærsk said: "We are ready to move medicine and necessities, but that is not what we are ready to move to Russia. These are big decisions, and hopefully they will cause Russia's authorities to think twice. Unfortunately, there seems to be little evidence to suggest that this thought is at least started with some serious shit. Of course, we keep hoping that it will be possible to lead people to the table of agreement. As we look at the defenses here in the country, we've had the air spacekeepers of friends here whom the Icelanders are no doubt well acquainted with. Portugal is taking care of that air space guard today, and I understand their time has reached the end of the month. I wondered if the situation in Europe's security calls for an increased presence in Keflavík and wants to direct my question to the highest level. Secretary of State on the matter in particular, if there's such a thing. We have heard that NATO's defenses are focused mainly on countries close to the war zone, but we also know that the country's scope is wary. We also know that we want to secure our defenses and, along with our friends and other nations in NATO, show that we have an active defense here. So I'm going to point to the Minister, if she has the means to bring it in a little bit. There's a lot to take from this report. One of the things I would like to get a detailed consideration of is this great scientific organization that we have with other nations on a very broad scale. We have a very high level of scientific activity worldwide, and there we have much to offer, I think, in many ways. We succeeded in dealing with Covid in the face of many other nations. There we have tremendously powerful scientific people who assisted the country and the nation of that nation. Now we need to consider how we come to promote cooperation between countries in order to be ready if and when another pandemic strikes. It is not surprising that we have much to offer in this regard. Finally, Mr. President, I am especially glad that we are taking foreign affairs to heart, and the jury is having more and better discussions in the community as well. This is an extremely important group of paintings, affecting all aspects of our daily lives in Iceland, and it is awe - inspiring that you see how well we have been successful since our independence from a stronger foreign service, actively interacting with our friends and alliances, both in the area of security, and especially in business. It will be interesting to see if we cannot promote foreign affairs and give foreign affairs the place that the group deserves at a council and in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this speech and participating in a discussion of the report. Hv. A senator here mentioned who is taking sides with Ukraine and with friends and partners and that big corporations are about to step up and do the same. I agree with what. A senator's opinion that it is good to see that a company takes a position in a battle, in fact, simply for international law to be respected and guidelines in general respected, because everything we can do to protect that system is in the final analysis of cheap as compared to watching such a system collapse or read very badly. But I also think that another source of this is that community responsibility is simply becoming a better, but I can't, it's important in business, it's more and more important in business to show community responsibility in action and I think it's also part of the decision-making of these companies, and it's good. With regard to the presence of either American or Atlantic alliances in Cheflavík in the area of security, we've had this air space guard three or four times a year for years. An assessment of this may lead to further presence, but such a decision has not been made. I agree with what. A senator in his discussion with great weight on the Internet security issue, which is a huge issue because the much technical progress we have made has simply led to the expansion of the state, defense, and security debate. We certainly have work to do here at home, but I agree. A senator that we also have something to contribute to our participation among friends and alliances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u92	Madam President. I'd like to thank the minister for the counter-reguage. That's exactly what it is with the community responsibility. There's something that we Icelanders have certainly been trying to introduce into a corporate drive in this country, and we may be in a position where we are, in effect, just a demand of business people to show community responsibility for the company. Because one of our priorities in the Presidency of the European Council is equality and the position of the sex, we have much to offer in that regard, and it is no less a matter of community responsibility. As for being at the Cheflavour Airport, I thank you for the answer, and I'm confident that all of these factors from all possible angles are being examined at this point. Whether there will be a permanent operation or if there will be some part of the air cover of friends who will be here. But it wouldn't surprise me if I did, it wouldn't surprise me at all. Of course, we have, and we have our defense to 2006 for a reason. After that, the Icelandic State has accepted greater responsibility for its safety, and it may also be good for us to do better there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u93	A respectable president. It is important to express appreciation right away for the foreign service that has been successful in my opinion, for all the staff of the service and for our contacts around the world, in particular for different needs, for both our citizens in many areas and for the service we have to maintain toward them but also for companies, as well as for following our policies, and that is what I would like to contribute to. It's a fine paper, it's available, and I'd like to commend a minister not just for the report but for the way a minister has acted very strongly during the last days. It is not necessarily so clearly spoken in behalf of solidarity, in the interests of peace, and in the interests of responsible policy by joining other nations that are fighting for their existence, as Ukraine is doing. But I have to say, after covering this report last night, that this is a good summary of what has been done. It's available to us senators, and I also encourage all the Americans to look up in this, it's a lot of interesting things to do, but I still don't recognize the foundations of our foreign policy and the samples and the goals and what we're working for. Maybe it's not fair, and I'm calling it here that more and less of this report has probably been printed, even though it is printed in March, taking into account the war in Ukraine. It is true that the talk presented earlier. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik's Friðriksson, John Fridrik, said that we have talked too little about foreign affairs. We've talked too little about policy, our cold interest values, whether Iceland's place is better off inside or outside the European Union. There's only one sentence in the Constitution. That's just the way it's done, no food. There is no question asked for a foreign legal committee, no conversation with the nation about the basis for this assessment, and this is the only hard political course that you can find in the government covenant. We have been maintaining a great deal of communication on the importance of the European Union, but also on defense and security issues. I remember that the other day when I was trying to squeeze out the answers to make the highest. While Mila and the Salan in Milu was being discussed, I came to the empty cabin. Of course, this is also the result of some of the fact that we, Western nations and especially Europe, have been apathetic over the past 30 years because we have been in a period of peace since the fall of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989. Happily, our cooperation across Europe has deepened and increased, leading to our greatest period of peace. The values that we Icelanders and I have come to care for are democracy, freedom, and human rights. The report is a fine summary, but it is not much more. No ambition, no boldness. There's no place to say: The nation will be subject to a possible position on the European Union. There's no mention of that. There is no reference to this information to the nation. Or to film when I'm looking at my friend and my partner, well. paritaprevir Njáll Trausti, speaking of the importance of NATO, has not necessarily been very cool or smart to talk about defense and security, but it's about time. But we have not received this initiative from the government. I'd like to point out that it was even enlightened. At a meeting of the State Security Committee, the National Security Organization, which is the refuge that the prime minister has because it must not be mentioned, it should not be mentioned, but, rather, the national security policy - good and well, if we are going to use it, it would have been revised in the past year by the current policies that are in force and that are in effect 2016, but we have not even begun to see the front of a national security policy. I'd like to draw out a few things. Of course, it is important to strengthen the political and economic situation of Iceland in Europe. We need to increase our influence by sitting at the European level and strengthening our participation in the Atlantic Alliance, NATO. It is likely that the protection and safety issues will be more meaningful in the European Cooperative Work Programme, including ... becauseof the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but also because of the United States' emphasis on other areas such as Asia, and they are focusing more on China's increasing activities to form in the South China Sea. On the contrary, the Dans have set up a policy change in Danish security, with large increases in defense expenditures and, on the other hand, by falling from their warning against the EU's defenses, the Danish people agree to this in national terms that will be now at the beginning of the summer, but all classes have agreed to set it this way. Germany, as we know, has also changed its focus and contribution to defense in the continent. Finns and Swedes are also thinking about movement, and there sisters have left green cow valves because they have security at stake. This is not to be discussed, so it should not even be determined whether our participation in NATO should be strengthened. Not even to consider whether it's right to increase the persistent survival of a defense force in Iceland, it's just thrown off the board because it's not suitable for the leadership of the government and his grasslands, and perhaps because that group is afraid more involved in the Socialist Party, that it leaks over there. This means that the government will be driven aimlessly into security and protection in this case if not to discuss NATO, if not to discuss our increased participation in that field, or whether or not to discuss whether we should establish an army in our cooperation with our alliances in some way. That's a point we'll even remember. We will consider a future discussion of our suggestion on these matters. We believe that by means of a final step from involvement in the EU's internal market, there is also an increased bioavailability for European products, especially marine products, and provide more stability and competitiveness for households and companies. This report has no assessment of this. We feel that there is an increase in business freedom and access to markets for the economic security of Iceland as well as the general security of the country. The world movie is different now. There's tension between China and the United States, and there's no chance it'll decrease in the next few years. Business spending is more likely to become more common and applied to a greater extent than before. It is then important to be in a safe haven among countries that ensure Iceland's access to large markets. By doing so, we also provide greater and more secure freedom of business, which is especially important in today's changing and uncertain environment. We face new challenges, other types of power ratios in the world, and the growing need for democracies for cooperation, not only about military protection but also about baselines, culture, business, and economics. So our response to the war in Ukraine is not to be limited to today. We need to look ahead. We need to reevaluate Iceland's status in the new light, ensuring the future interests of the country in all areas. Member States to the European Union's internal market for the EU Convention and its involvement in the Atlantic Community have been the two main members of Icelandic foreign policy. It is only natural for new circumstances to come by strengthening the two cores of foreign policy. After the second world war, democracies realized that only military defenses would rule out peace and security. To achieve that goal for peace and security in Europe, the increase in business freedom, prosperity, and the same guidelines for all would have the same significance. Pálsson, former chairman of the Independence Party, correctly points out in an article in the News Today that the Atlantic Alliance, NATO, is not directly mentioned in the government covenant. The premeditation of the Constitution does not mention safety, foreign and national defence. Also, it is not in the part of the covenant that describes the course of government. The government's ambitions and taking them seriously are not great and are actually becoming dangerous if they are not going to keep their eyes on the ball. I want to focus on the European community, this is the greatest and most successful peace project in history, a dignified president. There is practical evidence to support full EU involvement that peace has lasted so long in the continent. It would be more stable, and it also allowed us to access a larger market, whether it is in business or money. We were given increased support to improve quality of life and standard of living and finally to have something to say. With increasing stability, families and companies who constantly have to worry about gang swings and inflation would be relieved. Of course, we would not be free of all problems, but the problems would be different, and they would be much more manageable than now, no matter what. That is why, in my opinion, it is irresponsible to stick your head in the sand and rule out the advantages that could add Icelandic society, especially now that we see an increase in the support of the public, when about half of the population are fully involved in the European Union and people just want to make this proposal to the government. What about giving this to the people? Let her say something about her future. Of course, this calls for greater consultation with the nation and for allowing them to have something to say, trusting it to tell you what the next steps will be. But the evidence is not just practical, dignified president, as extensive as the practical evidence is, however. It's also about the importance of Iceland becoming part of a larger community that stands out for peace and human rights, a society in which liberality is held, and democracy is allowed to enjoy itself, which is not likely in the world as we are living so well today. We Europeans may not have talked about it enough and still feel that many people are enough, we have rather focused on economics and objective interests, incredibly important and immensely important to see the context of parts as well. We've been talking housing. It is not normal to have much higher interest here than in any other country. But it is so important to discuss this beautiful belief that is behind the European Union itself. The European Union simply has an alliance that is most aggressive for human rights, peace, and liberal democracy in the world, and it is not by itself. So much is the need for a relationship between environmental and climates. It's running a little bit of the government. It hangs on with the targets set by the EU and, in fact, the European Union has taken the lead in taking over us Icelanders in climate and environment. Whatever the case, the European Union leads the train toward a better world. If we find it difficult to accept it, we can look to all the benefits that have come here from Europe and have been late to become a reality, except through our cooperation in the European field. That's why we should take the next step and go all the way. We are to take full part in this European journey, helping out more in the struggle for human rights and helping more towards improving the standard of living for all who live in the continent. If people do not trust in it, simply allow the nation to take this step and appreciate it for themselves. With full involvement, Iceland can become a nation of nations, ensure self - interest, and at the same time use its voice to help other nations. With more active involvement in the European Union, we can take a stronger stand for peace and liberalness and at the same time create a better standard of living. We must not forget that the European Union is at the foundation of a peaceful relationship. It was designed to prevent more world wars and the calamities that Europeans experienced all too often over the decades and centuries before. The European Union is proved by the cooperation of business unions, business freedom, open market, and free movement of people as a defensive community. There are two sides of the same coin. The European Union binds economic and political incentives with the aim of ensuring and maintaining peace in Europe, its highest objective. Why, then, rule out further participation in this area when the benefits are so obvious? Shall we at least? not to put in proper interests when it comes to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, but he would like to make it a special point. A senator criticizes that the report is just an analysis of what has been done, that is the very purpose of the report. The report explains what has been done last year, including the U.S.A. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 is not recommended. We have national security policy, Arctic policy, development policy, foreign trade policy and the review of the report are factors based on those policies. This report is not a comprehensive summary of foreign policy but an overview of what has been done, including Based on their policy. Hv. A senator makes quite a point of not speaking about NATO, but I do not agree entirely with it. I'm always talking about the Atlantic Alliance myself, and I've noticed that there are more and all the government groups. I have thought that the prime minister would do quite well as the prime minister of the country to work for national security policy and be a leader of a state that is part of the Atlantic Alliance, despite its policies. I disagree that we are aimless in security and defense because our national security policy is very clear. But when it comes to discussing the European Union and the role of the European Union in safety and protection and peace, etc. We have the EEA deal, and we're in the Atlantic Union. This has been quite well for us, and I think that part of the reason why the European Union has not been too much of a discussion and support in the European Union. It is a relatively short time since it was chosen, and it was not chosen to be a part of the European Union. [[The president calls.]] I think it's okay to sort out a lot of talk about possible involvement in the European Union. It is not on the agenda of this government, but it is indeed possible to develop the cooperation and be active participants without having a full share in the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u95	A respectable president. I'm getting close to things like this from a completely different angle than the highest. Minister, because something is not planned by polls or any of these things, it should not be discussed. On the contrary, it has been very persistent in the European Union, its involvement in the European Union, the money, the euro and now the security and the defence, although it is not always on the nation's agenda. The role of the classes is to guide the nation and try to convince them why certain things are better, and why the national security is better guaranteed to form part of the European Union, and I reviewed them earlier. The more I listen to talks today from the highest. The rulers of the government, the more I begin to question the fact that we are taking care of most interests or that we are considering the interests we need to take care of. It is because it is simply difficult for the government leadership party to discuss the defense agreement, the matter of NATO. I have to encourage the highest. Minister as representative of the Independence Party to hold these matters well. It's just that we haven't even seen an update on the national security policy to be updated last year. Is it by chance that it has not been better handled, the national security policy that the government hides behind, that even if it has been established, it has not been updated? I'd also like to ask the Minister, as long as she's here to answer, "What about the defense agreement?" It's the highest. Ministers also agree that we should not update the agreement? Because the update has, of course, been based on the basis of the defense agreement. It is important to bear in mind. [[The president calls.]] The deal has not been updated, it is always there. While we are still unsure of how to react, how to call the United States, whether the deal is online or not, we need to get a clear line on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Clearly, this does not mean waiting for national security policy to be updated today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u96	President wants less of the highest. Minister and minister. Congress officials see that the session is limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u97	Madam President. That's three. First of all, I cannot agree that the nation's greatest interests and security in our work, work, or evaluation are not being cared for. With the point earlier, I was saying that I didn't feel that they had discussed too much about involvement in the European Union. Although some people think that it's enough, I prefer to point out that it wasn't that much. I agree that groups with clear vision should speak of that vision, but it is not the role of governments to convince the nation of Europe because it is not the policy of the current government. With regard to the defence agreement, there's a lot of room to make decisions and to add to them as well as to other factors. I couldn't agree more. A senator and what I've heard from her before. There is a cold interest assessment of what is needed at any given time in the Keflavík safety area, the presence, the surveillance, the equipment, and the like. It is then subject to the State Department's approval at that time, and in this way there is sufficient room for the defence agreement to make such decisions in order to ensure our safety here, our own defences, but also for us in order to perform the role that the Atlantic Alliance should play. We have an important role there, i.e. If they think that there is a need to have an increased presence here to monitor or ensure the overall safety of the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u98	A respectable president. The entire security environment of the world, whether we like it or not, must be made up of an active conversation with the person who has made a commitment to ensure the outside defenses of our State, the Icelandic nation. This conversation must take into account the events of the past few weeks, and our interests must take into account what has happened. That is why we have to go into evaluating and discussing with the United States to pick up the contract and ensure safety and protection. Surely we do. We must also appreciate the circumstances in which the European Union is increasingly taking more to heart the protection and safety issues of the continent. What are Danir doing? They have come to realize that this out - of - date command not to sit at the counter when it comes to defense issues is not going to work. That is against the interests of the Danish people. Therefore, all classes are fighting for approval in the National Order of Nations to cancel that warning because they think it is better to be at the table. And that's why I ask--or it's hard for the Minister to answer now and therefore not fair of me to ask Minister. But that's why I'm just saying, it's better for us Icelanders to be at the table, not only when it comes to securing business freedom, increased and larger markets, making sure that when we're in the world, we have a larger market for our products, which increases our peace and freedom in the continent, but we must also want to have something to say when the European Union is about the security and protection of the continent. [[The president calls.]] Shall we discuss the north? Shall we? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Yeah, let's do it. Should we also discuss increased weight from many other places? Is it not better, then, to be in a safe place with our friends? We are strong, we Icelanders, but we are even stronger when we are together and are united with other nations. That's what we're supposed to do, and that's what we do best by being partners in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u99	Madam President. We're here to discuss a foreign secretary's report on foreign and international matters. A lot of what? Today, members of Congress have discussed how little attention foreign affairs have been given here for years, the national security and protection. I hope that this will change in the coming years and years compared to the situation we live in today's world. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, spoke before me, and I'm going to try to discuss the northern languages. I wanted to get into the work mentioned in the report that is this new core policy for the Atlantic Alliance, NATO 2030, which is aimed at its approval at the June affiliation of the coalition. Everyone should realize that it is long ago that a new core policy will be adopted for the Atlantic Alliance instead of the 2010 value. In current policy, it is a policy to work closely with Russia. Understandably, a Community policy may be based on such cooperation. The population of nuclear weapons and the rise in Russian missile technology that we have read about in the news in recent years are numerous. Factors that call for a new framework for NATO. This may be one of the most important principles for the coalition written since the signing of the Washington Convention on April 4, 1949. A Russian government attack in Ukraine, the woes it has brought upon the Ukrainian nation, will surely affect a new beginning. It can also be expected that the focus will increase on climate in a new policy. The climate was relatively low in 2010, but it has developed dramatically and is very much discussed in NATO and NATO today. The world's security and energy, and especially in Europe, will know that my knowledge of the political debate over the years ends these two issues with a strong bond. This is then linked to climate and energy exchange and green energy. I have a feeling this is just going to be the main conversation in Europe for the next few years. That, in turn, is joyous, and it is published in the report and in the speech of the highest. Minister, that we are now entering a panorama of multi-itemity in Helsinki, which was initiated two years ago, or a little over a year ago, when we agreed here at the General Assembly 230 million, it reminds me of this ducking place, where we went to Helsinki. Then we seek to enter an Internet security site in Tallinn. In recent years the number of countries in the Atlantic Union has increased and is today 30. Last came North Macedonia into my mind, 2020. By expanding the coalition by increasing the number of member countries, we are aimed at building security in our part of the world. In recent years, the international focus in the Atlantic Community has been on equality. But better yet, if sufficient, the emphasis on women, peace, and security, which is the policy we have been following, will be called upon to become strong into the Community's core policy of 2030. Me and the Icelanders have put a lot of emphasis on this, and that's good. During the last two weeks, we have discussed the invasion of the Russian government of Ukraine, which has transformed the European world scene, and we are looking for the next few decades. We have discussed significant changes in EU, Germany, Sweden and Finland policy, changes that would not have been impossible many weeks ago. I mentioned earlier about European security policy and energy policy, the enormously interconnected issues. It is now that the world's last 150 years of oil age has passed. Many of the world's history has been written around the oil age. Indeed, it is always the energy that forces communities and has an enormous impact on world politics. Then I wanted to introduce only the importance of what so many have discussed here today to revise the national security policy adopted here in the April 2016 Congress. When she was approved, it was noted that she would be reviewed within five years. There are extraordinary things that have happened in the past few years. It's been six years now in April, next month, since she was approved here at the council. These include the storms of December 2019, which had a major impact on the transport systems of electricity and telecommunications in the country, on the Smokey Peninsula, on Europe's war, on food security, on chain break, all basic issues for Icelandic society. I think that in a revised national security policy, these issues will be further emphasized. The national security policy is mainly at 11 points, and there are points designed to specifically establish food and food security, health security and epidemics, dot 7, the management and safety policies of the government, which are part of the national security policy for Iceland and will take into account threats related to climate change, natural disasters, food and food safety, health security and epidemics. To me, the 2016 national security policy was the first step in developing national security legislation, as we know in all our neighbors. Almost every country in Europe is national security legislation on key factors that contribute to national and national security. So there is an important point. A report by the minister of foreign and international affairs 2021 is widely covered, but I wanted to discuss the northern issues and their importance. Last year, a northern policy was taken that included the one listed here. Participate in and out. paritaprevir Buttti Haraldsdóttir led them to work. It was a great course, a very well-tempered introduction. There are 20 points of such emphasis. Maybe the highest. A minister tells us something about where the synonyms smell on the northern affairs and the introduction to an approved strategy. More reports were made. A former senator, Össur Skarphéðinsson, led one with many exciting ideas about Greenland's affairs. He had a set here about the Faeroe Islands, and then it was a business report on Greenland. The Arctic policy stated that Iceland should actively participate in international cooperation on north-land issues on the basis of the values guided by Icelandic foreign policy, including of peace, democracy, human rights and equality. Another point that I find very important is to protect the health of the ocean, including counteracting threats of ocean acidification and pollution of any kind. We need to keep an eye on the acidification of the sea, whether in Icelandic jurisdiction or north, that is important. Another point is to emphasize the reduction in the use of fossil fuels in the north, including the risk of shipping burning black oil, improving access to renewable energy sources, and promoting energy exchange measures. These are very good material points that have been loved, but I have to mention two more points that have been interested in me, and Iceland is working on strengthening the monitoring and securing more safe transport at sea and at air, including with improved communications and increased transmission of satellite systems, e.g. via satellite guide. I think it's extremely important to search and rescue, and only in general to be able to communicate in the north, to monitor transport, and to have enormous potential, in Iceland and in particular in Greenland, and, of course, all the north. Then, on the basis of national security policy, it is this point to keep the security profile in agreement with other North countries and our alliances in NATO, to recommend military development and work diligently to maintain peace and stability in the region. This is a bit of an interesting point considering what the situation has been building up on the last two pages, but, of course, we should plan on doing this. Then I just wanted to discuss the essential development team. In many ways we have been doing a very good work, both in Rwanda and Uganda, and then there are ideas now in Sierra Leone, coming in there. Two and a half years ago, about Thirty months, I went to visit with NATO to Addis Ababa. We even met. representative of the Council of Africa and ambassador. Much was discussed about how difficult the situation is in many parts of Africa with democracy. There were three or four exemplary countries in Africa, one of whom was to be exemplary republics for Africa, where there was to be 52 countries in Africa. Then, within a year, there was a very serious situation there. But what you may have learned in Africa is how much population growth is expected there, and it has to do with us in so many ways. Today, some 1,200 million people live in Africa. In 2035, after 13 years, it is estimated to be 1,800 million. By 2050, the estimated 2.4 billion people live in Africa. It is climate change, epidemics, and crops fail. That's why we need to keep building up as much as possible in Africa and make the best of it, the huge problem of population growth. There are fears of natural disasters and of tsunamis moving north into Europe and in all directions. And then we can be talking about hundreds of millions of people who go on the road. We even expect 10 million Ukrainians to go on the road now, become refugees, these are predictions that you now read, of which hundreds of millions are talking. And this could happen in the next decades. So we must do all we can to help our friends in Africa, There's a lot of things going on in a report like this, and I've only been close to three things. Then I'd like to celebrate just at the end of the year that 75% of Icelanders, according to a recent survey, follow NATO; 9% of the population wants Iceland to pull out of NATO, but 16% is unscheduled. It's pretty clear, so I'm just coming in today. This is a survey I saw at the core last night, from a new Gallup poll. This talk will be as much as it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk, and also for the cooperation of the NATO Committee, we can discuss this under the following report. It is interesting to see that, fortunately, there is total opposition to Iceland's membership in NATO to shrink and perhaps to the left green and even less than what says very much. So I think that the left green, and I encourage those here for it, should be used to revise the vision and policy at the present time, at any rate their sisters in the North countries have gone to do so. All right, then. A senator is not of that category. But he's very interested and knowledge of defense and security and because he came into NATO, that's also what we're discussing, I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he can provide for himself - in view of the fact that all of the alliances are adding to their contributions, to raise the budget, Danir goes up to 2% of the target, Germany at last, and other nations are both adding and promoting their defenses and solidarities within the Community - that we Iceland too can contribute to that goal. Blessedly, we have no army, but we are very powerful in civil service, and I wondered if. A senator sees that we can promote this aspect so that we can increase our participation more firmly and more firmly than is now being done. More than anything else, he determined that we are still full of participants, as we were right away at the Council of 1949, i.e. that we are still active in strengthening and strengthening solidarity inside and outside the Community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u101	Madam President. Yeah, me and the Icelanders don't have an army, but we've done civil service with NATO, e.g. for air traffic in Cosvo and Kabul, Afghanistan. We have been performing various services related to this, e.g. magazine journalists have been working quite well for NATO and some such civilian activities. Iceland and I have also emphasized the equality issues and have done quite a lot of work in NATO at the headquarters of Brussels. Of course, we are to have a very active share in this work. It tells itself that this is one of the most important partnerships we are involved in. I have often talked about how fortunate it was for the people to join the United Nations in 1945, NATO 1949, the 1951 Defense Convention, and the 1952 Northern Union. These decisions were large in their time, and of course we should do all we can to work closely with our friends in NATO. I think there's also a way to build up communities, such as Eastern Europe, in energy, because I think security and energy issues are going to be integrating in the next phase. It's enormously large, I think, can be involved in cooperation, and we can get into civil activity that turns to NATO in a number of ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer and agree with him that our contribution has been important through this civil service. We have also had very good professionals in the press and magazine culture, and we have recently seen that our best people have been jumping in and helping. The equality is also of utmost importance. Still, I'd like to ask you why. A senator on the defence agreement, one of our two cornerstones of defense and security policy. Of course, the other cornerstone is the NATO, a two - sided defense agreement with the United States. He's from 1951 and has not been taken up by any means. He must have had to be scratched and adjusted, including... ... afterthemoment of the Army. However, it remains that the contract does not make it clear whether he is involved in online or Internet attacks. It is not clear in contracts how long Americans will give themselves to respond to our call for help to protect us. I think it is our duty to speak with the person who is most responsible for handling defenses for us Icelanders in this way. The cooperation with the United States has been so good in general since 1951 and through history. This is a precious partnership. This is an important partnership for us. We have to grow it, but I believe the monologue is that we have, in the light of the hard and fast development now in the world's security, to take up this contract and discuss with our friends, Americans, how to sharpen and explain certain things. So I ask. A member of Parliament: Is he opposed to talking to the Americans about explaining and sharpening these items in the defense agreement and after the incident?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u103	Madam President. I wouldn't say no, and I think it's just normal. There is nothing that prevents us from considering it. Now I just don't know what it would be like for us, who are sitting on the Foreign Affairs on the matter of being able to talk to the Ministry about the defence agreement, its nature, and exactly what it says. In general, we do not have access to exactly what is behind the agreement. There is some process that would have to be opened if we were to consider, and then we would just have to look at it. I wanted to add what we had discussed earlier on the civil passage of Iceland to the Atlantic Alliance. We've been doing a lot of work in Iceland, expanding our operations, building up our services like the air defense system and the radar station. There's been a lot going on. Then we are increasing the number of civilian experts working for NATO abroad from nine to ten up to thirteen or fourteen this year. It's being added constantly to the budgets that are involved, and I think it's just really good. I will not deny to look at these matters, everything behind them, if a foreign business committee can have access to them, or we who sit there. Of course it is. Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense of the United States, who will handle these matters, but I do not object to it personally. [[Up front.]] I don't think it's unnatural after 70 years. I don't know this story exactly. This has not been discussed directly until we began discussing this a few days ago in connection with the attack on Ukraine, which all of this takes place. [[Up front.]] I'd like to reiterate the importance of discussing these matters as much as possible here at the Senate Hall, whether it's foreign or national defence and security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u104	Madam President. I wanted to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the Foreign Minister of Þórdís Reykfjörð brown Gylfadóttir Gyphatir for a large and extensive report. This is certainly a large doll and paper much better used than the government policy file where there was too much pictures. At least there's a lot of text here, and all I'd like is to point the top. The minister's supposed to be that there's a little short time to read such a thick donut when we get it late the day before. Anyway. There is much interesting in this report, which is especially good for us who come back to the council for a comprehensive perspective on the work of foreign service. Although at times I felt that I had started reading a travel program for the highest. Minister of office is much of the inside which is very interesting. I think that one thing we have to watch is that over the past few years have truly proved how important it is to have good foreign service and to have the network of people all over the world as help and care for things for Iceland when things happen. I personally learned how well civil service supported us from Iceland, who lived abroad, during the reign of Covid. We have also seen in recent months how civil service has been linked to Afghanistan and now in our last Ukraine. We should also not forget that this same foreign service also plays a vital role in the election. That is where the embassy and the voters play a vital role. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to work on increasing the network of dictators around the world, especially in Africa, where there are often hours of driving for people to reach their next district or even many days of driving. It is also important to remember that a part of the foreign service is also doing business relations around the world. But there's still a little bit of what you read that the main link is where we're selling the fish. We really need to open up on them, think of creative articles and the software industry and where we need to support our companies, individuals, pioneers, and others who are looking for business connections in that area. Much of what the Ministry does, though it fell out of the vow of the Minister, is developing cooperation. Of course, it is a pleasure to see an increase between years and to be doing what we have to do, which is to support the less developed countries and to support them with the expertise we have. The report discusses some 500 million. K. A large part of the development team is still going through two-way partnerships with other countries or directly with regional governments in other countries. For us who have long been in development cooperation, it is reverse evolution compared to what you see in other countries trying to do. They're trying to go more through company and less in two-way cooperation. There is something that we need to examine, but it takes time to change, and it can be done. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson mentioned earlier, that it is also important to promote the social responsibilities of an enterprise. At that time, I was particularly sad to read that there had been no applications for the pioneers'financial resources in connection with connection with pioneers in the process of developing. Perhaps we need to work together to improve this. Finally, with regard to development cooperation. We've been slowly getting back into how many percent of GDP we provide for development support. Last year she went up to 0.32%. This year, the goal is to raise it to 0.355%. When it comes to doing so, I especially want to make the most of it. Ministers - because we know the state of these days and weeks, and we also know that thousands of Ukrainians will likely come here for the next few weeks and months - that we will not forget developing cooperation. That we take not too much money from it, especially none, for this project, but use it to the highest level. A minister sees the solidarity and support they have at the Ukraine Parliament to draw additional funds for their work. In addition to the long - term attention of the development team, climate and more conflict have resulted in the need to focus on emergency help as well. There we Icelanders work hard to make money when needed. Maybe we don't have enough money to put into everything, we think our little $1 million is a small percentage when you ask for $1.2 billion. But if they are properly treated and chosen by the right people, they are making special use of money. It is also important to do so, as is the highest. A minister has now in the Ukraine, to provide financial support quickly, because when it comes to emergency relief, we need to do things quickly. There is also increasing opportunities for aid and humanitarian assistance to increase cooperation with other European countries in that area, so-called the European Community public security work, and, if I recall correctly, 17 other countries, which is something we Iceland have used but not necessarily been part of. I'm the highest. A minister to increase its cooperation, even though public defenses fall under the Ministry of Justice, this transition has in some way resulted in a lack of good use. This program allows people to be sent through, and I have been on what was called in the old list of peacekeeping. In fact, this is no longer a peacekeeping policy, at any rate I cannot find that word in the report, but this list could be used much better if it were considered to be part of this cooperation with the EU. I see that next on the rosary is the former minister of state, the present environmental, energy and climate minister, and since I know that the current minister of foreign affairs is the former Minister of innovation, I'd like to encourage these three Supreme Ministers. In fact, a minister who comes all from the Independence Party is working together when it comes to what is mentioned many times in this report. It contains, for example, spoke of that in our offices around the world, I took it, the demand for cooperation in energy, green solutions, and sustainable investments was notably evident. The report also says that Iceland's policy for international development defines sustainable development as a guide and that climate and environment are fundamental interest issues for Iceland. If we take all those beautiful words, you see, there's a big opportunity for Iceland. We're a nation using sustainable energy. We are a nation where the innovation in this field has been strong. We're a nation that gets a lot of students from around the world to learn, for example. how to use geothermals. And if you think of a large group of people working across this Ministry I believe you can set up an international knowledge and innovation center on climate and environment, a center that builds on the basis that, for example, is available. is in the GRO institutions, based on the knowledge here, based on the excellent foundation society that we see here. It doesn't have to cost so much money to build up such a knowledge and innovation center because the funding in this field is a lot around the world, and you can attract a lot of that money to Iceland, and by doing the little money you need to put into such sets and get it back in a short time. I'm sure there's something in this report that I could spend another 15 minutes saying that this or the other one could be better, etc. or argue about whether or not we should be in the EU or NATO. I believe it is a better use in my time after reading this report to bring encouragement to the highest degree. A minister to where we can expand the good work we do because there are plenty of other people here who have pointed out where we should not be doing something. I want to finish by thanking you not only for the report but also for the cooperation that has taken place between the Ministry and the Ministry and the State Department, especially during the past few weeks but also before that. That's how we work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and wanted to mention some of the points he came on, what has to do with international development cooperation on the other hand, and two - sided development teamwork on the other hand. Examples of increased emphasis on global development are climate contributions, vaccine harmonization, humanitarian assistance, and such. In Malawi, we have been working with governments, and this is in fact also an export of intelligent, intelligent, exporting of attitudes, practices, and practices. It has led to a growing state, with far more money, having the courage to follow our steps, but perhaps never, and perhaps very late, to make a decision to take a stand and test it. We have done so well, and today there are bigger countries, with much more money, to come and do the same to help society help themselves. I agree completely with what. A senator when it comes to not forgetting other territories. This is not about choosing between helping the Ukrainian people and others. We must be aware that although it is closer and in part because it has become a matter of security and protection for us here, we still need to consider that the major problems of the larger areas have not disappeared. We still need to give in to it and do even more. Finally, I agree with you about the foreign trade. We need to increase our focus on innovation. We've been doing it, but we need to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u106	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-relevant, there's not much to ask. But I'd like to say, "Yes, it's good that we're trying new ways, but we're also gonna need to be careful to increase all the routes. " My motivation is to continue to increase our cooperation with the organization slowly. We've already heard it in the development team how well things move in there to make frame deals and other such. I think it's very good. We certainly must not forget the other countries, and neither did we when Covid came up. We gave money to the Covid Team, but we didn't just shut down everything in Malawi while some countries did, unfortunately. Some countries took all their development cooperation back in some countries and just said, "Excuse me, we're gonna spend all our money dealing with Covid. I'm the highest. Minister to come to the council for more money. It's the fourth minister of the Independence Party - they have to negotiate with him, but the council is of the same mind. I'm the highest. A minister to take advantage of that thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u107	A respectable president. There is reason to commend the highest. Secretary of state for a clear and clear report and review. The work of foreign service is exemplary in the way it should be handled. The object of the foreign service is wide, and the report is being received by sufficient means. Of course, it is evidence of much preparation before Pútín invaded Ukraine just a few days ago. Of course, since then, the invasion has been rife in a discussion of international affairs, and reading the report gives you some thought to how much can change in a very short period of time. Everything in the world is fleeting. It made the poet. Now that I've started fighting, it's appropriate to start with security and defenses. As described in this report, Iceland's cornerstones and defenses are part of the NATO and the United States defence agreement. The events of the past few days have also demonstrated the white significance of this event. In order to ensure Iceland's participation and contribution to this defence team, we need to ensure renewal, business and maintenance of our defenses and to ensure that this is a place of equipment according to our commitment. Our neighbors and colleagues have a huge increase in expenses for safety and protection in terms of increasing tension and instability in our environment. So it's a good thing that on the duty of our lndependence Department, these cases have been taken seriously. The Ministry Department's Defense Department has been reactivated, a special unit of multivariate threats has been established and has been subject to significant maintenance and restoration projects on defence operations in security areas. Our active participation in defense-related projects and maintenance of our services is also in harmony with our national security policy, which clearly determines Iceland's contribution to support security and protection projects. There we will not leave ours there. Security and defenses are focused on heading north. For the second time in the history of the Council of North Pole, all the foreign ministers attended a successful meeting here in Hörpa last year. There, an ambitious Minister's Declaration was signed, and for the first time, an agreement was reached for a future policy to the north. There is uncertainty about the effect of Russia's invasion on the relations of Russia with the western Arctic countries, but it is almost certain that electrical communication will spread there. The declared objective of Iceland and other Arctic countries to the low level of tension in the north is hard - hitting with the rise in military development in the region. A respectable president. According to a report by the secretary of state, international development cooperation is 37% of foreign spending last year. However, it is clear that significant relapses have occurred in the field of development, and in some places it has been successful again for decades. Well, that's pretty much bad news, isn't it? This includes: for in equality in developing countries, particularly in the growing number of children's couples and in premature teenage pregnancies. Thinking about it is more important than tears, and it should motivate us to stress such development projects and their effectiveness. It is positive that Iceland has contributed to COVAAX and to UNICEF vaccine work to provide equal access to vaccines in developing countries. The fact is, however, that the proportion of fully vaccinated persons in Africa is about 11% and the percentage of vaccinees in the worst - graded countries is shamefully low. The world's access to vaccines is certainly not equal, and I've missed that there's more to these views here, but the focus has been a challenge to vaccinate citizens with a third and a fourth dose of vaccinees. There is also concern about the magnitude and severity of a pandemic has affected primary vaccination with life-threatening infectious diseases in developing countries. Emphasis on the rights of queer people in the whole state service is to be followed by the human rights of the Icelandic foreign policy. There the development team is not divorced, and Iceland is particularly monitoring the rights of queer people in cooperation and focus countries in developing cohesion. Unfortunately, many pots are broken, and in one of three countries, queer relationships are still considered a crime by law. In many parts of Africa and the Middle East, conditions are very bad in this regard. Horror stories of persecution against queer people on the Gaza coast, Uganda, or Chechnya do not allow anyone to be impressed. It is our duty to uphold the universal rights of humans, to apply always, and to all. Thus, it is positive that special funds are spent on projects in developing cooperation to support the rights of queer people in developing countries. I have to be especially happy that the United Nations Young People's Programme will continue, but Icelandic youths gain a wide range of experience and knowledge of multinational development cooperation. Well, it's great to hear that the Icelandic GRO schools have responded after Covid, which is one of our main favorites in international development. There is an enormous amount of value in promoting the ability of strains and individuals in developing countries in areas where Iceland has expertise. Then I'd like to encourage the highest. To the grappling of the development of the development work by the Minister of Foreign Minister Sierra Leone, which has been delayed because of a pandemic. I had the opportunity to get to know the country and the work there well, and I am sure that our expertise will be especially useful. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. A minister to pay attention to evolution, the fund that I know that it knows and was established in cooperation with the Ministry of Neons. I think there may be a great opportunity there to promote innovation and participate in founding institutions and innovations in development cooperation, but it wasn't assigned from the fund last year. A respectable president. When it comes to a foreign trade, which is one of the off-limits of foreign affairs, I stop at the EFTA section. It is clear that the best bits have already been chosen, so to speak, as well as tasks and conversations that are already open or hoped to begin will require more effort to expand the vacation network. It is also necessary to update and modern - day negotiations. EFTA activities face great challenges as well as opportunities. The evidence indicates that international growth will be largely out of Europe over the years, so open and free trade is of utmost importance to us. There is much at stake for European companies, employee and consumers to share in the enjoyment of this growth. Clearly, civil service continues to live up to the name and service of the Icelanders near and far away. It is a joy to see that the worldwide business watch set up for a pandemic is still operating. In this way, Icelandic companies can consult foreign services for solutions that need immediate relief, while the Icelandic foreign service brought the attention to many parts of the country's rocks for lprading services to people and businesses during a difficult pandemic. A respectable president. I want to end the tour, where I was forced to select from just a few points, to mention the business of the State Department. According to the provisional situation, the rest of the operation is left over. An explanation of this is a dramatic decrease in the number of visitors and other events. Although the world is in some way reaching its end, the increase in telecommunications and the decrease in the travel of public employees is clearly a source of joy. Faraway visits can never replace real world events, but they are a good addition, hopefully contributing permanently to fewer work trips. This is both practical and environmental.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u108	Madam President. I want, like other members of Congress, to thank you for your report. Foreign minister on foreign and international matters, but the nature of the matter, according to this, I will only be able to talk about a few details here during the short time available. First, I'm going to discuss the world's refugee situation. There have never been so many refugees in the world today. It is estimated that there are some 84 million, and more than 2 million of them have grown after Pútín invaded Ukraine. This problem is widespread. It is in Europe, of course, and, of course, is largely the result of war, whether in Syria or in Afghanistan or elsewhere, and unfortunately there is no indication of detraction. Why do I mention it now? I mention it because we're all very understandable, awake, and asleep over the situation in Ukraine, which is devastating. We are awake and asleep over what we can do to help the Ukrainean people and to help because there is war in Europe, at home. However, I would like to remind the U.S. Congress that less than a year ago, the government fell in Afghanistan after the U.S. and allied forces in NATO took their stand and took their place in a very short time, without proper preparation or arrangements that could have prevented the Taliban from ruling. The Afghan people remain, betrayed by us, who were trying to help for some 20 years. Our responsibility for the situation there will not go away despite an enormous and urgent task in our own continent, Europe. I would like to focus my attention on the north side, on the affairs of the north, in my brief speech. Iceland's policy on northern affairs was renewed at the last Parliament and adopted a thorough and sound policy which is intertwined with fundamental interests, fundamental national interests and national security interest in Iceland at all. It is based on the thought of sustainable development, the UN global objectives, the battle against climate change, the protection of nature, the guarantee of human rights, and, especially, the human rights of the natives and the well - being of those in the north. The Arctic Council is a key tool in dealing with countries that have borders or lie at the Arctic Circle. As senators know, eight states are part of the Arctic Council; the five Northern countries, Canada, the United States, and Russia. Iceland took presidents of the North Pole to the spring of 2021, where they were successful with the prehumanity in spite of various restrictions, mainly because of a pandemic. Today, Russia's government has taken over, and it is in accordance with the Council of North Pole's Council of Presidency in the North Pole to 223. I'd like to take this opportunity and go to the top. Minister of Foreign Affairs on the basis of the invasion of Ukraine was discussed by the other seven member states in the Council of North Pole. Arctic Council and ambition in cooperation in the north has always been based on the fact that this area should be free of warfare, that it was really an area where all communication would be peaceful, where a state would sit at the table on an equal basis. That's how it works in the North Pole, and that's why it's a very important place to cooperate with Iceland. Of course, the interests of these eight countries do not always go in full, of course not, and, of course, there are different countries. But how important it is that the tragic news and the attack by Pútín, Ukraine, take place within the Council, how it works, and how it works! The voice of Iceland has always been strong in the North Pole, and I have long felt that this is where Iceland can and has been very effective and successful. It is like our session at the Council of Human Rights, and it makes me happy to see here again that it is in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, in the years 2025◯2027, that we can use ourselves in a specific way, as in the United Nations and/or Arctic Council of Human Rights, and in a far greater way than we can do in other aspects of foreign affairs. I think it's important to take this opportunity to talk about it and call this position in the North Pole. It does not have to be a direct effect, but we know that it will have an effect, as if it affects all other communications between European countries. Otherwise, I would like to use the opportunity here in my brief talk to overture and join in with them. Council members who have discussed the value and need for Iceland to complete member information with the European Union. This was shown in both cases. Logi "Einarsson" and "yeah." paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. We're facing a huge challenge in the continent. We are united in the role of the Atlantic Alliance, most of which are members of the General Assembly. It is very important now that everything has changed in just two weeks in Europe that we will consider it with a complete evaluation of Iceland's national interest and security concerns and that we will consider it with an open mind and seriously absorbing in Iceland's European member affairs. There is another field where countries enjoy equality at the table where decisions are made. It matters, and we know as a small nation that it is more important to us than anything else in international cooperation to be equal to other nations at that table, where machines are being carried out on the future of mankind, I intend to say, whether it is at the scene of the climate agreement, in the European Union, in the Arctic Council, or in any other place where we will take ourselves from the state. I'd also like to use this opportunity to point out that, within the cooperation between North and North Pole, work is carried out in working groups where experts work together. I remember these are six groups of experts who are doing an enormous amount of work and research, including... in the fields of health, welfare, and other important matters in the North. I believe there are many initiatives not only in scientific research but also in policies that can benefit us in other areas and in other cooperation. I don't need to reiterate the importance of environmental issues in the North. As everyone knows, Arctic and North Pole are areas where climate change could first and most. That was just 25 years ago, when the North Pole was about to begin, it was spoken of as an impossible possibility that the permafrost in Siberia and in the north could begin to yield and release methadone. Now it's happening, and we could even be getting closer to a vent point in the dreary trend of climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to mention it, since it's not overspoken that the trend in Afghanistan by the end of the last summer is said to be a bit of a disappointment and a lot of anxiety. It is important that fanatical groups do not return to their homeland, and there will be a sanctuary for terrorist forces, such as when the Taliban was the last country's government. We must respond to the dire circumstances there has been created and protect the many successes that have been attained in the past two decades as far as possible. With regard to the Arctic Council, members of the council, apart from Russia, have temporarily suspended participation in all council meetings and its subsets in protesting the invasion of Ukraine. According to a declaration by the Member States, minus Russia, Member States are convinced of the value of the Arctic Council for cooperation in northern regions and restructuring support for the management and activities. The people of the north, including the natives, are responsible for their efforts and benefit from the important work of the Council. As is true today, everything is found in freezing temperatures. For a meeting scheduled for April in Russia, it will not be so clear that something is not being cut. The task will go nowhere, and it will be a project for an extended period of time to stand back only to protect scientific cooperation so that what needs to be worked on can continue despite this political situation. Only less than three weeks have passed since we Ministers of the North had learned that it was important to keep low tensions high to the north, so things change rapidly. But we will have to find an landing in carrying out our job in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u110	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for clear answers. It is good to have this chair confirmed that the cooperation in the Arctic Council has been temporarily interrupted by the invasion of Pútín, Ukraine. There's something that's gonna have to respond to at the site and in such cooperation. At the same time, it is important, as is the highest. A minister mentioned, trying to make sure that the projects being done at the grass root do not wear out. But as noted, it has been the foundation of the Arctic Council and all cooperation in the Arctic to keep the area low, such as men interested in war science call it, and to maintain peaceful relations there. With Afghanistan, I thank you very much. Minister for addressing that too. Yes, it is difficult to keep our eyes on many matters at once, but we must not take our eyes off the most important things, and we need to continue in spite of the war in Ukraine. I'm glad to hear that the Minister has his eyes too on Afghanistan. What happens in these difficult times is that the cameras literally all go to the same place, cameras the newsrooms in the world, but that doesn't mean it's not in trouble, there's no conflict, there's no famine in other countries, and I'm referring to Afghanistan and the Yemen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u111	A respectable president. Listening to the discussion here has been fascinating. I just got swallowed up a little earlier when I got to the top. The minister of state said that the war in Ukraine, and its subsequent reversals, did not necessarily mean that the role of the European Union is becoming more important. Why might Ukraine, Moldova, and Georgia now be so eager to be involved in the European Union? Why might Danir be holding the next summer's national fee to participate in the defense work at the European Union, i.e. to disappear from what has been accomplished in these activities since the contract of the Member States was made at the time? Why might it be that the French, which have been more stable on the brakes against the enlargement of the European Union, are beginning to recognize in a very decisive way the need for the Eastern states, vulnerable to the aggressive Russian government policy, to the protection of the relationship? Is it not because, more dignified president, these nations and national leaders realize that the role of the European Union is and will now be more important than ever before in history? When directly invaded a sovereign democracy in Europe, it sort of tells itself that a state of state belonging to most European countries and that was directly established to promote and maintain peace in Europe - this relationship has an extremely important role and must work accordingly. Jean Monnet, one of the European Union's pioneers and founders, said that Europe would be developed and made up of some kind of major problem. I'm just going to say this in English, not French, though: This proved to be a reality in the financial crisis and its sequelae, indeed, in response to the pandemic, and this is happening in a very decisive way following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The European Union has then been involved in the development of more extensive and more economic forced action - in fact, we can call this economic war - than ever before in history. It is the European Union that has taken a very active role in the battle of information, false news and other developments in Eastern Europe. In fact, it has been part of the European Union to send military data to Ukraine, something that would have seemed impossible a few months ago. During these past few days, both Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French president Emmanuel Macron have spoken of a new era in Europe that requires more coordination and cooperation in the field of Europe. Germany has broken its defense and security policy and encouraged other European countries to follow that example. I must say, I suspect that almost all liberal and international - minded European leaders disagree with the highest degree. Iceland's secretary of state to see that the role of the European Union is not necessarily any more than before. It is simply so that we are faced with a somewhat new reality in international affairs, and the European Union has shown in the past few weeks that it has all manner of growth, and so the community is within it, among these Western democracies that divide values in so many ways, to develop in harmony with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u112	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before the talk and just wanted to respond to what he was most concerned about, which is the role of the European Union and my words there. I hope that the relationship is going as best as possible to achieve its goals and to understand well and only quite well that Ukraine's countries are applying to it for membership. In fact, it has been a long time since they did, and the European Union has not been very effective in answering when it comes to their involvement in the relationship. My words turned to their role in security and protection, i.e. that it is natural for the European Union to look more into security and protection because of the situation that has come up, but this does not necessarily mean that the role of the European Union is becoming more involved in this context. If we look at the potential of the European Union and its role and share within the Atlantic Community, the fact is that about 80% of the activity and capital within the Atlantic Community comes from countries that are not in the European Union. It is only natural for the European Union to reevaluate its status in these matters now, as do individual countries in the Union, we do, and I think that most if not all countries do too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u113	A respectable president. It may not be surprising that the United States and Britain, along with possibly Germany and France, are the countries that spend most of their time in the defense work in the field of NATO. Today, over the past few weeks, it seems that it is the European Union's will to expand its role in defending matters. These arms shipments to Ukraine are for example. A pretty clear example of that. This is something I don't think we would have thought of a few months ago. When it comes to wrestling with unacceptable safety threats, e.g. false news, information and online attacks, is also taking place more active than ever before. This economic forced operation - of course, it is, in a sense, a defensive and security policy that is being run there. It is the European Union that follows it, just to promote peace and try to cope with this enormous threat of peace with efficient, peaceful means. I'll repeat what I said earlier. I think this view of the minister of the European Union and its future, that there is nothing necessarily to take on additional roles when it comes to security and defense, is actually a vision that conflicts with what most of Europe's best leaders are calling out for right now. Of course, I agree with that word. Minister that the European Union has got to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u114	A respectable president. We'll discuss a report by the secretary of state. I have to admit that I think I have participated in this discussion every year since I was a member of the council, but it's a pleasure to see how many people are participating in the discussion right now. The matter is urgent, and in fact, we have always had to talk about foreign affairs. It may not have been enough, but, of course, the situation is now that we need to discuss this matter. I'm going to agree with what I've heard many senators say here, commending the highest. Foreign Minister for his career in the last days. It is important that this state of society be united, and it is important that we speak in a loud and clear way when it comes to invasion of another country, breaking international law, and breaking people's human rights. We should always use our voices in such a way, and we should always speak clearly, and for that, I want to give the highest praise. Minister. I'll also admit that I didn't expect such war to come in Europe at the time of my being here at the council. In fact, I thought it was over for us to see armed soldiers, tanks, bombings, and such in Europe. I just believed that it wouldn't happen again. I am aware, though, that of course, there are threats, but you may be expecting a different threat, because of environmental security, social security, and other issues and more likely to be in the form of, or something like, war. But these pictures that now appear to you every day are just horrible and something that I thought we wouldn't have to experience again. I'd like to say, of course, that we've seen this tension more extreme, and unfortunately, in the Western world, we just haven't taken it seriously enough. Pútín and his actions have threatened our world scene for quite some time, it's not totally new. You often wonder: " Could it have been possible to get down harder when a raid was made into Georgia? ' What about the Crocians and when Lúkasjenkó actually steals the Presidential chair in Berenusland, which, of course, is the only reason that it is now possible to invade Ukraine through White Rusland? All of this makes you think about these things, and especially that, through our cooperation, we work very closely along with the North countries as well as with the Baltic States. These three smaller Baltic States are closely associated with us, and they are very grateful for our support at the time, but they have also called for additional assistance for some time. They have been telling us what the threat is, since, of course, they experience it from their neighbors and have been doing it for quite some time. I'd like to talk about the northern community too. I'm just gonna look over here, there's so many things I would've wanted to say. As chairman of the Council of Northern Iceland, I come to appreciate the importance of working closely with the North countries. These are countries with which we have a great deal of common social, social, and security issues. Of course, it was a little new that we saw it at the Council of the Northern Union this fall that Director - General Jens Stoltenberg attended and gave a very good speech and gave some answers. It's a little new that at the National Council, we're talking about security. However, this was in the fall, and it shows that things have been rising, and we need to take them very seriously. Then I'm going to move to the North, which is a group of languages that I think is one of the most important things for us in the international context. This is where we are located in a very special place based on security and defense. We've been sitting at the North Path where we've been at the table, sitting at the table with the same vote rights as the rest of the Council of the North Sea, i.e. Russia on one side, the United States on the other side and Canada, and then the North countries all. I heard the talk and the conversation with the highest. Just as a minister before these speculations, so the matter of security has not been discussed in this regard, of course, for a reason. However, this has been called repeatedly because there is a need to find a location to discuss security in these areas. There, too, we have seen the Russians building their military strength in the north. They have been in considerable structure, and their argument is that they are guarding their borders, which may suddenly appear at the time of melting ice cream. But when this country is ruled by a party like Pútín, who shows off what he has done in the past few years, and especially during the last days and weeks, where we lie about what we are doing, then it's only natural for us to panic, and it's only natural for us to wonder: And what about the Arctic? What could possibly happen there? I'm just going to move on and go to the climate next, which is closely related to the Arctic. I'll bet you I'd rather expect we were talking about the North Sea risking climate change. Of course, it's totally excessive. I suppose we wouldn't be talking so much about Arctics if it wasn't because of climate crisis and ice melt, then there would be ice cream. But now the ice is melting, and it has an excessive impact on the entire environment, but also on our safety and protection interests. It's only been discussed here, and you have to wonder if it's not our biggest case. I've been telling you since I started with a council that climate was the biggest thing, but then there's always something else. There's a Covid, and there's a war in Europe, but at the same time, we can't forget that it's a huge cast of paint. Because, of course, the energy and energy exchanges in this country and that we are fortunate enough to have the opportunity to be completely self-sustained with energy if we go all the way into the energy exchange. As you look at the big film and consider what is going on in Europe today, it is tragic to see how Europe and, in particular, Germany, the largest states in the European Union, have allowed themselves to become dependent on energy, gas, from Russia, and what this purchase of gas is probably just about to flow into Pútín's military operations. You wonder: If these nations had gone further in meeting their climate targets, in exchange for energy sources for green energy, would the situation be better? At any rate, the good news is that Germany has taken decisive steps not to let gas flow now through the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, reducing or stopping all shopping for Russia's gas. Of course, this is far too short. I thought I had at least 15 minutes, but 10 minutes is way too short. I want to end this, Iceland's standard of living is based on free trade and services. They're huge cases for Iceland, and I think we've done a really good job on it, and I think we can best boast. Ministers, as well as former Ministers, for protecting Iceland's interests when it comes to these factors. The European Union does not have to be closely involved in cooperation with the European Union and its countries. The EEA deal is everything to us, not just the EEA agreement, but the general attitude of wanting to work with other countries, wanting to have free trade and services. [[The president calls.]] Then I will end what I started with: Of course, we should always - always, always - speak for human rights, equality, and international law, since that is the only way to achieve world peace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u115	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Councilmen for the discussion. I hope I'm sorry to be allowed to participate in this discussion, but the nature of the matter is a great deal of my heart. I hope the whole population is clear and confused. Senators are aware of the importance of this group of languages, but the discussion has been small, but hopefully it will be larger. A respectable president. Here, truly speaking of our involvement in the European Union, it must be corrected. First only because people have been talking about their agreement with the British. In fact, it was constructioners, Chairman of the Archipelago, why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who first talked about the opportunities in Baltrexit and anyone who has access to Uncle Google can find it. Then I'm referring to the fact that the European Union has not wanted to, although we are part of their closest friends, lend a hearing of it, or be very reluctant to do so - and hopefully it will change because now we're negotiating about other things with them, but that's why I won all my time as a foreign minister - to give us free access to the market for sea products. They've let the Canadians, the Japanese and the Mercosur-tollies have access, not to the EEA. Then it was said that the opportunities had not been changed in the contract with Britain. First, it should be noted that Britain's secretary of business specifically emphasized that the agreement we reached with the British was better than the one that the European Union had with them. Our dealings with the British have not been as close and extensive for decades. On top of that, we were given a contract that could mean far more access than we have today to the British fishing market. In addition, the import of agricultural products, of 1,000 tons of milk powder, and of lamb was expected. And even if there was some import in return, our small size was taken into account, a respectable president. If we take this out of the standard that may be normal for when the dairy products, as a percentage of the overall payment goal, we got a import of 8.3% versus 1.1% of import. However, the government wouldn't accept my proposal, but even if I left the Ministry, I don't doubt that it's still available. This has meant far better access to us than to our competitive lands and has increased our competitive motive. So it is not true when people claim that the opportunity was not new. Because we have free business freedom, we were able to make decisions about not doing so even if I was under the government. Here, people seriously speak of the fact that there is freedom of business to walk in the European Union. Free of business? When we walk into the European Union, it is that simple. If you look at the business report, Forward, march, you will find that we have 90% toll in our country while the European Union has 27%. When looking at data made during the adaptation interview, it was made clear that not only 75% of income and customs were entered into the European Union, since this is a common customs alliance, but it would require a new complex toll system that cost 30 million euros. Just to put it in some context, there were customs guards or customs workers in Iceland at the time of 168. If we compare ourselves with the countries that are next to us, such as Malta, then there were not 168 employees there but 430. In Luxembourg, 495. And if we compare our business network with the European Union, it is obvious that it is far greater. Here people also seriously speak of our safety as being better protected by joining the European Union. A respectable president. We are in good security because we are members of the Atlantic Community and we have a two - sided stand-up contract with the United States. Just to put this into context: From the defense of the Atlantic Community, there are less than 20% in the European Union. The European Union will never protect us. It is possible if such serious events were to happen. We can also name the energy issues. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir was well aware that what humans are living with today is the wrong decision of the European Union. The European Union did nothing about it, although everyone pointed out that Europe had become so dependent on gas, energy, Russia, 41%. On top of that, after Pútín entered Georgia, after going to the Crimea, it was decided to take on a project called Nord Stream 2, which was to further expand business with the Putin Government, further strengthen the economy of the Putin Government. This is the European Union, a respectable president. I know this case well because I took it up in a lot of meetings where I could. We should not look to the European Union when it comes to energy. If we talk about climate, why am I getting visitors from the world's major media to interview me, environmental, energy and climate minister? It's not, you know, a respectable president, because I'm so fun or anything like that. It has nothing to do with my alleged qualities or shortcomings. That's because we're so late on climate. We've been through two energy exchanges, the electricization and the thermal industrialisation. Was this the European Union that led to it at the beginning of the last century? Was it the European Union? - Yes, Mr President, I'm talking to you. A senator because there's everyone else, looks like me, the EU's gone from the hall. So I just have to talk to the only one left. I was hoping there would be only more. - So this argument doesn't stand at all. They talk about our economic strength as well. Wait a minute, let's go over it a little bit. Europe is far more than just the countries of the customs alliance. Is there especially a bad economic situation in countries outside the European Union? Is this something terrible in Norway? Is this something terrible in Switzerland? Is this something terrible in Liechtenstein? Is this something terrible in Britain? This argument does not hold water. People talk about things being so liberal in the European Union. A respectful president, only if we take one example, I have fought for the rights of gay people, both within the country and in the international arena. Should we review the countries we compare with in the European Union? Not all countries like the North countries are, unfortunately. Although they believe it is wise to walk in the European Union, I'm sure they're correct. We're losing business freedom, it's gonna be less business freedom if we walk into the European Union. It's cut and cut and the facts speak for themselves. It doesn't matter if people say freedom of business and the EU at the same time a thousand times, a million times, that doesn't change these facts. Happily, we are putting off the freedom to business that we had to fight for so long. When we have freedom in business, we have always been successful. How sad it would be if we would ever take the step of handing it over to others! Besides it, it would have a natural impact on the Icelandic economy. That's clear. A respectable president. Using security and protection issues in the same breath as the European Union - well, it's probably a matter of interviewing, but it's not good for those who want to be involved in the European Union. Then there are other things. Hv. Senators sometimes call for the European Union, and I'm always ready for it. I've talked mainly elsewhere because the EU has not been prepared for the discussion once it has been invented. I was Minister of Foreign Affairs for five years and I never wanted to do it. Councilmen who talked about walking in the European Union will discuss this with me. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, I hope that this discussion will take place, although I miss having senators who are now a member of the European Union in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u116	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for a shaken speech, and of course you can count on the fact that when the word the European Union is used in his mouth, his face may be a little red and his face will be somewhat angry, as it has not passed over any of the highest positions. There is a secretary to the European Union, either now or before. I'm the highest. A minister to take a pen in his hand or to sit at his computer, write an article and publish in the main European newspapers, and speak clearly as though there is no business freedom in Europe. I'd do it quickly and see how you'd react. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has he done a great deal of it when he has been attending meetings with European officials during his foreign affairs to assert to them that they do not live with business freedom, that it is that way in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany or France, or all European countries that people do not live in business freedom? This, of course, is a saying that doesn't hold any water. It's just that way. When we're evaluating the involvement in the European Union, and I can imagine the highest. The minister is a little nervous right now because he's seeing how the people of the country are changing into polls, getting involved in security and defense because Europe's nations are there with a range of consultations. to take action, a very harsh economic situation against Russians, which is, in fact, affecting the war effort of Pútín and the extent of its population. We have to talk about human rights, too, in this context. We need to talk about a currency. We need to talk about the economic situation in general and using the heat company here as some special reason for their case and as some point against the European Union so far-fetched that I'm not going to follow anything special about it. It is simply a matter of comprehensive interest in the nation. [[The president calls.]] It may change at any given time, but it is not absurd to argue that membership or debate in the European Union is more suitable today than at any other time, simply because Europe's position in peace and defenses is changing rapidly and at its highest. A minister is well aware of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u117	A respectable president. Talk about red and angry sledge. Senators. I make no comment when the senator gets angry a little, that's all right, the truth becomes the most angry. Hv. A senator asks: Have you discussed this with these nations that it is not a business freedom? Of course, it's no secret that it's a customs alliance. Does the senator think Danir and Sweden don't know because they're in a union? Believe it or not. A senator? One country was going out of the European Union, and what was the key evidence? They wanted freedom of business again. It's so weird when you're talking to what. Parliaments and those of the EU who sometimes pop up, though usually are of little value, discussing seriously, maintaining a conversation about whether the EU is a customs alliance or not. There was no department only what you were dealing with Brussels in Britain before they went out. Everything had to be started again. They had not made free trade agreements for decades because Brussels made them for them, and they were very conflicted with the emphasis because it was not British interests what it was like to do. The answer to the question of whether I spoke to colleagues and others in other countries is yes, but they do not have to be explained. They know. It's just Icelandic Europeans who somehow don't understand what's so different. And human rights. A respectable president. I was considering that, fortunately, we have more and more human rights than most countries in the EU. I need to explain it to you too. A senator? Is that not something that makes everyone clear? I find it courageous to talk about the currency and start talking about the euro, but I'm sure it's going over again. If you think the euro is revered all over the countries that have euro, that's a complete misunderstanding. When it comes to climate, we have a reason for looking at us. We have much to offer, and when people claim that we have something to follow the European Union on climate change no, we made these decisions ourselves that we are importing, the intelligence, such as The heating system. [[The president calls.]] It has nothing to do with the European Union, not anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u118	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, of course he has a meeting and has had a meeting with the major European rulers in his day as minister of foreign affairs. But what I'm trying to draw out is that although the state knows well that it's both commitments and things that are put out, people get something and give something, as is always the case -- I don't think there's any common knowledge about it in Europe, among European rulers, that there's no right to trade in these countries. I think it tells itself quite that no one looks that way. Of course, you may make sacrifices by associating with such ones as the European Union, but you too will receive a lot in return. It's like I was tracking down in my earlier speech, it's an interest estimate based on a number of different factors, and you can't take out one specific field and use it to strike everything else off the table. We have talked a lot about one of these things, which is the currency and the economic stability which in many respects is greater in these countries, especially in those countries that are closer to us and within the context because they have this larger currency. We don't have to get very deep into that discussion. But because we are discussing this now in connection with this war and this war, with which all of a sudden it is in Europe, that is, of course, a new dimension into the discussion. You're absolutely right, as hell. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said here today, that we may not have been enough to talk about much, including, the European Community. An alliance of peace. The European Union was founded on peace and played a major role in its peacefulness, but, of course, it was long before. There are so many sides of this die, and it's all about much more than just tolls like the highest. The minister's setting things up, somehow a top priority in all of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are many other areas, and all of these need to be integrated as we evaluate our interests. The situation today in Europe is yet another reason why walking in there is a good idea and Iceland's interests are better paid inside than outside. [[The president calls.]] This exchange does not change my view of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u119	The President reiterates it to what? Councilmen showing respect for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u120	President. Hv. Councilmen and members of the Residents have been talking about wanting to walk in the European Union for freedom of business. That's wrong, that's not gonna work. You're done with your business freedom. Hv. A senator has stopped using these arguments, this business issue of freedom, for they do not hold a single opinion, so that is good. However, he does not want to go to the depth of the discussion. I want to go to the depth, and I want to discuss all the factors. The more I get to talk about it, the better. I find this discussion very interesting. To argue that the European Union somehow guaranteed peace in Europe - NATO did so. And the countries outside the European Union in Western Europe, let's just say the EFTA countries, are creating no wars in the continent. Yet they are not in the European Union. It's just a complete misunderstanding if anyone claims that. But we're supposed to go to the depth, and let's go to the depth when it comes to the euro, let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u121	Talk about interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u122	Let's talk about the interest. They vary from country to country. But let's also get to the point where they're gonna be rich... Not only did a senator speak too long but he cannot listen to what is said here, but he cannot avoid it. [[Up front.]] If you have euro in Iceland, it means that when economic trauma occurs, and there are always fluctuations in all countries, unemployment will occur. That means unemployment. In case of a moment. Councilmen intend to speak to the euro, too, they must tell it - we can use an example that is not far from the story that has already occurred. If we had been with Euro, there would have been even more unemployment in this area, much more unemployment, as was the case with the countries that had the worst outcome. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator, like anyone else... - It's uncomfortable, but it's gonna be said anyway. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator will have to look people in the eye if he is going to talk to Evra and say: "You just have to put up with losing your job when the commercial situation changes. [[The president calls.]] Who will always be, and no politician can guarantee that this will not happen forever. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u123	My president. Councilmen are to use a speaker's stand to answer and address the following questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u124	Madam President. First, like so many here today, I want to thank you for this discussion and say how useful it is to have a regular discussion of foreign affairs in this room. I'd like to review some of the things I talked to the highest. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister, if there were no more fields to take these measures, would it not be a good example of a series of events that would be a good idea to receive a report in this form at least once a year? In many places today's debate has been discussed, and I just want to address one very specific point of a secretary's report that is still, that I believe, one of the key elements of the controversy that now exists with the Russians, where the international community is trying to pressure the Russians to stop their attack on Ukraine. It's a little confusing the situation with Russia's nuclear arms. It is harder to talk to countries with such weapons of mass destruction in the international field, which seem to be harder to push. In the U.S. Marshal's report. The minister is a chapter on disarmament, which emphasizes that disarmament is a key factor in Iceland's national security policy and that for international security, the key and priority of strengthening the implementation of a contract on the spread of nuclear weapons and the peaceful use of nuclear energy, called NPT contract, I must say, Madam President, not best. He's been around for a while. That is because this contract is burned to the point of perhaps being full on the basis of the nuclear powers. Therefore, peace lovers have long fought for the development of the five nuclear fires, which are part of the NPT agreements, thereby controlling the red strands of global disarmament speech. They're naturally fully invested in their weapons upgrades. What can a little Iceland do about this? Yes, we can take advantage of being one voice like all other countries, having one full voice in the international field. We are one of the kingdoms of the United Nations, and unfortunately we are one of the states of NATO. But in this regard, we can speak just as much as we can. We can talk about a real disarmament that is not only about the countries with nuclear weapons today being a little more neat with it but about their final extinction by the globe, i.e. The elimination of the weapons instead of the states to be clear. In this context, I'd like to mention two terms recommended and present at the Foreign Affairs Committee, a bill to legalize Iceland's nuclear-power-free peace descriptions, and a ban on nuclear-powered vehicles driving. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, on the other hand, is a proposal for the signing and validation of the United Nations Convention on the ban on nuclear weapons. I allow me to be a bit optimistic about the progress of these matters on the Foreign Affairs Committee, in view of the fact that among both embassies. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson, who we live in, is the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I was going to come up to the so - called Senate later, but first I'm going to describe the concerns I have with these matters because they have been submitted before. The proposal to sign and validate the United Nations Convention on Nuclear Prohibition was e.g. to be discussed here at the last council. There was a review from the State Department that stated that Iceland's nuclear policy is clear and includes the aim of a world without nuclear weapons. It also reminds us that national security policy contains special regulations that say that Iceland and Iceland are emancipated for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments, with the knife a little in the cow. The Ministry then tells us what it means to take these international commitments into account. The Ministry believes that the agreement on the ban on nuclear weapons is in conflict with Iceland's commitment to the Atlantic Alliance. I hope so. A foreign trade board will also agree whether it is really that Iceland does not have self-involved in these matters because we have entered the Atlantic Community, or if we as a state can use our sovereignty right to clear Iceland of nuclear weapons if we want or use our right to sign and validate the United Nations agreement on the prohibition against nuclear weapons made by 59 states and therefore a contract has become valid. This may have been what has changed since the Ministry of State first developed a decision regarding the contract that a year ago the Convention reached the threshold that 50 member states of the United Nations had validated it and became valid. Then NATO had lost out on killing this contract, which had been planned until that point. Now the deal has become a thing, and then this hardline from the military alliance is something that I'm not sure the Icelandic government needs to rent out any more. In fact, there is something else that the Icelandic government can do that does not conflict with any international commitments, and that is taking at least the conversation. This is so that the first member body meeting of the United Nations Convention on the Nuclear Ban will be held in our time, and the United Nations Secretary - General has encouraged the United Nations to participate in this first meeting, whether they do what validates members of the agreement or as representatives of the hearing. Now, I'd like to try to attempt to see if I would have the minister's exorcist to tell me if she's not willing to reconsider the position presented in a written answer earlier in the winter, that Iceland had no intention of sending an officer to the meeting, especially in view of the fact that, for example, Norway and Germany are going to do that. Norway and Germany have the same national commitments to the Atlantic Community but still plan to attend a meeting to hear what the members of the UN Convention on Nuclear Freedoms have done and whether they can contribute to the cooperation towards a non-terrestrial world that cannot be done in any other way, such as On the NPT deal that Iceland has set up all focus so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u125	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In my mind, there is a fundamental issue regarding a global ban on nuclear weapons - none of the countries with nuclear weapons is or plans to become part of the contract, so he will hardly yield the desired results. There is an agreement among the Member States of the Atlantic Community that while nuclear weapons are found in the world, common defenses will only be guaranteed by their subversive powers, whether we like it better or worse. Nuclear disarmament will never be practical unless it is mutual and has been fundamental to the position of the government of the United States. The agreement is approaching a very democratic state where it may be possible that democracy could influence national security in a way that if we lose sight of the lack of mutual disarmament, it could affect national security. The pressure seems to be reduced by the Russian and Chinese government and the North Korea government, who have built their armory in recent years. As a result, although the goal is noble, he does not answer how to deal with outlaws such as North Korea as a multiplies in his nuclear program. So I don't see myself, as the situation is now, that we will change our attitude about participation or as audience agents because we are totally involved and we are part of the view and position of the Atlantic Alliance when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u126	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister mentioned in his reply an organization as a matter of agreement, and it is true that it was the ICAN organization who fought for the day's approval and received the Nobel Peace Nóbel. But now there is no organization on this contract. It is the United Nations. The United Nations has become a contract, and some of the propaganda of those who want to resist the agreement is gaining weight. It's just not possible, it's real. And whether he will or will not produce the desired results - I don't think that's really important, I think that we need to give all the help that could be successful rather than trying ahead. If I were the war, I would point out that the 50th contract of NPT has failed to produce more results than that in the last 50 years the nuclear powers have increased. It is not only the Russians that are renewing their nuclear weapons but the British and the French are laying billions of dollars on it, and the Americans are constantly renewing their weapons. So: Is the NPT deal coming up with the desired results if we still have nuclear weapons around the world 50 years after it went into effect? It might be said that this was not so, so there is reason to help other work that is designed to produce similar results. V.E.G. At the end, a minister said that Iceland would not be involved, either as a full state of state or as an audition agent, because Iceland was involved and was part of the common view of the Atlantic Community. But there are Norway and Germany as well, and their representatives are going to attend. I don't know about any of them but that they're also on hand, and they're part of the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u127	Madam President. That's right, because the Norwegians and the Germans have said they're watching, but they've also said it in no way alters their stand. They are saying that they agree with our stand. They have not claimed to be members, but they have observed and attended an event, for I understand that there is really no such thing as an audience, that you are either a member or, as they have agreed, that I understand that you are attending this event that lies ahead. That's right, we still have nuclear weapons, and it's a big threat to the whole world. And you can ask how successful NPT has been. However, the question can also be asked: What will be the result of nations that are involved if nuclear powers are not even participants? At any rate, I wouldn't trust myself to stand by that, and I don't think it's responsible to go on a trip like that without the countries that have nuclear weapons, and I don't even have an interview about this company, to take some step in that direction. As so far as we have seen, we have reason to believe that a nuclear-free world should be headed for nuclear destruction and that nuclear weapons are being destroyed in a targeted and mutual way. This includes talking in that way within the United Nations and within the Atlantic Community, and we have supported a wide range of conclusions that have been in line for this purpose. But going on this expedition with no repute and no state, I wouldn't trust myself to support that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u128	Madam President. I'm just gonna understand the highest. Ministers left with the indication that there is something known as an officer on this contract. It is only from a letter that the United Nations Secretary - General sent to all members of the United Nations last September. I'll start by reading this up in English, and then I'll get it all over: The United Nations chief secretary of the nations has, therefore, given special attention to nations that are part of the United Nations. The United Nations Convention on Nuclear Prohibitions specifically suggests that countries like Norway and Germany can be represented by such countries as Germany and Norway because that is how we show support for the project that we must all agree with, whether we want to be formally part of a nuclear force or not. Surely, all of us would agree that we must use every means possible to destroy these weapons. Yes, the secretary - general of the United Nations - I encourage ministers to listen to him even if he is not listening to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u129	A respectable president. I'd like to start with that, because I've attended quite a lot of discussions about foreign affairs and foreign ministers' reports, giving the highest commendation. Secretary of State for having sat here all along and actively participated in a conversation. It is quite extraordinary in these days that we achieve this conversation, a conversation in this democratic field that we are, of a lawsuit that has rarely been as important as now, that we just keep our eyes on the ball, so I want to thank the highest degree. Minister for that. I heard that I had missed her career as president, unfortunately I didn't get it, I was at a meeting out here, but I understand that there was a discussion about freedom of business, and I've heard this speech. I guess what this case was, that there was no freedom of business in the European Union, it was just a union, everybody knew it. Let me guess, it's pretty much the speech. Yes, the European Union is atoll alliance, mainly around agricultural products. It's the biggest category in the world, and I would have had to be told twice if a senator and a minister of the Independence Party were opposed to the fact that the country was laying toll on agriculture. In turn, in these 27 lands there is perfect business freedom. Not only that, it's often said that we have as a sovereign nation - I've heard former minister say it too - to use our equipment and make lots of vacation contracts. How do we use them? We've been using them, so Iceland is a party of 32 contracts. Three of us have made our own efforts alone, but all the other 29 people are made around the international community, such as the United States, U.S.A. EFTA. But what about the European Union, if we were there, at the freedom of business in the European Union, among the countries there? What has the European Union done with many countries? Fifty-five vacation contracts. And they're trying to convince people that they have no freedom of business. What kind of proverb is this and phrase? I say it again and again: it's an opportunity to be an ancient leader. Secretary of State said that they were primarily related to the Bgret and the freewill agreement, but they do not appear in the contract. Iceland's situation is still worse than British. It is not this free movement of people. We have not yet received any interest in the State Department, which we have not yet been given to offer certain fishing supplies in the marine future for continuing to have toll protection, and even higher and more in agriculture because the British wanted to import more agricultural products. It was said no, and on the contrary, a fishing road is offered. I'm telling you after today's discussions about foreign affairs that I'm afraid a combination of the government is an inhibitor of the fact that we are going through the necessary interests we need right now on the matter of security and defense and foreign affairs. The whole world is a different one today, but when the government's deal was made, that short - lived political agreement, which will only remove the European Union from the table without food. Then they allow themselves to do so when we are a team for 30 years at the European Union's inner market. The cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy are the EEA Convention and, on the other hand, the Defense and Security Act, NATO and the Defense Convention on the United States. And is it so that we should not measure our interests, so we try to figure out where they will best be paid for us in the years and decades ahead? The insults we hear and the inconsistencies of communications from the government and the government, when it comes to foreign and defense, are dangerous. He is particularly dangerous in these days when we need to discuss our safety and we need to use every means available to protect our country, including evaluating how we can become even more powerful within NATO, including evaluating how we can apply the defense agreement so that he will protect us all the way in which we will be protected in difficult times, and most important, whether our interests, our security, our freedom of business, and our defenses are not better off in the European Union, which is now taking more attention to himself in this area. Is it not better, then, once again, a respectable president, to sit at the table as we do in NATO and have yielded good results? [[The president calls.]] I definitely believe we should say the same thing when it comes to the European Union. We are to sit at the table and trust the people to take us on that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u130	Madam President. I present a report by the NATO Council of Iceland before 2021. At the Council of NATO in 2021, there was a top discussion on how to deal with continued geographic and ideological challenges from Russia. The Senators expressed concern about Russian military construction and tens of thousands of Russian soldiers on the border of Ukraine despite claims from Moscow that the military would be called home. Furthermore, the imprisonment of Navalní Nadalni, the leader of Russia's government opposition, and the deportation of Russia's Western diplomats from Russia to the tensions of international relations. Congress officials expressed concern about the growing oppression of the government and called for continued penalties unless Moscow's government reviewed its policies and abandoned human rights violations and shunning international commitments. The international security reviews received additional attention during the year and provided a report on the National Safety and Safety Committee of the NATO Council. It shows that NATO puts extra emphasis on the northern regions and has increased his demonstrations and increased military exercises in the area. Iceland Department participated in discussions about the matter and stressed the greater importance of northern lands, including the U.S. In view of the melts, China's great interest, and Russia's growing military presence. This has increased access to the northern routes, promoting the interest of non - northern countries in the region. In discussions, the importance of the role of NATO and the need for the Northern Community policy in the light of the development of international politics and the joint aim of Member States to maintain north-lands as low-volved areas. At the same time, there was talk of how political cooperation in the Atlantic Union could be strengthened by the signs of NATO 2030. In connection with this project, the Council agreed to conclude on the support of NATO's commitment to a powerful defense until 2030. Furthermore, the Council of NATO urged to update its core policy in the light of changing circumstances, where the baseline of democracy and its institutions was strongly emphasized. With an updated policy, new challenges, including the growing impacts of China and Russia, could be better handled as well as opportunities to strengthen the relationship between the Community and the European Union. The NATO also adopted this year's resolution, in which NATO is encouraged to establish a regional resistance centre within the Union, which can support the NATO and democratic foundations of the Community. The importance of the world's growing multilingual safety concerns would be clear, but its objective would be to stress and protect the common democratic value of the Community. During the year, a worldwide crowning epidemic set its mark on the NATO program, and most of the meetings and conferences were held at telecommunications. Furthermore, the NATO Council served as a ground for a debate over the pandemic and the impact it had on the topic field of the council. The economic consequences of a Korean virus epidemic were considered as one of the most important uncertainty factors in the years to come. It was then clear that government funds would be a major challenge to Member States and it would be important to protect donations for security and protection. There was also a debate over technological advances and biological weapons crisis following a pandemic, but it has demonstrated global weakness in terms of biological threats and attacks. Other major issues under consideration at the Council of NATO in 2021 include the elimination of NATO troops from Afghanistan, economic and political challenges in Beltland, and discussions of the Iran nuclear program, and communication between the country with neighboring states. China's military structure was also discussed, as well as its influence on NATO member countries, international weapons monitoring and NATO's role in security in space. Furthermore, the NATO Council published 15 case reports during the year on the NATO website, www.nato-pa.int. General for the NATO Council. NATO is an Council of Congress, which has been the site of the Council members of NATO for security and protection. In recent years, the number of Member States and the addition of the NATO Council has increased rapidly and has been expanded in accordance with the changes in countries that previously belonged to the Soviet Union and in countries of central and Eastern Europe. Nine democracies from a group of former Communist states are now being added to the council (increased neutral European states, four states, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland), which means that they can participate in activities and discussions at the council. The Council's work is increasingly focused on the overall security of Europe, economic and political problems in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and on the global security system. The 1949 Atlantic Convention did not expect a controversy agreement, but over time it grew to believe that there was a need for organized cooperation with the National Parliaments in the matter of NATO and in support of the coalition. The Parliament does not have a formal position within the Community, but gradually it has reached the close and active cooperation of its institutions. The main role of the Parliament is to promote solidarity and meet national conventions in the area of safety and protection. The Senate gathers twice a year, to spring meetings and annual meetings in the fall. The activities of the Parliament are largely carried out on five topic committees, political committees, Defense and Security Committee, the Economic Committee, the Scientific Committee and the Technologies Committee, and the National Security Committee. These are the main topics of discussion, of contemporary issues that arise in their field of work, and of reporting on these reports. The nominees are usually presented in the form of proposals, declarations, or assumptions approved by the committee, and the council later votes. References are directed to the North Atlantic Council, which has the highest decision force in NATO, and are encouraged to take certain measures. However, the views of the Council are directed to the governments of the Member States. Although the council is independent of NATO, its dealings with the alliance have gradually become more permanent. Formal contact includes, firstly, formal responses to the Council's proposals from the Commission of the Community on behalf of the Northern Atlantic Council. Second, the secretary - general of the Union will address at the spring meetings and annual meetings of the NATO Council and respond to council inquiry. Third, the National Council and the Council of the North Atlantic meet each year for a meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels. Finally, the joint meeting of the three committees of the NATO Council of Brussels in February of February will be called each month to facilitate communication with the employees and officials of NATO, SHAPE, in English Supreme Headquarers Allied Powers in Europe at the highest base in Europe) and the European Union. The NATO Council consists of 269 members of the 30 Member States. The largest commission in the United States is with 36 members of Congress, of which Iceland is among the smallest of three members. A total of 91 members of the 11 additional member states of the NATO Council and participate in committee meetings, except for committee meetings and meetings, but do not have the right to vote. Yet, they have the right to make adjustments. In the summer of last year's work. Until the total election of September 25, the following major members of the Iceland Department were appointed: President Nick Friedert Friðbertsson, Congress of the Independence Party, Vice President Gynchótir K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, General Reconnaissance, and Willum Þór Þórsson, the Council of the Agency. The secretary of Iceland was Arna Gör Bang, an international secretary. In three years of office, the Friðbertsson of the National Institutes of Science and Technologies, elected author of the Commission for the next two years. New Iceland department was December 1st, following the election. Chief of staff are Njáll of Trausti, Chairman of Friðert Friðbertsson, members of the Independence Party, Vice President Ingi In Jónsson, Pierta's Congress, and Stefánsson Wriggsson, United States Congress. Found the NATO council last year. In the usual year, the NATO council gathers to meet twice a year. At a so-called February meeting, the Management Board conducts a meeting with the Directors of NATO and the Council of the North Atlantic. These two meetings are the spring meeting in May and a annual meeting in October or November. Then, too, the February meeting will be held and the Management Board will arrange for a meeting with the Council of Directors of NATO and the Council of the North Athletes, as well as a meeting of the Parliament's Commission in March or April. Finally, committees and members of the council regularly hold seminars and meetings between meetings. Over the past year, committees insisted mainly on telecommunications because of the epidemic's limit to travel. In addition, representatives of Iceland attended various telecommunications organized during the year on the issues of the NATO Council. In 2021, Iceland's department participated in a spring meeting in May. The director also participated in a February meeting and meeting of the Commission in March and a annual meeting in October. It's such a short version of the report. I encourage members and others to read and study the issues, and there are also some material and reports relating to the activities of the NATO Council and these 15 reports that can be found on the NATO website that was approved last year. Under that report, Vice President Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Friðbertsson Stefán Stefánsson are published. You can also find accounts of meetings, significant accurate accounts, of the World Council Web site, under the NATO, and again conclusions adopted at the council during the last year, which were in the last seven, and are also in Icelandic under the NATO on the World Assembly. I've had enough work to do, but I don't think I'm going anywhere - we've had a lot of discussions about these issues today that are related to President NATO, so I think there's enough of this discussion on my part today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u131	President. I didn't think the NATO report would just be given here but not discussed, but it's probably because we've been discussing this huge case all day in the international context. But I'm here to go out for a big one in the ASS report. At this point, I find it appropriate to reflect on what SE is. The European Safety and Cooperation Agency or ESE operates on the basis of the Helsinki sandwich or the Helsinki Final Act, as it is called in English, from 1975. With the Helsinki finalisation, Member States committed themselves to improve cooperation, respect their borders, and ensure human rights of their citizens. However, the Helsinki valve is not a legal covenant, since it is not legally established by the legislatures in the countries under which heads of state wrote it. It makes a measure of cooperation, but it is clear that we have failed to fulfill the conditions or commitments associated with that covenant at the time. However, the fact that there is no legal obligation in the country may be better is the contrast between the rest of the international institutions. The aim of ESE is to promote peace, security, democracy, and cooperation in its territory, protecting respect for human rights and principles of the legal state. It was in 1990 that a so-called Paris treaty was adopted, other than the one we may refer to in everyday speech, which was agreed that within the ESE Council, the ASE Parliament would be active where a 57 National Assembly in Europe, North America, and Central Asia would appoint its representatives. These are 323 agents, of which 3 are the three of whom we are the three of us who are writing this report. I'm the head of Iceland, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, vice president, and Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson. But I was also in the SE Parliament's Iceland Department during the last term. At that time Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was chairman, and with us was Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. I'm gonna go out for a big one, but it's tradition at the SE Council that there are three meetings a year, and SE, as an international and big institution, had a problem adjusting to Covid. The Council's regulations made it very clear that there would be a vote for a matter in person, but this could not be done according to the situation in the time of Covid. I'd like to now that you did well, and I think there were even more things going on in the field of OSE in Covid's time because there were more meetings and then more specific issues. Then it was done through telecommunications equipment. I feel that international activity can be done well through telecommunications equipment. I'm going to say, though, that I don't feel that such a thing can be a substitute for meeting people in person, but the job can be still powerful and clearly save in both the money and the less in the carbon tracks, when it is possible to use telecommunications when the other is not available. Also, it's been done considerably by the SE conference holding meetings that are in such a way that the heads of the National Leagues, or directors of the Commission as it is called, attending a meeting while other representatives are at telecommunications, such as hybrid, in order to have some limits in the size of the meetings during the much limitary period of the past few years. I was chairman of the National Department at our summer meeting, where Senator Margrét Setterfield, a Swedish senator, was president of the United States, and she then named me as a special spokesman of the Arctic. So I've been in charge for a few months, but then the SE works as well as having three acting constant committees, there's also a considerable number of spokes of certain groups of subjects that then deliver reports and their role is to call attention to their affairs and keep their discussion at the SE scene. As a result, it was a pleasure to be given the assignment of keeping track of northern discussions in SE. It's a group of paintings that haven't had much discussion yet. This may have been more on climate, human rights, and the focus may have been more in Eastern Europe, Central Asia and elsewhere, perhaps not quite in the Arctic. I had attended previous annual meetings with a change in wording in our environmental conclusions that had specifically been mentioned in the north. It will be even more challenging to reflect on the Arctic discussions that will soon take place in the area of ESE, where we will see what is happening in the world. Russia, for example, is one of the states that cross - bordered the North Pole. I was hoping to be able to cooperate well with a representative in all the Arctic countries in my work, have already held one telecommunication, and received representatives of all the Arctic countries, but not everyone spoke up, and the Russian did not. It was two or three weeks before the invasion. As I said before, unfortunately, it has come to this point that SE has not been reached, and it was very special to be at the last OSE meeting out in Vienna, where Russia, of course, is part of SE, then that night had a full attack on Ukraine, which is also part of the SE. The Russian delegates were at a telecommunication, the Ukrainian was there, describing this disaster and the tremendous persistence in the Ukrainian nation and how he and his fellow council would fight and be armed with senators. It was heartbreaking for listening, but it is, of course, that you have found this tension more extreme, and in the field of ESE, there has been a very intense debate about the situation in the Crimea and its invasion, the invasion of Georgia, and such as Nagnorno-Karabak, and other areas that have been under that discussion. At our last summer meeting, which was held in a very special way, I represented Iceland and others were present through telecommunications. By then it was impossible to vote for traditional conclusions because the rules assume that this is done by hand, but changes were made to be made so that the president of the council could be chosen and a key subject could be presented. There, urgent issues and conclusions were agreed on. First, there was an increase in racial prejudice in the ASE region, one about the actions of the Lutheran government against government opposition and the third of the Russian military forces on the border between Ukraine and the occupied areas. So that was in July last year, at the beginning of July 2021. The Russians and WhiteRuss strongly objected to conclusions. I'm going to pull down a little bit - I'm not reading this report, it's available, and members and others can study it. But just so we could put ourselves in on how the speech of this party was at this meeting then the Russians, for example. The fact that Croby was just a part of Russia, and you've heard many times how they protect it and how they describe the situation in the Crimea in a completely different way than the Ukraine, who attend the same meeting. Sometimes you wonder if people are discussing the same thing when talking about these matters, since the viewpoints are so overwhelmingly different. There's just no whole bridge between here. However, they kept saying that the Monsters were part of Russia and that the military force in Russia was their national issue, so they had nothing to do with us. The Russians urged the SE to form a platform of conversation and solidarity rather than divisions. The head of the White Russian National League protested the arrival of international politicians after the forced landing of passengers in Minsk for May. The representative said that it was unacceptable to discuss delicate political issues in one Member State when representatives of the State could not participate in the discussion unless using telecommunications. He said: Freedom of opinion and freedom of expression have turned into street democracy and rioting in White Russia and noted that the Dutch government used Protestants through large protests against the spread of Covid-19 in that country at the beginning of the year. It is safe to say that this message stirred the anger of Dutch agents and also other representatives of the SE Council -- now I am not going to defend the way some protest was done in the Netherlands, but to compare it two together and to put it together that an equation does not match. After Lúkasjenkó just stole the President's chair in the 2020 elections, there was a huge protest in White Russia that has rarely been greater. There are thousands of people in a prison in White Russia, the press and the government opposers, who have not been given any kind of trial. Even if a trial has been held, it has been closed, not in harmony with all that we believe is normal and is part of international law. On one hand, representatives from Russia spoke about what they think is the national affairs of Russia, when discussing the Crimea, and on the other, representatives from White Russia, where the president just ordered a passenger jet flying over the airspace to turn around and land in Minsk. Two passengers of that jet were pulled out and imprisoned, and as far as I know, they are still in prison. This is the reality in these lands, and it is so far from us, but it is made tangiblely manifest in what is happening today and underscores the importance of always upholding human rights and international law. Haldin was a good speaker of the political and security committee. He's a Lithuanian. As I've said here before today, it's interesting to listen to our partner in these three little Baltic countries when they talk about security. I reiterate: It was July last year, and he was urging us to face the unexpected challenge of that time - as well as to remind us of our security issues. He was sorry that there was a threat to security in the SE region through military, military, national and human rights violations. The fighting in Ukraine, Georgia, Nagnorno-Kraarbak, or Transistria could not have solved, as well as the multi-item and network attacks are growing more and more. International cooperation would be in turmoil, and members of Congress would need to shoulder their responsibilities and protect the value of ESE. When you read it, it's certainly a good reminder. At the same time, we turned on our phone and found that 71 children have been killed in a Russian attack on Ukraine. As a result, it is clear that the beautiful and important goals set out by the SE and the SE and the SE council have all the same tried to maintain - unfortunately, we are just very far away from those goals. But after being so negative, I'm still going to say that I don't believe that it means anything but to continue. I'd like to reiterate that I, as a representative of the SE council, address and discuss human rights, discuss the importance of international law. I urge all of us when we are in the foreign field to always use the opportunity to address matters that are of utmost importance in order to maintain peace, i.e. That international law is respected and human rights and equality are always respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-10-50.u132	Madam President. On the roof. 613 will be provided for the annual report of the International Parliament, and in short, I will give a presentation on the main issues of focus within the Union in the past year. A New Year Report by the U.S.A. So I'll only tap on a large one, but refer to the otherwise recommended report. Member of the IPU, a foreign abbreviation for the International Assembly, ended in 2021 178 but added to the 13 Regional Parliamentary Association. The aim of the Union is to promote communication between members from all parts of the world on international issues, to promote the peace and cooperation of nations, and to support democracy and the terms of the council. Emphasis is placed on protecting human rights as a fundamental element of democracy and Congress. That's when the IPU is working to strengthen the Congress and assist with the development of democracies within them. The Union supports the activities of the United Nations and cooperates extensively with its institutions. The relationship holds two Parliaments a year, as well as international conferences and seminars, most often about issues that are at the top of the United Nations organization each time and are often associated with a convention of the United Nations. Of the many issues discussed at the International Assembly in 2021, I would like to highlight a few points, but they are related to all the objectives of the Union that are working to promote peace and cooperation among nations and to trust in democracy and the terms of a representative council. In 2021, the greatest discussion of the challenges given to the pandemic of crown virus created the world councils. The IPU autumn Parliament agreed on how to use international conventions to match the distribution of vaccines in the battle against Covid-19. It emphasized the need for the international community to provide timely, reasonable, and practical access to safe and acceptable vaccines. It was then proposed that extensive vaccinations against Covid-19 will contribute to the global population. Further, the discussions made clear the difference between Africa and the rest of the world in the international distribution of vaccines. The year also included a meeting of women discussing the effect of Covid-19 on equality and how to ensure equality of the sexes during a pandemic season. Furthermore, the IPU published instructions on how to ensure that government interference at the time of Covid-19 will take into account equality issues and will not violate human rights. At the same time, two - minute videos were prepared that presented how Congress and Congress would have reacted to the worldwide epidemic. There was then a debate on the role of Congress in overcoming pandemics, and members of Congress agreed that Covid-19 demonstrated that IPU has the ability and ability to adapt to new challenges and unexpected circumstances. The terms of the day for democracy and the ways to overcome division in communities were also in focus and adopted an IPU declaration in which the key points of the discussion were presented. In a discussion about the declaration, the President IPU said that during the last two years there was a dangerous setback in connection with the joint commitment of the international community to human rights and democracy. Farbar's coups and direct attacks on the councils have taken place, including of Sudan, Myanmar, Afghanistan. The International Society needs to stick together and insists that political rules be viewed. Then he stressed the importance of IPU's work in defending the democracy and helping Member States to respect democratic governance. At the Fall Summit of IPU, a new policy was adopted for the year 2022 Guy26. The course of action is aimed at achieving a relationship's goals and meeting the future international challenges. Special attention is given to democracy, human rights, climate change and support in the implementation of the Paris Convention. At the same time, IPU in cooperation with WHO or WHO and the United Nations has been exposed to a number of ablations on the pandemic and its impact on various issues. Its influence, its action, and its development have been debated by members of the Parliament and experts. Then the pandemic, with its strict limit of travel, has opened up the possibility of members of Congress to make greater use of telecommunications to the future. Furthermore, members of the Member States agreed that the battle against the epidemic would shed light on the importance of even greater solidarity and international cooperation. President. Other major issues under discussion on IPU meetings in 2021 include regional policies to promote peace and security, with emphasis on climate change and adaptation. The relationship on integrating digital technology then concluded that the economy can reach the developing objectives of the United Nations and international legislation to combat the sexual abuse of children on the Internet. Finally, there is the important work of the Union in promoting democracy, but many of its members are not democratically elected, and some do not carry out their own legal work. As an example of such activity in 2021, there are regional seminars on the UN worldwide goals and the effects of a pandemic of Covid-19 on its introduction. Furthermore, the International Parliamentary Union publishes handbooks and reports for members of the Parliament to help them influence different localities. This year there was also published a manual in cooperation with UN Women on sexual legislation and a report on sexual harassment and violence against women in the African Congress. Madam President. I'd like to state that much emphasis is placed on the IPU work of human rights and equality. In this context, I would like to mention a special committee of members of Congress who play a vital role in the relationship and provide a major report for each assembly. On the basis of the report, the Council agrees with various conclusions about violations of human rights against members of Congress. The committee performs a great deal of work between councils in which it reviews members of Congress on which human rights have been violated, whether incarcerated, threats, beatings, missing persons, or death. Then I'd like to mention the high priority the International Parliament Society places on strengthening the political part of women by conferences, meetings, manuals, and reports, as well as in some formal and informal ways. At the same time, the annual summary of women's status in the world's Congress has been made pay attention and is often referred to in discussions and in the media. At that time, Norwegian cooperation is very strong within the IPU and is generally highly active in the work of the EU. This year, 2022. Clearly, a wide range of projects wait for IPU in 2022, which includes discussing the challenges of the season for democracy and the battle against climate change. As mentioned earlier, I refer to the committee's meetings in the accompanying report of the above recommendations and refer to it for further information on the work of the Committee. I'd like to finally thank Icelanders for their cooperation in this important field and then review my coverage of the EU IPU report for 2021.
