ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u1	Despite 4 mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Senate recommends. Do they want a vote on this proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u3	A decision on the duration of a meeting will be followed by the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u4	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. Dearest nation. The person standing here has read the opinion of the administrative and surveillance committee on the work of the National Guard. Then I thought of the saying, "I'm pretty close to capable of speaking, but the experienced one knows better. " I have been in my own business for over 40 years, and I like to go abroad, and I have ideas about what I want to do. I've been in the restaurant business, Hotel City and other big companies I've been doing, and whenever I do something new, I go abroad with those who are supposed to conduct and show them what I'm thinking, so they know what I'm talking about. I was thinking about this report and about the field service. Devices, equipment, machines, and equipment, and all that the National Guard has cost hundreds of millions, even billions, and I would not have felt that it would have been a crazy idea that at the end of the summer vacation, perhaps on vacations, they'd go on a trip to the DL and learn about their own business and even that the Ministers would usually go to the helicopter, get on the plane, just to know what it's all about when they're making decisions about what to buy and what to do about what to do with the quality of life. It's just a big deal to have experience from your own hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u5	Madam President. The next year's real estate evaluation was published yesterday, and when they saw it rise by a dozen percent, they were shocked. For some, it may be happy to see the value of their possessions rise from year to year, but for people in less positions, young people who are rented, or who have just bought their first property, it is a source of anxiety. A higher real - estate evaluation will make it even more difficult for young people to buy property. When you're renting and perhaps paying half of your rent every month, it's no joke to collect for the first pay that gets bigger every year. This would be less a problem if there were a healthy tenet than governments would not be interested in helping tenants out of this cycle. With a higher real estate estimate also the rates of real estate increase, and for those of us who are renting, it just means one thing: higher rent, and, of course, the landlords will raise the rent according to higher fees. The higher rent means higher expenses, which makes it even less likely that we will be able to collect for payment. Those of my peers who were able to buy their first apartment in the epidemic are many of them in no better position. They owed themselves up to the top with good loans, but the growth in management interest and pay backs as well. They now live with huge loans and payments that they find hard to live up to, an enormous burden for people in poor financial standing, not just for young people. I'm glad that many rural societies have already announced that they will reduce real estate costs, thus moving closer to Reykjavík, which has been with the lowest appeal for years, but I hope that the city of Reykjavík will take on measures similar to those of the other rural communities. I also hope that the situation that has come up will be awakened by the government, and they will finally start putting themselves in earnest for a better and healthier housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u6	President. As famously noted, refugees who have been in the country for some time now have to move away from the country. Recently, the National Institutes of Development sent a petition to the U.S. Marshal's Office to determine whether the group of people who refer to the country is disabled. It is requested that there be multiple dissociation, the nature of disability, and the presence of individuals on their own or accompanied by family and/or children, including where to refer. The Pillar Department referred to the National Institute of Iceland, which answered in a way that the information of this kind was not recorded in a way in the U.S. National Intelligence System that statistical information could be summarised there. Thus, neither the U.S. Marshal's Department nor the Foreign Institute could explain whether among the refugees who are confronted with disfellowshipping are disabled. Not knowing whether disabled persons are among them, how many are, what the nature of their disability is, and whether they are accompanied by others or not, is completely unacceptable. Then they give reasons for doubt that the disabled who are expelled will have an appropriate adjustment in the process, such as the obligation to provide according to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. By 31st. The Treaty is at the top of the Treaty to collect statistics on the status of disabled persons, but it commands that Member States should collect relevant information, including Statistics and research data, enabling them to enforce the contract. The Member States shall guarantee the sharing of the above-mentioned statistical information and ensure it is available to disabled people and others. I repeat: Neither the U.S. Marshal or Foreign Institute could provide an answer to whether among the refugees facing expulsion is disabled. As a result, all talk that human feelings are guided by these oustings is like many other things coming from this government, empty talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u7	A respectable president. Last night, the answer came to the highest. Prime Minister to the written request for her opinion of a suitable financial minister to the sale of Iceland Bank and to see if there would have been a reason for the minister of finance to take part in that particular case. Of course, we all know the discussion; critical that Dad was a minister of finance among the more than 200 who offered to buy a closed outlet. The decision put a minister of finance in the position of approval for the State, where his father was among the offers. The decision also placed a minister of finance in a position to sign a contract where his father was among the buyers. The minister of this matter has said that he never considered himself appropriate, did not need to do so. No answer, however, was found on why a minister of finance viewed him as an exception to administrative laws in this matter. Answers to the highest. The prime minister of a written inquiry received yesterday is not directly sparked by trust in the minister of finance, the minister of finance, who sits in her own government. Does not the prime minister think that a financial minister was qualified for the sale? Does she not feel confident about determining whether the minister qualified for more than 50 billion Kingdom sales? Sometimes the biggest news is in what is not said, what is not expressed, but what is not said. The prime minister cannot answer a direct question about the provincial position of the Independence Party in this trade. It says and answered so that a minister must be appreciated himself; only he himself must answer whether he was qualified. That was the answer, and it is now all trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u8	A respectable president. By May ten years had passed since the eastern bridge was formed. The eastern bridge is an institution that does not fit in the standard definition of institutions or their roles. She is the first organization of her kind here and is still, in many respects, unique after the ten years. The Agency's task is to build bridges between citizens, industry and management and to promote any cooperation that promotes the Eastern world. The eastern bridge was created by the fusion of Knowledge Network, Development Society, Culture Council, Marketing Office and the Union Society's Office in the East. There are over 30 founders. It has not always been simple to go unconventional in the administration. In spite of government policy and much pressure from governments to break down silos and work across the Offices and the Ministry of Governments, it may be difficult to persuade government officials to cooperate with that ideologies. Still, the birthday boy has come to his senses and has done a good job. Projects include: the services of long-term education and research, job development and marketing. The service is aimed at promoting the positive development of human life and employment in the East. The eastern bridge has seven work stations, and more than 20 employees, and the work has been built all along by distant and scattered work stations, long before Covid. So it was a joy to have a birthday celebration confirmed by a university, industrial, and innovation minister that, from the coming autumn, it will be possible to pursue a BS study in computer science in the East, and preparation for further technical studies will continue. These are eastern Bridge, University of Reykjavík, and University of Akureyri. Perhaps changes in the order of recruitment at Iceland's Management Board have begun to submit a new approach to the administrative board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u9	A respectable president. I want to come up here and discuss only a housing position. The secretary of wood and housing ordered a team of workers to reform the housing market, which recently gave proposals to the minister. There are 28 suggestions in seven different languages. It can be emphasized by increasing structure, improved housing support, and improved legal status and the safety of tenants. Of course, this is just a document, and some would say that it was another piece of paper and another report, but it still gives us an important perspective. It gives us space and opportunity to work on practical plans that we can so, both countries and rural groups, follow up with very progressive measures. This is how it is, and it is made clear in this service report that we need to build. We need to build more. Today, some 4,500 apartments are missing at the market, plus 35,000 apartments in the next ten years. It is a pleasure that the European Union of Iceland is about to work a frame deal that will ensure the construction of 4,000 apartments for the next five years and then 3,500 apartments for the next five years. Of course, in the capital area, most of us are affected, and each member of this area needs to raise a cast of rock and begin a massive building of living quarters for all groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u10	Madam President. By dawn, it was the best. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir in an interview with the News magazine on the foreign bill of the government. She said, with President's permission: But these things always try, that's just the way it is. Also because in the foreign languages, the discussion is so often about unique matters while there has been a lack of discussion about where to go. Here's the top turn. Prime Minister, everything on his head. This government, on four occasions, has provided a bill for a change in the laws of foreigners that have the sole objective of restricting the rights of refugees, facilitate and speed up expulsion. The course of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and her government, of course, is reflected in what they are running through a government in these matters. In each of the four times that they have presented this explained policy, there has been a great debate in both the council, which has discussed government policy for over 13 hours, and in the community all, where the government has been courted to throw this bill straight into the junkyard. Second, the highest turn. Of course, a minister is at the head because the prime minister who makes the comment that the discussion is so often about unique matters rather than the whole group policy, knows that it is perfectly clear that the objective of the foreign bill is simply to choke the discussion and protest on these unique matters that it makes a comment about being discussed. The bill, of course, says that gold guarantees that refugees would not be connected with the inhabitants of this country by allowing the National Institute of Foreign England to show off all refugees who have been protected, e.g. correspondent in Greece, straight out of the country before anyone in this country has an opportunity to get to know them. President. The policy is clear: This government is hostile people on the run. That proves unique matters, but also the four-fold attempts by Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, her government, to eliminate the small possibility that these refugees may have for shelter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u11	A respectable president. My resolution to a review of the state of state-of-the-continental environment of marine farms, in view of the payment of fish farms, lies within the water. The Parliament's professional board. It simply turns to the fact that this review includes a full analysis of the currency of the state and rural society of fish farms and proposals to improve as clear sources to take charge of the necessary services of the state and rural society of marine farms. KPMG gathered during the winter for the European Community of the marine market analysis of fishing and fish farms. It shows that these articles provide considerable income for the nation's population. The analysis also shows that the exchange of income between the state and rural unions is significantly reduced and confined to the rural areas. The share of rural society in the total fishing industry and fish farming has been 29% between 2016 and 2020. The export value of farming was increased by 29% between the years, and its relevance to 70% of the export value of fuel products was increased by the past year. Now the export of farmed salmon yields the second most valuables of all the fish exported from the country. In Western Europe, rural society is the source of growth, and this growth requires a large buildup of infrastructure. A respectable president. Farmers carry the heat and weight of infrastructure and therefore they require a larger share of the remuneration of rural society. The review of the Western Institute for Economic Organization, now available to the council, shows the importance of the accelerated development of the built-in fish farm members and the sharing of fish farming partners with fish farms at an increased level of 80% of the fund's income. It's important to get to the top. Food Ministers are developing government policies to identify national benefits in fish farming as well as the benefits of fish farming. The government's policies, then, require a special consideration of fish farming and the exchange of pay. It is important that food administrator has already set in motion the country's fishing policy, and this change also contains the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u12	Madam President. We live in a society that is shaped by centuries of tradition in education and culture that is rooted in Christian attitudes toward individuals and society. It is important that this view be heard at the Council. As a nation, we stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christianity. Icelandic society and Christian custom and values are still in common. In the legislation of the U.S. National Code, October 2012, the majority of the nation's population, or 51%, agreed on a national church in a constitution. Governments are obliged to support and protect the State Church. This is in the constitution. I want to use this opportunity to thank the prime minister especially for her support of the State Church in word and deed. Under the leadership of the prime minister, there has been a renewed church meeting of the state and church that has proved to be a stable sponsor and has played a key role in creating financial independence and security. Madam President. How sad and, in effect, it is to see that the late prime minister has been subjected to the slander of a parish priest on the decision of non - Israelite authorities! For example, the dedicated servant of the National Church can easily weigh that of Iceland's prime minister. A prominent local church pastor, who has been rebuked by Iceland's bishop, appeared to be like others who let themselves be concerned about the legal handling of the case, approved by the General Assembly. Icelandic advisors, including government ministers, have no legal authority to deviate from the results of independent institutions that have worked out according to their requirements for just lawsuits and legal security. We have a legitimate order. [[The president calls.]] Iceland is a state of justice, but not a state of disorder and lawlessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u13	A respectable president. It was a special joy for tourism in the North, when the first jet of Nice Air, Bars, landed at the Akureyri Airport on Monday and the company will fly her virgin flight to Copenhagen later this week. At that time, it was as good to hear that the stewardess society has reached a good deal with the airline for both flight attendants and servants. This is a completely new facility for tourism in the northern part of the country, and the first indicators for continuing development in the northern part of the country as a result of the pandemic. It is of utmost importance if we want to ensure a sustainable tourism in Iceland that we live under it on a full night's basis, that there are people on the move as well as on the fly when the days are short as snow and everything as when the sun shines all night long. It is also vital that we contribute to the worldwide construction of the land. International flight into Akureyri is part of it and will contribute to the fair distribution of tourists, and I think the next I am sure they will increase in previously few places. There is a further distribution of tourists in increasing jobs where they are needed, but in many parts of the country, there is a lack of job construction in recent decades. Then it will be noted that services for tourists are increasing in service to the local people and can apply from longer periods of store opening to more variety of recreation. In this context, I must also say that we must see to that, for example. that the diamond ring is the largest part of the year ends a large part of attracting tourists. President. I'm celebrating this investment in tourism in the country and I think it's a big opportunity for land and nation. Then I think we're both on North and Eastern soil, with respect to our diversity and services. However, it is important to support the whole - wound development of tourism in the district and also to remind me that the Lál Positioning Airport is important there. The district contains some of the country's major ski areas, which I believe will reduce the remains of foreign tourists to an even greater extent. Then there are countless other forms of recreation, close to nature, and a wide variety of entertainment all over the North and East. [[The president calls.]] Thus, we look forward to the future in favor of the Icelandic social society, and there has been a lot of optimism for future members of the society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u14	Madam President. I come up here to bring the attention of the United States Congress to a case that I and the rest of the Parliament's reveries, together with all members of the Group of Groups and Pirata, made it right. It suggests that the General contends with the Minister of Justice to ensure that agencies under the Ministry do not receive international protection to Greece, Italy, or Hungary regardless of whether or not the individual has already received international protection. The reason for this is very simple and understandable. We do not want the United States to send people into unannounced and even horrible conditions in these lands, for it is inhuman and simply ugly to do so. In fact, this is supported by Icelandic law, which forbids dismissing or rerouting where their life or freedom may be put at risk. Last week, the same council, along with the people's Shockers, made a second suggestion that particularly turned to the group that applied for protection during the epidemic in an attempt to stop unprecedented mass abuse. It is long time for Iceland, and indeed many other countries of Europe, including the North countries, to give up their responsibility for the world's refugee problems, to be given up to countries that have problems because of their geographic conditions, but have no authority or ability to handle alone. I repeat what I have previously said in this public address: We who are sitting in this room and having children, siblings, parents, and friends need to ask ourselves, " Would I want to be sent to my people in an unacceptable situation? ' Would we personally want our children to be torn out of a safe environment and sent to an environment where the insecurity is complete and hardly a home? No, we would not, and that is exactly why we should not send other people into this situation. It is extremely sad, to put it this way, that the three government groups are going to accept their bill, which runs contrary to this simple standard that we should all adopt.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u15	V.E.G. President. The majority of the staff are short on construction and construction projects in this country. This is shown in the new Hague of the Lands Bank. The head of the Society, an industrial partner, says that there is a need for a campaign in the education system to educate in industry. Since 2019 there have been an average of 6.4% of construction vacancies, some 1,000 jobs. The Hagsjá National Bank reports that the article separates from other activities in that there were few and considerable numbers missing throughout the period. There is a great shortage of apartments all over the country and especially lack housing in the capital area. A prime minister's group suggested days to meet demand would have to build some 3,000 to4,000 apartments per year for the next ten years. Hilmar Harðarson, chairman of the UN, says that waiting classes are in the industry when highly educated traders are in need. Last year there were approximately 700 students who couldn't get into trade school. Often, it is men who are halfhearted but who do not get inside the schools. There's always talk of promoting industry and employment, but little happens. V.E.G. President. During the last term, the Ministry of Education was talking about a high level of attendance at industrial and technical students being in progress at the Ministry. Yet, this is the situation: 700 fields cannot enter industrial education when industrialists are missing all over the country. V.E.G. President. It is not likely to be effective when the Minister's and government's operations packages are only bandages, decorated with beautiful paper but no content.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u16	A respectable president. Yesterday, the answer to my inquiry to the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the basis of who used the entire budget from 2020 was published, but the budget was extended by the end of the year. This includes tax discounting on performance and maintenance of housing. The answer says that the state's budget was 15 billion dollars. Because of everyone working, and one third has run into construction companies. Keep in mind that the main reasons for this strategy were to increase the distance of ordinary people to attack projects and prevent black employment. I didn't realize, sir, that a respectable president would have to stop a black payment from building companies. There's a lot of corporate cover money between the two companies that justify five billion dollars. A tax rate? Building operations are one of the few sectores in which there was an expansion of business during a pandemic period that was the product of this article in the period of the best of the century. This is an amazing priority for the expansion of capital at delicate times. In response to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, you can also find an analysis of individuals who used the resources according to income support. In some cases, communities also apply for individual resources, but distribution is not possible. However, a group of individuals found that 54% of the taxes went to the top of 10 percent and 84% of the individuals in the top 30 percent of the income ladder. This is a familiar theme, a respectable president, and comparable to the use of another tax compliment. Half the tax rate due to the payment of special savings on mortgages has also fallen to the top 10% in the country. This trend is not over. If Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government succeeds, the income of the state's funds will become a share of domestic product that will be the lowest in the century after tax reductions in the past 50 billion dollars. From the state fund's income foundation. The impact of this policy on the welfare system does not necessarily depend on the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u17	A respectable president. Last Monday asked me what. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir. Whether he would employ himself for a variety of business practices in providing health care for the whole country. A health minister's response was that the management of independent health care could be considered an option, specifically name Southnesin. I'd like to allow myself to welcome this attitude of the minister of this matter. Throughout history, Southnesia's health - care organization has been coping with serious problems for years, including some of them. Because of design problems and financial deficiency, where financial resources have not been in any way consistent with the population growth in the area. This has even been true. so that thousands of people choose to accept service to their own private health care in the capital area, which once again puts extra strain on them. With a new funding model for health care agencies in the country, it is time to authorize the operating of independent health care clinics, as has been done in the capital area for years. If health care needs to be solved with such a warrant can be solved, much can be done. People in the country should not have to travel long distances just to visit a family doctor, and I doubt that people in the capital area would pass them over. Having access to basic health care is a matter of justice for which the settlements should enjoy just as the capital area. Therefore, a statement made by health - care minister that it might be wise to provide health care on the Southnes will mark a turning point in my mind, and I would like to encourage the health minister to continue to do good works. Working on such a case will not stand on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u18	A respectable president. It is gross financial violence that taxes and reduce pension income incomes and elderly people in the social security system by 75 to 7100%. Holding in 20,000-25,000 bucks. per 100,000 K. Or even nothing is not just a gross tax system and a poor one but a clean, intelligent source of property. Government by government over the last few decades has built up this ridiculous, insane system and have worked hard to maintain it. It is also making matters worse and a betrayal of promises for elections to change this gross recording of property on the legal funds of the elderly and the sick. Cutting the Social Security Department after the first 20,000 bucks. It is financial violence that is the worst in dealing with those to whom it should least be done, i.e. Payers, and women come out the worst. It's all turned upside down for the government in this freak-ass butt-hole mess that the social security system has become. A tragic system on which governments over the last few decades have established and maintained and deliberately made it so complex and stupid that ordinary people cannot calculate the chain of declines. This means, in English, that the worst of them are put directly in very poor condition and then, at the same time, when the saying of grapples is made on the common resource of the nation, paying little or nothing in the cost of the superheated resources. They are not taken in a decrease or a chain effect of tens of millions of dollars. Would these people agree to pay 75% of their profits in paying taxes to the State? No. At the same time, though, the most brutal abuse is binding on the social security system in the government. Their injustice is bad, but worse is so - called justice, justice just before elections, and empty promises that it is now their time. Everything goes exactly the same way: Money flows right into the pockets of rich people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u19	Madam President. This case was called in between the 2nd and 3rd. of the Commission for the discussion and comments made by the Law Committee of the Legal Society. by it. The point is that GRECO's independence, impartiality, and transparency should be unequivocal. I mentioned yesterday that worth looking at things better, carrying under GRECO, and discussing more with the Legal Committee, for example, the length of the order that varies from the source, such as from the Supreme Court, that the Supreme Court is to mention in court and in other matters. So it's good that the committee is taking the case back in. I think it's important to ask GRECO, ask GRECO for advice. [[The president calls.]] Drain time is on the move, and I think it's better if we do this carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u20	Madam President. I'm glad to take the matter back to the welfare committee, and I will sit with you in the articles of the bill that need further consideration. It is the articles that have the obligation to command this social order. I think there's good reason to look at that aspect of the bill better precisely because of the comments that have been made from GRECO.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u21	A respectable president. Last night I spoke to the Committee on Social Affairs. Like a snooze. I appreciate the discussion by members of the council here, so it is important that the matter be considered in the welfare committee between 2 and 3. where there is a greater need to explain the reasons behind the order of judgment, as it is suggested. So I suggest the matter goes back to the welfare committee here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u22	A respectable president. I'm on the committee's opinion on this case, but I'll be on the yellow of the 2nd and 3rd. I support this matter and rejoice that it will return to the welfare committee and be replaced. Of course, we must answer the question: Are we acting on GRECO's opinion and doing it right? Of course, this is a minimum requirement, and we need to get something clear. I'm glad the case goes back in, but I'll be wearing yellow in 2 and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u23	A respectable president. Most of the time, it's fine. There's just some question left regarding a social order. Since it is vital that these factors be overreached, we rejoice that this matter is being called in to the committee. We'll sit by the votes in which this applies, these differences, but in the second place, the Porta Council supports this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u24	Madam President. Big events are currently putting a look on security and protection issues in our part of the world. Not only do I refer to the ongoing invasion of Russia in Ukraine but I refer to the effects of this most frightening war in the continent since the end of World War II, including. In our environment. The invasion of Russia in Ukraine has upset the established order and fundamental principle of the United Nations covenant, which has rarely been respected in recent decades of international politics; that an invasion of a treasonal purpose is not tolerated. The consequences of the war extend far beyond our part of the world, including ours. because of the shocking effects on food security caused by Russia's military forces. A respectable president. Two northern countries, Finland and Sweden have now decided to disappear from their long-term policy of outside alliances in security and protection and applying for involvement in the Atlantic Community. Both countries formally announced this decision on May 18 on. I hereby recommend a synonym looking for the warrant of the Generals to confirm the proposed additional agreements at the Northern Atlantic Convention from 1949 when available. The addition agreements have to do with the involvement of Finland and Sweden into the Atlantic Community. If the countries are to participate in such activities, it will bring great benefits both for the two states and for all Community states, and for Finland and Sweden, they will enjoy the protective bonds of the North Atlantic Convention, as stated in Article 5. His. At that time, the defenses and the subversive powers of the Community will be strengthened and, therefore, the security of countries on the north side of the Community, as both Finland and Sweden have powerful armies to control. This dramatic step will have an extensive and positive effect on the norse protection organization, which has so far been less extensive than the established cooperation of culture, social, environmental and health issues, even though the Norwegian partnership on safety and protection has also grown in fish's spine. In this context, there are also increasing cooperation in various areas between the five northern countries and our friends in the Baltic, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Between these eight countries is a strong thread that is important to nurture and trust. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate the fact that applications and find and Sweden are involved in the Atlantic Alliance now and congratulate these neighbors and friends of ours on their decision and purpose. The prime minister of Iceland, Denmark and Norway have expressed support to the application, and that has also been done by the foreign minister of the countries. With the involvement of Finland and Sweden and the Community, certain uncertainty over their international situation will disappear and defence will result in a threat to their safety. Increased safety and protection in the Baltic area will therefore be an effective step for peace and stability in our part of the world. Then I think it's right to celebrate the declarations of a number of federal states that they will be involved in ensuring the safety of Sweden and Finland until its membership is resolved. A respectable president. As most are aware, there was hope for the start of business talks that could begin almost immediately when the applications were received. At that time, such discussions were also expected to take place very quickly. There are now 29 of the 30 members of the Community have already described support for the applications and for one Member State. Turkey, has not been able to agree that this work could start. I can't say anything else here at this point but that I expect a solution to be found soon. In this context, it is appropriate to check that my decision to submit this synonym now is in line with the determination of our Icelanders to give support to their applications. In these areas we travel with our cousins in Norway and Denmark, but the treatment of similar proposals is beginning in both countries and is also following the procedure to ask for consent on the basis of how potential accords will appear, but they will follow very solid forms. Once they start, the parties are expected to move rapidly. Finland and Sweden have, in fact, met the majority of the conditions of the Member States already, they have, for example. Joined in cooperation for peace, which has been with the people since 1994, participating in military exercises and peace operations around the world with the coalition. Similarly, I remind you that both Finland and Sweden have participated in exercise in Iceland related air space monitoring of the Atlantic Community. Then it is important to keep in mind that the Atlantic Union is designed to protect the security of countries that share common values of democracy, individual freedom, and justice. It is obvious that Sweden and Finland are in the front of these common values. Iceland has in recent decades confirmed and validated a number of contracts for enlargement of the Union. Its establishment included the 12 alliances and, by the half century, only four new kingdoms were added. Now there are a total of 30, including countries that were formerly part of the Soviet Union, e.g. The three Baltic States, but also a number of countries, who were either subjugated or under the influence of the Soviet Union. After meeting Member States, an additional agreement with the two states is set aside. Therefore, agreements on involvement in the Community will be ready to be signed as soon as possible, after which the validation process will take place, first in all 30 states and then in Finland and Sweden. Two. The addition agreements will be required to gain their credit only if all members of the North Atlantic Convention have reported their confirmation of them. A respectable president. Iceland has always taken its place in the states that the coalition stands open to those democracies who seek entrance provided they meet all relevant conditions. Thus Iceland has firmly supported the expansion of the Community that has taken place since the 12 countries were at its establishment in 1949. We have considered that by expanding our alliance, we would have further support for Europe's stability and peace but also to rely on the basic ideas of democracy, rights, and justice. Therefore, the goal of growth is never, and is not to threaten other countries. Rather, we want to protect the right of countries to control their own affairs, including choosing partners in defense and security, with mutual interests and partners in mind. As I knew before, Finland and Sweden have already cooperated with the states of the Atlantic Community. And furthermore, I'd like to make it known that if the two states become two parties, they will themselves pay the cost of adjusting their own defense to a coordinated defense system of the Union. Although Community protection programmes can be expected to take into account the estimates of Finland and Sweden, the current Community countries will not need to increase their spendings for protection or carry additional costs from the entrance of Finland and Sweden. A respectable president. It is my hope that this proposal for Congress will be promptly introduced to the Council's Foreign Affairs Committee. By means of the Council's warrant, we will be equipped to speed up the confirmation process on our part. I remind you here that the world's headquarters meeting of the Madrid Atlantic Alliance is imminent at the end of June. I believe it was a strong indication of Iceland's inconspicuous support of our Norwegian neighboring nations that the Peoples agree to this first source. There are great interests at stake and an important opportunity for Iceland to add its weight to the scales for our world's security and peace. In these days, when our peaceful neighbor countries and neighbors in Europe experience their own threat and uncertainty, I believe it is right that we Iceland, Iceland's Government, and the World Council to act together. That's what we do. by accepting this warrant both rapidly and effectively by good wishes. Finally, a respectable president, I suggest that the case be referred to a second discussion and why. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u25	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this presentation, this synonym and how the matter has been handled. I think it's safe to agree as high as possible. A minister noted the importance of Iceland's continuing support for our friends in the Northern countries and the government of Iceland and the Council, such as the Supreme Assembly. Ministers expressed it, have a sense of solidarity and solidarity in this matter. I expect the General to do the best, most likely in all respects. But what about the government? Is the government of Iceland not only agree that Finland and Sweden become part of the Atlantic Community but also that Iceland is? It's not for a reason I'm asking. A very interesting visit to local conventions and Ministers in Estonia and Finland shortly ago, with these issues being discussed, many left men visited at the meetings of these countries, claiming that they had been a clear source of member members of the NATO until February 24 of this year. Then they would simply have changed their mind. Although they might appreciate Iceland's support, it was odd for them to have heard that it wasn't monologue, so I quote the highest. Minister, of Iceland's own position for membership in NATO. This, therefore, is important in this context, as we heard from these Norwegian senators, who put great emphasis on harmony and solidarity in that country on participation in NATO. Does it not also matter in Iceland that the national government shows solidarity and harmony regarding involvement in the Atlantic Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u26	A respectable president. The government operates according to national security policies that we have set up in which members of the Atlantic Community are the cornerstone of that policy, and there is absolutely no disagreement in Iceland's government. Similarly, the government is united in supporting the membership of Find and Sweden and their own decision-making rights to request involvement in the Atlantic Union, and there is no controversy about it either. Then the prime minister has shared in the Northern Prime Minister's declaration of this support to Sweden and found himself entering the Atlantic Alliance. So it is not a problem to work after a national security policy where membership is its cornerstone nor to work on it, whether at NATO meetings as Ministers of Foreign Affairs, at NATO conferences as secretary of defense, or when NATO's summits are held where Prime Ministers themselves are sitting. There has been no problems, that cooperation and that work, between the Member States, within the government or with our people in Brussels, who work at the Atlantic Community. So even though it may be interesting, or may raise, questions about one-rate policy in the government, this decision has been available for all these years, followed by much integrity. I have found the prime minister to be outstanding in putting national security policy first and speaking out of it as our national leader here and the leader of the government, and it has simply not been a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u27	Madam President. It's a big deal, and it's a pleasure that Iceland is doing so well with our neighboring countries in the North, and that's why I'm gonna keep back on going to too much into the local politics. Yet, it cannot be overlooked that the above descriptions. The foreign minister of Iceland, therefore, is pleased to have other ministers in the government, especially the highest. Prime Minister, let him overlook his own course and follow a different course while still pursuing his course. This is not very reassuring, Madam President, on Iceland's position on this large matter, which is NATO and our membership and other nations, especially, now with the entry of Find and Sweden into this coalition. But that is what I have another question for the highest. Minister. As the minister's case showed, this addition to NATO is strongly supported by this addition, from apparently all nations except Turkey. And then I ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Would the minister, if a choice had to be made, prefer Sweden and Finland into NATO or keep Turkey in NATO if chosen?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u28	Madam President. First, speculations. A senator who was going to hold back but has since not, I say again: It has not been a problem, and the government has all worked for national security, and I have no concern that it will not continue. Now we've got a what? A senator himself is a government officer, and he even leads it and knows how it is when it is formed and how each minister is responsible for his case, and together there is political agreement on a particular matter. But I'm not going to go any closer on the left movement's policy of the green offer of defense and security. Regarding the second question, it is such a question that I would feel irresponsible to stand here and answer in some form of interaction about some position that is not yet there. I'm sure it's a shame. I don't think it's appropriate for me to have an unplugged case, at least at least not directly related, are drawn into this pattern of events, which, just as is the case. A senator, of course, said, is a big and serious matter, and it is a big deal that two countries are reaching for involvement in the Atlantic Union after all that has happened and what changed on February 24 and on the past. But that is the situation today. She's in a very sensitive phase, and people are trying to solve that situation so that I can't help but hope that this will be solved and that Turkey will really agree that it can start the business and that it will be done. Until further notice, I will speak in such a way that the kingdom will be 32, hopefully as all, first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to underline and say the highest words. Minister who has been very successful in this case for Iceland. I would like to agree with this solidarity and harmony by quickly moving in here at the council and supporting very strongly the applications of Finland and Sweden into the National Defense Association of NATO. There, the minister has our irrefutable support in the restoration and other divisions, I know. I'd like to ask you maybe two things. There is a summit in Madrid, and it involves Georgia and Moldova, who are also applying for participation in NATO. Of course, it is vivid to these nations, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, but also the Baltic States of their time, and now Finland and Sweden, where they consider their safety and sovereignty to be the best city, and in society and the cooperation of Western democracies as we do through NATO. We know that Georgia and Moldova do not meet, especially Georgia, all the conditions that NATO sets because of a border analysis, but there is a disagreement with Russia, and there were Russians one - sided that created that conflict by attacking Georgia in their time, 2008. In fact, Ukraine does not meet conditions that NATO makes possible by the invasion and violence of the country. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister to do all she can to help speed up the entrance of Georgia and Moldova. I'd appreciate it if she could go over these things a little bit. The more Western democratic nations are united in that coalition, the stronger we are in defending these values that are so precious; democracy, liberty, and human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u30	Madam President. Georgia is in an application procedure, but Moldova is not an application state. We have said and will continue to do so that we really support that the alliance has an open door for its members. We've always supported that rule and we're still doing it. Georgia goes further, and it's true. Regarding the complexity of the situation in the United States and the blame for whom it is responsible, a member of the body comments. But that is the reality that makes things more complicated. Of course, it takes, with Georgia as well as with other countries, the approval of all countries, and the process simply takes time. But we've been very clear about the fact that the door is open to the states it votes and makes the decision to want to pursue membership, and we'll continue, from now on, speaking in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Ministers give the answers, and they're just happy about it. But I have to hope that the NATO or NATO will think about who really makes the conditions. Suppose the Russians recorded 15 minutes for application Find out how to enter a small part of Finland. Then they would have made Finland, according to our own rules, NATO, not really entitled to enter NATO on that basis. So it's about pushing with Georgia and later with Moldova. I would especially like to commend the minister for the tone she has sent to the Turks at this time. I feel completely inappropriate how Turkey has shown itself in this application procedure. It is obvious that we are not talking about the expansion of NATO for the first time, that has been done quite often and repeatedly for the last 20◯25 years. Never, though, have they been directed to what they do now. This is highly inappropriate, and I'm glad the Minister is holding up this lawsuit. Then, maybe it's enough, but I'm just gonna empty my quota to commend a minister. I would especially like to highlight the importance of making this matter clear when it comes to the invasion and atrocities of Russia in Ukraine. Rather, it is intolerable to read about it in the papers and to sense that there are voices, conservatives, repetitives, out - of - date voices within groups that are trying to justify the actions of a Russian in Ukraine, trying to say it shouldn't be that way. We know exactly where these magazines are and I think the minister knows exactly what I mean. Hence, it is important that government officials, such as Foreign Ministers, speak very clearly against the violence that the Russians og Putin are having done in Ukraine, which is spoken from the very beginning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For that, I'd like to thank you in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u32	Madam President. I appreciate that. In general, it is beneficial to speak clearly but would not have thought of the person mentioned here who would have to do so at this time about these matters. But all changes are fought, and certain conflicts, and certain ideologies, and what you think you can get away with, in some way always returns, even when you think it will not. That's when it's very important to speak clearly. I agree with it. A senator about that, I think so too. Sometimes I find in a conversation about foreign affairs in Iceland that someone may not feel that it is so important that what Iceland says, we're so small, and we're so few, we're so far away, we don't have an army, etc., and when things are uncomfortable, maybe it's better not to say anything or say anything better because of the fact that other things are rocking some boat. I completely disagree with that assessment. I believe that a small country that has the same place at the table as all the others, one place like the big, has exactly and has a moral obligation to use its voice and say things that need to be said, especially where we have firm credibility, but also because we have only a very rich and strong conviction. So even though we're experiencing an entirely miserable international era and when it comes to security and defense, I'm doing it with great and sincere humility, but I'm happy to say things out loud and to tell them clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u33	Madam President. There is a world-reporting news that Sweden and Finland have now applied for membership in NATO, and in fact, in different ways, these countries have remained neutral as the cornerstone of their foreign policy, but in Europe the issue has, unfortunately, been saying that these countries believe only to associate with other European countries and the United States on their defenses. Such is the threat they feel is a result of Russian expansion policy. The union supports this proposal and wants to pay for this application to be done quickly and safely, as it is happy that these nations will be added to this association. It is said in a paper that these countries have both a ideological alliance with the baseline Atlantic alliance, which says, by permission of the President, the members of the Convention declare loyalty to the objectives and principles of the United Nations Convention and their desire to live in peace with all nations and all the governments, and that the objective of the treaty is to preserve the collective heritage and culture, rests on democratic principles, individual rights and rights. Of course, there is always a controversy over how successful it has always been in NATO member nations and even in its whole alliance to meet these objectives, but it is quite clear that participation in Find and Sweden will be the means to strengthen them. There is also reason to believe that within the Community the vision of the Norwegian nations will be strengthened that the best way to find peaceful solutions to national conflicts and that it will be most successful to promote the world's security and peace is to increase the equation between nations, individual states, equations, and righteousness. Madam President. The union supports both in word and in the work of our members of the Icelanders to NATO. True, we are an unarmed, peaceful people, but we do not have to watch our own defenses, and we simply cannot pretend that the world is none of our concern. The fears faced by modern societies are certainly more and more complex than when the alliance was formed. At present, the threat of nuclear threat has increased that we can attack the interior parts of the world, on the interior parts of society, and may at times appear in the form of information chaos or targeted false news. Of course, different defenses apply there. But still, we Icelanders must join us in the countryside with established democracies that have bound up with organizations to strengthen their defenses against military threats, however they may appear. Even if we don't have an army and we don't stand to set up an army on this land, we can and should use ourselves in NATO in a number of other ways. We have a voice there and we're supposed to use it. We're supposed to be making a sound. Now that it seems that our cousins are growing within the alliance, it should strengthen our voice. Therefore, it is in accordance with our national interests to be in close contact with our cousins and democratic states in Europe. There is also good reason to use this opportunity to remind you of the most powerful and efficient cooperation in Europe, especially in the field of democracy, freedom and peace, taking place in the European Union. Of course, we Icelanders are to have a full share with shenanigans and to work more than bickering for decades in their shelters. Madam President. This application does not require an especially many words. If the Russians feel threatened by NATO and rising strength, and the affiliation of the coalition around them, it will soon be said that the Ukraine invasion has reduced the risk. On the contrary, it caused the nations of the Union to multiply in a group of nearby Russians, apart from, of course, all the damage, the improbable damage and tragedy caused by the invasion, primarily for the Ukrainian nation itself, but also for Russia, both the economic and the reputation of the country. In other words, this illegal invasion by Russia has strengthened NATO and weakened Russia. Madam President. I'm glad they've developed this vast support in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it sounds like the whole council for this proposal, and I look forward to continuing the case on a committee and on a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u34	A respectable president. The current debate is so significant in many ways, both in international comparison and in view of the Norwegian cooperation with which we Icelanders are so active. However, the reason for the discussion is due to events that none of us ever dreamed of in the way we have seen happen. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has transformed Europe's landscape, especially Eastern Europe, and hard to see how this situation or the sea is going to calm down in the coming years. Hopes that had led to the threat have proved to be false, and war in Europe is a fact. Most of the European countries are now concerned with protection and have large financial support for safety and protection in Europe. Concern for the development of conflicts in the coming weeks, months, or even years is the minds of the nations of the continent, not to see how that conflict will end. There is real concern as to whether the invaders will stop at the border of Ukraine or continue into neighboring lands. It's the fears of the countries in Eastern Europe, and it was well established at the New York City annual meeting in Vilnius this weekend. This and the uncertainty about where the conflict will lead and the new world scene into security and defenses that have been drawn up in the past few months. The Northern Atlantic Convention was signed on April 4, 1949, where 12 independent states were signed under the Community Convention and decided to establish a defense alliance where the basis for an attack on one state amounted to an attack on all of them. In 1949, the whole world, and Europe in particular, had to recover from the tragedy of World War II, and the Cold War between the East and the West was drawing up. For good reason, those 12 nations were moved to secure their defenses and to form an alliance to ensure the safety of their inhabitants and their borders. Tracks scared. Iceland had gained sovereignty in 1918 with a contract on December 1, that year. According to the agreement, Iceland had the right to resign from her relationship with Denmark after 25 years. The program was completely started in 1944, and the Republic of Iceland became a reality. So it was a young nation who had the vision to sit at the table and decide to become one of the founders of the new security and defense alliance in the North Atlantic, thus ensuring a better defense of the nation against the future threat that the nation would face in the future. An attack on a sovereign and independent nation in Europe that has made it one of its own desire to be independent is unacceptable behavior and is to be rejected. It must have consequences, and for her it must be punished. Ukraine is now defending her independence, the same independence that Iceland and I have fought years ago, even hundreds of years ago, conquering 1944. Today, there are 30 member countries, and my hope is that they will increase to 32 by entering Sweden and Finland. A respectable president. We're here to discuss the passage of Sweden and find in a security and protection alliance, NATO. So I'm happy for a step, and I think that, if this is approved, it will strengthen the defenses of the states as well as the defenses of our Icelanders. Similarly, it strengthens the position of countries in the north Atlantic as well as of the Baltic States, which is of great importance to us. Sadly, the idea of sitting by and not participating in neutrality is no longer on the table of Find and Sweden's estimates and the changing world picture and the threat I've faced above will lead to the new situation in these two countries and in all Europe. Making decisions has not been easy, but they were direct. It is the opinion of these countries that their interests are better placed within an alliance than outside. It has been discussed here since Iceland's entry into the Community whether Iceland's interests are better off inside or outside the organization. In my opinion, this discussion has reached the end zone. An armyless nation needs to be able to defend itself at critical times. A respectable president. I welcome the entry of Sweden and Finland into the National Security and Defense Alliance of NATO, and I believe it is a success step for NATO and member countries of the Community, including Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u35	A respectable president. Finland and Sweden's application to the NATO Atlantic Community is a great source of joy to Iceland and the entire Atlantic Community and underscores the importance of this protection of the Federal Community in Western Europe for both Europe's safety and the world's security. I believe that these countries have a good chance of joining this alliance and showing how important it is. Iceland's Member States to the 1949 Atlantic Alliance was important for Iceland's independence and its sovereignty. Iceland's foreign policy is based on two mains, its involvement in NATO, and its defence agreements against the United States. That is where we will secure our sovereignty as a government, our sovereignty as an independent state. I'd just like to introduce to you what we discussed in the preceding discussion, which is that Prime Minister's sect is opposed to the NATO population. However, he supports the NATO community of Finland and Sweden, not his own. It is a very special feature of Icelandic politics that it is possible for prime minister to recommend the membership of two peoples of friends rather than to support the involvement of his own Kingdom. There is a paradox that needs to be answered, and it would be good if a foreign minister would answer that contrary without simply quoting national security. I know that in other countries, as in Norway, the SV, the sociian left party, has considered whether to support the Atlantic alliance or not. The Member States of Sweden and Finland will make ANTO enormously strong. Both countries have very powerful armies and spend a lot of money in defense. Finns include e.g. With a military duty, and after the fall of the wall, they did not reduce their expenses for the war, and have an army of 200,000 people, to whom they may call. It's similar with Sweden. They also have very powerful military equipment, produce their own jets, submarines, and weapons, and they would be a huge asset to the defense alliance to protect the northern countries and Scandinavia, and it is good if they have already applied for involvement in the alliance. Finland has had to fight for its independence and sovereignty. On November 30, 1939, Stalín invaded Finland, three months after World War II began. The Finnish winter war is similar to the war fought in Ukraine today. A lot of things like that. Finland lost her eastern provinces, East Carolina, in peace agreements that finished the war. They fought a very heroic battle, and the war was a great humiliation to the Soviet army, which, of course, was primarily the Russian army. It is not likely that similar things will happen now, that the present war in Ukraine will be over with peace treaties and nothing else. Of course, we must support Ukraine in the war with all the resources we have as an armyless nation, and the reason why Sweden and Finland are applying for involvement in the Atlantic Community is the invasion of Pútín in Ukraine, the invasion of Pútín, and the Russian military in a sovereign state, a democratic state. Finland's dealings with the Soviet Union and then Russia are very interesting in historical terms. Today, Finns are the happiest nation in the world, with a tremendously cool technical sector, a vast wealth, and a high lifestyle. Now they do not see how they can trust the giant in the east anymore, despite having been able to do so, to live with him, with their own military force for the last 70 years. So this is a major turning point in the history of NATO, and it is also a major milestone in northern history. Secretary of State came in. Now the entire North countries are gathered in the Atlantic Union. The reasons why Sweden and Finland were not party to the fact that NATO is very interesting in history. This shows our participation in or our involvement in World War II and in Denmark, Norway, and Iceland, which was very different across the three countries. It was even very different between Norway and Denmark. Together, we are all in NATO, which means that the northern countries are from Greenland, almost from Canada's border, to the border of Russia in NATO. This will strengthen the northern defense work that Iceland hopefully has to do with the rest of its existence as an armyless nation. For example, when Finland celebrated the 100th anniversary of her independence, in Norway, there was a lot of discussion that Norway would give a mountain to Finland, which would then be the highest peak of Finland. It was Mount Halti. Today, Finland's highest peak is 1,325 meters [325 m] above sea level, on the slopes of this mountain, the highest mountain peak lies within the Norway border, to a height of 1,361 feet. Sadly, it was not possible to do so, and Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that it was not possible to do so. The constitution. But this shows how much friendship and close friendships are in the North countries, especially Scandinavian countries. We are to be even more involved in all aspects of our cooperation. It seems that all nations of the Atlantic Union support the membership of Finland and Sweden. Turkey has made comments at its membership, especially in Kurda. However, there are factors that should be negotiated in all respects. Turkey is a hugely important party to NATO, with its largest troops, and it is at a world place that is extremely important to Europe's safety, between Asia and Europe. It's an important kingdom. I believe that negotiations between them will not interfere with the membership of Finland and Sweden in part. There has been mention of the membership attendances of Moldova and Georgia, and I believe that in spite of border conflicts, NATO should agree with the involvement of these countries. Russia cannot be damaged by having a border dispute with these countries. It can only then be that the areas will be protected completely within the sovereignty of the government of Georgia and Moldova. I've come to Abkasia, which is the least part of Georgia, and that's a magnificent area. It's a kind of Monte Carlo of the Black Sea, but the economy is terrible. It is all because of political situation and inconsistencies where the empire has managed to split part of the country out of Georgia, and economic developments have totally stopped there. It is important, and I challenge the minister of foreign affairs to speak for these countries at NATO meetings. Iceland can have a very important contribution as a small nation. We've shown that, e.g. In the Council of Human Rights, there we can speak freely as a small nation rather than the superpowers and larger nations. Speaking the language of these nations at the entrance of the Member States would strengthen the position of small nations like these nations. These are both democratic nations who are trying to develop their economy toward Western economy and have succeeded in many ways, but there is a measure of deterioration, e.g. in Moldova, due to a region called Translistraa, where Russian soldiers rule. But I believe that these countries are both welcome to join the Atlantic Alliance. In fact, Moldova's constitution requires neutrality, but it is their problem to resolve it, and this application is welcome and will hopefully be taken care of as soon as possible. I believe that the voice of Iceland within the Atlantic Community as an armyless country should be heard well in terms of civil rights and democracy, and especially about the rights of other little nations. I hope that this application will be done as soon as possible and it has a lot of rights and is very happy for the northerns, for Europe and for the Atlantic Community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u36	Madam President. The most important purpose of international politics is peace. It is our role as politicians to promote world peace. But it is not always easy to fight for peace when other nations make their own choice to engage in war. The fact is, the European environment of security has changed dramatically over the last 100 days. We are now experiencing the first war in Europe for decades. This modified world view has led to the pursuit of the membership of NATO by our cousins, Sweden, and Finns, who have so far been outside the world's wars. In spite of this wish for participation in these two states, a greater part of the democratic elected representatives of the national conventions of these countries and the desire for a more decisive part of the two nations. In fact, despite being a small country, Iceland has a strong voice in the international field. It is the policy of Pirata to use her to set a good example. Iceland is designed to promote and protect human rights in international cooperation. Pirates want to ensure that all treaties are open and accessible, and direct democracy will be guided by major foreign decisions. This is because we believe in the rights of our citizens to make decisions, e.g. Whether to be in NATO, the EU or any international cooperation. And just as we believe that the Icelanders should have their share in what international work we share in them, we believe that citizens of the nations should have their share in the worldwide work they are participating in. It is our policy to the membership of Iceland that NATO reflects the voice and will of the nation for participation in NATO and other defense laws. Surely, then, we must support the democratic will and voice of our cousins in the northern countries when it comes to their involvement. At the same time, it is our Pirata policy to be targeted against any military structure in the North Atlantic and north. This, of course, raises questions when it comes to agreeing to the expansion of military alliances. That is a decision that should not be taken lightly. We should think of the short - term and long - term consequences of such decisions, what it will mean for the world's peace, and what the consequences may be for other alliances and for those outside the Community. Getting more Norwegian nations in NATO that have values similar to that of us may even lead to a higher voice of peace within its ranks. Regardless of whether the trial will be that or not, Piranar and I stress that we respect the will of those nations who seek to be involved. The respect for democracy and the self - determination of the people must be above the individual political objective of leaders and politicians. Therefore, I agree with this synonym to allow the government to confirm for Iceland the proposed additional agreements at the Northern Atlantic Convention on the Member States of Finland and the Sweden State at their presence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u37	Madam President. Europe is now at a critical turning point in which basic values and wars are shaken. How vital for the successful future of the continent's nations that they work together for the support of democracies, human rights, peace, and security of people who have the same right to future generations of human life as the future is guaranteed, where national self - determination and communication are determined by mutual respect and peaceful solutions. Many nations now experience a number of even greater numbers than has been for a long period of time, even more because of the devastating events of the past few months, during the invasion of Russia in Ukraine and its consequences that are unattainable. Now, two of our friends, Finland and Sweden, have decided to apply for membership in NATO. These nations have been closer to us, have advocated peace, and have been therapeutic in international politics. Iceland and the North have stressed finding peaceful solutions each time and trying to resolve conflicts peacefully. As chairman of the State Department, I support the activities of Find and Sweden. Especially is this so because, after reaching a democratic conclusion that I respect, our friends and neighbors are applying for membership. Should I expect their membership to make the alliance even more likely to seek peaceful solutions, as the northern nations have been able to do. The General Assembly Department of Foreign Affairs is in agreement with these countries in their application to NATO. This introduced Finns and I on our trip to the country recently and found the Finland State Department and the national foreign minister. In my view as the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I stress that these are our neighboring nations who have made a democratic decision and I believe that their membership will have a positive effect on the alliance, as well as on what it will strengthen our position there and the common values that we share with other northern nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u38	A respectable president. Yes, this is a remarkable time here at the Assembly Hall, as well as when it is recommended for the expansion of NATO, the defense of Western republics for peace and security. Reverence is strongly supportive of the applications of Sweden and Finland and to make a deal with them so that they will become members of the Coalition. I want to agree with what. The head of the State Department; within the Committee, there is complete harmony, and the work has worked well. Russia's bloody invasion of Ukraine has completely changed the state of world affairs and the challenges facing the international system. This has led to great and long - term consequences. World affairs have been disturbed, as all nations have felt, and political influences have not gone unnoticed in this vast period of uncertainty. The whole world movie has changed completely. An even greater conflict has developed between the world's superpowers, tensions between democracies and dictators. This growing tension calls for an ever - increasing cooperation between Western countries. Of course, there are great safety concerns at stake, but most of all, the peace itself is at stake. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is as much an attack on democracy itself, its own state and its sovereignty, an attack on our values that would ensure freedom, justice and human communities, and then solid defenses, strong democracy, and open communities are most important. Democratic nations need to get together in a fuller way to secure their own safety and maintain their own baseline values. Therefore, Western cooperation is now more important than ever, for it is during this very time when the alliances must stick together. Such threats to peace and democracy give us reason to reevaluate our status and future. That's what Sweden and Finnar do with their applications that we're discussing here at the council today. They're historical, and that's why you can't help but celebrate them, and that's what I do eagerly. The Russian invasion of Ukraine and their cruel violence there remind us that peace itself is not, unfortunately. In fact, we are reminded every day when the Ukraine war is being heard with ever more repugnant reports of the war. There have been serious violations of human rights. The invasion is then principally an attack on the Ukraine public, an attack on the everyday lives of the common people there. Most of these victims are the tens of thousands who have died and the millions who have been forced to flee the country. The invasion leaves a burned - out earth, and the result is the violence that is being committed today, and it will continue to bite on future generations in the land. But the invasion is also an attack on our value of freedom, democracy, and human rights. To me, there is no doubt that the cruel violence of the Russians against this neighboring nation is primarily rooted in the greatest fear of the totalitarian regime. Russia is not a military threat to Ukraine or any neighboring country other than the democratic influence, they are contagious. We face the reality that defending the sovereignty of our country is not costless, and few nations depend more on it than we do. Likewise, our responsibilities are to cooperate more than those of others. It is important not to view war in Ukraine as an isolated phenomenon. This is not one of the events that captures our mind for a few days or weeks and then hears about it. It can't happen. Moreover, the Ukraine War is not written on one mad man. Pútín was simply applying the weaknesses of democracies in a new world. His vision of the future is to continue as long as he believes that democracy is at a disadvantage rather than a totalitarian country. After World War II, the United States had taken the lead in establishing the Atlantic Union. It's a defense alliance between countries in North America and Europe. Iceland was offered to establish the alliance at the time because of its military translation. What a vision it was to accept that invitation and become a founder of NATO 1949! The core of our national security policy, adopted by Council of 2016, is our involvement in NATO and a defense agreement with the United States. These points are specifically set out among the things that will ensure independence, sovereignty, and immunity from our borders of Iceland. And if someone thought that he was involved in NATO and in the defense of the United States, only a letter on paper and a sign of an old story, the Ukraine war has completely changed that picture. This cornerstone of Western cooperation has never been more a living reality for decades than it is now. They understand the nations most threatened by the totalitarian power of Russia today, and what means do these nations have? The Baltic States have a clear choice. They chose to enter the EU and NATO to ensure democracy, security, prosperity, freedom, and prosperity. Finns and Sweden do the same, and it is quite clear what they have chosen, including Moldova, Georgia, and Ukraine. I would like to encourage, as I did in the past, the minister of foreign affairs to insist that NATO's summit in Madrid now in June send these states a very clear message that they are welcome to the alliance. So our response to the war in Ukraine is not to be limited to today. We need to look ahead, as Finnar and Sweden have now done, and Danir do today with their own pace, that they intend to become fully involved in the defense within the EU by paying the Nationalitor - Danir to pay his own dues, it would be good if it had the same thing here. There are times of great importance today in many parts of the world. We have to have the courage to evaluate Iceland's status in new light and to ensure the future benefit of our Icelanders in all ways. Thus, at such times, it is important that we Icelanders take the necessary steps to ensure the protection and safety of the nation. The composition of the government, the sensitivity and the contrasts within it when it comes to national defenses must not lead to the taking of the lowest cohesor in the interest monitoring for Iceland, especially in the fleeting times we now live in. The national security policy was produced in 2016. In the year 2022, we live in an invasion of Russia in Ukraine, an invasion of security, and the values we want to protect. We need to take decisive steps, sharpen our defense agreement with the United States. Although it's hard and sensitive to the left green to agree with it, we have to adopt that contract, we have a conversation with the United States that the defence agreement will take a clear turn on the national network attacks and attacks on the infrastructure, how to activate the contract, how to call the Americans if we are attacked or our infrastructure comes. And we need to make sure that we have a conversation about what is involved in having a permanent defense team in Iceland, whether through the United States or through the state of NATO and our friends. This is a conversation we must take though, as I say, it may be difficult for the government leadership party to admit it. One category of restoration, from what I understand, has provided suggestions that focus on increasing our safety and protection at these fleeting times and taking steps in this situation. And we do, as I say, with increased emphasis on our involvement in the Atlantic Alliance. What can we do more than we have done now? Increase much more, including Our civil involvement in NATO and our defense work with the United States, deepening and improving it. But we also need to deepen our cooperation with the European Union through the full involvement of Iceland. In my opinion, this part has never - never been more urgent. The same is true of solidarity with our democracies and friends people. The harmony we present today in the council with our friends, Sweden, and Finns is of utmost importance, and it is good to find their tone of voice, that we support the expansion of NATO. No one's talking about throwing Iceland out of NATO, that's what I'm hoping won't be. The more freedom - and democratic - loving nations, especially small nations - it is important for us to stand together for freedom and for national security and security. And then it is important for us Icelanders to be in an alliance of nations, both through the European Union and equally through NATO. To have this clear voice, this tone that has been introduced here before. It sounds like democracy, that we speak fearlessly for human rights and civil rights and equality anywhere, at any time, always. Because even though we're small, we're using our voice at the table. And now it is good, as in NATO, that a strong and strong voice should be at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u39	Madam President. Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the expected membership of Finland and Sweden serve as a primary reminder that human history is not finished. After the end of the Cold War, some seemed to have, at least Western countries reach the inevitable destination of evolution, and they do not have to take special care of it. But now we are reminded that democracy and civil values need to be protected, and this may need to be done by a military alliance. Not long ago, NATO was talking about as if it were somehow old - fashioned, a part of a lost world. But now we are thoroughly reminded that this is not the case. I'll admit, Madam President, that I can well understand the position of forming groups such as the left movement of a green supply had for Iceland's NATO. I didn't necessarily agree with them, but I could understand the stand. In 1949, my grandfather and other relatives protested here on the Eastfield, and they developed tear gas when it was decided that Iceland was in NATO. This was directly followed by the failure of Iceland to be a member of the United Nations because the State considered the prince's position of neutrality to be more important than accepting the obligation to declare war on Germany. But circumstances had changed back then, and they have truly changed now. It is therefore inevitable, Madam President, in my opinion that we all members of Congress are reevaluated - of course, we need to do so on a regular basis but especially now - our previous stand, as have the members and ministers of Sweden and Finland today. I mentioned earlier that we on the Foreign Affairs Committee had had the privilege of meeting with the foreign committees of these countries and ministers, and there, members of Congress who had always been firmly opposed to Finland's involvement in the Atlantic alliance declared that this had changed, with a changed world, with a changed status. I think the Icelandic government, the government, and the government, and the council, and the council, need to consider, too, whether the situation has not changed in this way that we need to show harmony, the government of Iceland, to support this defense alliance, which must be said to have proved to be well with us Iceland for decades. We need to accept peace policy, as we would undoubtedly make it necessary for most Icelandic senators to recognize that in order to defend peace, peace needs protection. That's why I'm at the highest. The minister and the government all to re-evaluate together, to reevaluate the collective situation we face, to show harmony, to the importance of so much emphasis being placed on in Sweden and Finland, and, indeed, in Estonia as well. It was previously said that no one could become prime minister in Iceland. It changed with this government, which defined itself as a government with a wide range of appeals to politics rather than a policy. All of a sudden, though, we experience that history continues and politics continues, and the government has to take a stand. At the very least, I think it is clear that if Prime Ministers in Sweden or Finland were now opposed to the country's involvement, then the prime minister would rather depart than appeal to someone else who had decided which course the country should take. Of course, we welcome the involvement of these friendly nations into NATO, and I think that most of us can or all can agree that Sweden and Finland are a good addition to NATO and a strong alliance, of course, find themselves with a rocky army, such as the examples of true and Sweden's great weapons manufacturers, even though sometimes I thought it was too much without my going further into it. At any rate, it is better to keep them within the Community than outside and that the strength of these countries adds to the strength of the Atlantic alliance. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned a point in the preceding talk that caught my attention, on the one hand, because I completely agreed. A senator, on the other hand, because I disagreed completely. First, it was right. A senator said that the Russian government has made good use of weaknesses, or what they at least had. sensed as a Western weakness, in order to expand the work they considered to be practical, and even the country's president took his own language from the Communists in the past and began talking about the Western countries as Fascist or Nazi. The Berlin Wall was called the Holy Wall in Berlin. But he also took the language of the newly - known Western people by accusing his opposers of such feelings. However, in my opinion it is entirely out of the question to link Finland's interest and Sweden to the Navy's defense alliance with possible cause, and hopefully not possibly, but possibly, the part of Iceland in the European Union. When has the European Union stuck in defense? Never. Never. America has had to come to the rescue. NATO has had to come to the rescue. The European Union, unfortunately, has nothing to do with protection. These countries, Finland and Sweden, are both members of the European Union, but clearly consider this to be of no value to protection. In addition, the European Union has not shown that it has an perception of conditions such as present - day countries such as the Poles and the Hungarians have been doing their best to receive a massive flow of refugees. How does the European Union respond? Helping them with financial support? No, overemphasizing fines for not following the European policy well enough. So that these are two separate things, and I would rather interpret that Swía's application and find involvement in the NATO, the existing European Union, serves as a reminder that the European Union is not sufficient to rely on it in defenses or in other ways. We welcome Finn's application and the Swík of involvement in the Atlantic Community and I hope we can settle this at the council as quickly as possible. On the State Department, we heard from members of the Parliament from the longest left to right in these countries that it was just a situation to consider that it was best to walk in NATO and make it as fast as possible. That's why I'm at the highest. A minister to continue and the Ministry to push these matters forward, and I encourage the Allied Assembly of Iceland to do so as to speed up the treatment of this case and to accept the involvement of Find and Swía into the Atlantic Alliance on the whole of the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u40	A respectable president. It is a joy to speak here in our friends' countries, Sweden and Finland, into the Atlantic Union, the largest expansion of the Union for decades, and, of course, it is always joyous when this is the time for needed and upbuilding discussions. However, there is no joy in the party, for the countries are moving to NATO directly following the invasion of Pútín in Ukraine, an invasion that had long been warned of by so many of our friends, but we were so surprised. The invasion has brought Western democracies together and, of course, we welcome the applications of these closest partners of NATO in the world's greatest defense and peace alliance. However, the EU Member State's involvement in Member States was only longer, and they have stepped closer to the Community for the past few years with ever closer cooperation. They have, however, described themselves that Pútín's invasion led to complete rejection of the nations'stand to stand formally outside the coalition. The members of its members had increased in number to the point of slow, biting, but after the invasion, the number of inhabitants has developed. These nations look to their friends and to part in the Baltic States, who now bless themselves in the arms of NATO and who, in horror, could become the next victim of the global greed of Pútín. As founders of the Atlantic Alliance, we can be proud of our involvement there and make a contribution, even though the contribution of an armyless nation is natural. But we are, of course, a nation without war, and we are at peace with the most powerful countries in the world, under the shelter of our defense of the United States, and in the shelter of cooperation with NATO, and in this shelter, of course, everyone should want to be. There Ukraine wanted to be happy, and there Sweden and Finland now want to be. While the Ukraine are fighting for their lives and fighting for our common values, we do our part here in our peaceful country and in our international cooperation. So we warmly welcome our friends, Finn and Swía, to an even closer cooperation in the field of NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u41	Madam President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution on Finland and Sweden's membership to the Atlantic Community. As noted, in 1949 we Iceland's founders have been active participants in the defense union despite being the only member of the United States that also does not have a traditional army. Our defense contribution takes into consideration this fact, but our importance has been significant and our emphasis has been given a sound code. The defense alliance has thus provided the basis for national security policy as well as the 1951 defense agreements with the United States. The cooperation in the national security policy of the country adopted at the 2016 General Assembly and the Iceland government is working on. NATO's policy of keeping the door open to new Member States has been for the benefit of the alliance. Special protection efforts in countries have also increased, which includes the Norse Defense Team of NORDEFCO, where the North countries have close cooperation in the area of safety and protection. Finland, Sweden, and Norway signed a three - sided agreement on defenses and security of 2020 and Sweden, and Finns have continued to work together in the light of the last few months of the Ukraine attack. The two nations have now decided to take a historic step in the defenses of the countries by applying for involvement in the world's largest and most powerful defense alliance. Finland has to order a powerful army, but so far it is considered more successful to stand outside NATO. Finland covers a 1,340 - mile [1,340 km] long border in Russia and thus changes their attitude toward entrance. For a long time, though, Finland has been closely cooperating with NATO in the field of defense. Sweden has considered neutrality more desirable. Consider the nation's situation during World War II. So it can also be said that the entering of Swía in NATO becomes a reality, a significant change in direction on their part. The reason for changes in security and defense is evident in the United States is, but on February 24, Russia began its invasion into its neighboring state of Ukraine, the sovereign state that is now exposed to its rights. The invasion has compromised Europe's security balance and called for the solidarity of democracies, not just in Europe, but throughout the world. Self - determination rights to self - determination and respect for borders and human rights seem to be served, if defined by the war in Ukraine. Understandably, the response to the war is important. Let us not forget that Europe has been the principal site of two world wars. Safety in the continent must be based on common interests for peace. A respectable president. There is no need for a long list of cooperation and historical ties with our uncles Finn and Swía. Our basic values and ideals are the same. Now that the nations have applied to become a controversant states of NATO in a formal manner following consultation and convergence treatment, the negotiation and continuation of contracts will take over. However, it stands for all the NATO countries to agree to such entry. It is at the General Assembly to authorize Iceland's government to confirm an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention. This is one of the most important issues that have been raised by the Generals in the long term in the matter of safety and protection. It is my great privilege to recommend the entrance of our friends to the Atlantic Community. I'd like to welcome Finn and Sweden aboard. May we succeed together in promoting signs of democracy, human rights, and peace throughout Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u42	A respectable president. I don't need a tenth of the events of the past few months and why we're here today discussing the potential involvement of Finland and Sweden into the Atlantic Community. It is important to respect the self - determination rights of nations that want to benefit from the same alliance that we are in, and I support these two countries to make decisions in foreign affairs as independent nations. However, the price of such involvement matters, but it will not be overlooked that the president of Turkey, the dictator Erdogan, has declared opposition to the applications and will no doubt have been subjected to brutal treatment. I hope the fear of Russia's war effort will not be so great that these sisters of ours would sacrifice the human rights of this group on the altar of security and therefore not bow down under this request of the president of Turkey to hand over people who have not shown any kind unless they were Kurds. It is vital that we not be tempted to make atonement for such dictators who use their approval as weapons against a nation that he despises on the basis of hatred in a minority of other ethnic backgrounds. If Finland and Sweden comply with Turkey's demands, it sets a dangerous example for other nations who may later request involvement in the alliance. If Erdogan succeeds, it sets a dangerous example for other nations who later wish to enter the alliance and could cause a setback in democratic values and human rights in the Western world. The General shall support Finland and Sweden in making personal decisions for their foreign affairs, but at the same time it is important to remind of the importance of having democratic values for all such decision making. It is proper to be concerned that democratic values and human rights are not sufficiently weighed within the Community, especially when countries such as Turkey are involved. Finally, I would like to emphasize the importance that in Iceland's foreign policy, there is always an increase in peace, against the increase in military structure, in Iceland or in our neighboring countries. It is a complicated goal in times of war, but it is important. Despite the present conditions in Europe, it is my sincere hope that this will happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u43	Madam President. The group of Independence Party rests solely on the members of Finland and Sweden and stresses that both countries will strengthen and strengthen the Atlantic alliance. There is a big news, world-reporting news now that Finland and Sweden are applying for the membership of NATO, a state that is among our closest friends, nations that have considered their best interests in defense and security by being outside NATO. This years of action changed suddenly with Russia's invasion war in Ukraine on February 24, U.S.A. That invasion changed the national will of these friends of ours in a time of wonder, within a few days. It was a unique time to be in Helsinki and to meet with the Finland State Department and the Finnish Foreign Minister, Haavisto Haavisto, with the General Department of State on May 18, on the same day that Finnar and Sweden formally attended membership in NATO. It was a big moment. The countries of Finland and Sweden that NATO will strengthen the defenses of the two countries and the rest of NATO, particularly in the northern part of Europe. The integrity of the alliance will be enhanced by the armies of our friends who know this world's territory well. Their expertise in the North promotes the common defenses of NATO. The core of our national security policy is our involvement in NATO and the United States. With the signature of our representative of the Washington Convention at the beginning of April 1949, and the defense agreement with the United States in May 1951, we were successfully taken for young republics, steps that have been of great importance to us for over 70 years. During the same period, we have had close cooperation with friends in the North countries and an important cooperation in the Northern Council. At that point, our defense and safety issues have not been discussed. It will likely change with Sweden and Finland's entrance to NATO, so the discussion will likely take several changes and in good cooperation with the Baltic States and northern Europe. As chairman of the National Council of NATO at the spring meeting of the NATO Council in Vilnius on Monday, I demanded a firm support for Iceland for Finland and Sweden's Member States at NATO. Finally, I would like to reiterate the exclusive support of a panel of the Independence Party for the applications of Finland and Sweden to NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u44	Madam President. I'd like to express my joy with the great unity that exists in the foreign committee on this matter and hope that there will be a rapid beginning here at the council. It was a very pleasant and historical moment to have a national foreign - language committee at the major milestones, historic milestones, when the Finns were applying for involvement in the Atlantic Community. Madam President. I'd like to look here closer. It is now that times can be dangerous to us Icelanders as nations. We have lived in peace despite the wars and sacrifices of most countries. Today, however, what is next to him may be blind, and that is a danger. We saw this clearly during the viral epidemic that moved to this country rapidly and definitely from the mainland, without our ability to build and we know all the consequences, health and economics. There's uncertainty in other areas. The defenses have become more unpredictable than ever since the Cold War ended. Defense challenges are greater than ever. We must make an effort to face that uncertainty. We need to ensure that in the country there are defenses, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces in security and protection and to meet Iceland's international commitments, as stated in the National Security Policy for Iceland, which was an important step taken six years ago by the General of the Council to meet a comprehensive national security policy. The basic elements involved in NATO and the social defense work in the United States. This is one of the basic leaders of the nation's independence and sovereignty. Iceland, a military country, depends on the peacefulness of the international community. I've said this before that Iceland is supposed to be involved in international peace. There we have a ruined opportunity, but at the same time we must be realistic and sensible when it comes to ourselves. History teaches us that everything in the world is fleeting. Russian military exercises on a border in Ukraine ended up with bloody wars, even though the best known ones considered invasion to be less likely. More than 3,000 citizens have died in Ukraine. I have twice visited the country after the war began, and I have seen with my own eyes the cruel and ruthless war effort of the Russians, all of whom we all condemned. The Russian military exercises are generally far higher than the NATO and the North Atlantic there, no exception. There, military building is growing in spite of Arctic hopes that Arctic tracks will not be the site of a new arms race and an increase in military structure. [[The president calls.]] President. Icelanders cannot expect an alliance to fulfill its commitment if we do not guarantee minimum reserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u45	Madam President. I can't imagine that the Russians with military force invaded another country. However, it is important for me to speak for peace and disarmament, especially during times of war, for which we now see so well in all news how war and war have affected civilians and we should do everything to prevent war. This is not the first time that a new state applies to its entry into NATO, and we have discussed this before at the council. In Iceland, however, the policy of working on the opinion of the majority of them is that we should stand outside of NATO has not changed. I would have counseled our cousins, who are now applying for our entry into NATO, to enter the national law on this matter, for this can leave a deep hurt among the nations. However, as I said before, those attending NATO in the past have come to Generalis, and I now respect the position of countries that have come to a different conclusion as to how these matters should be handled. I respect their self - determination about how they want to conduct their affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u46	Madam President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, thanking the members of the council here, for their excellent discussions, objective and strong. I'd also like to use this opportunity to thank the council, members of Congress, for their flexibility, to put the matter on schedule, and for a word on the progress of the case here. It matters. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson Einar said that it is important for us to use our voice in NATO and take an active role, and I agree with it. Hv. paritaprevir Vagn the son of Stefánsson mentioned that Ukraine was defending his independence, and this made him furious. paritaprevir So did Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. That's right. And as she mentioned, the Ukrainian people are fighting for our freedom. For this reason, I'd like to make it my point here and write it clearly that in this matter, I think it is very important that we maintain that Ukraine has to win this war on the basis of Ukraine. I don't know how they develop over the next few weeks or days or months about how the case somehow needs to end when possible fatigue may arise in Western countries. But to me it is quite clear that Ukraine has to work on Ukraine's terms. There is no doubt about the commitment of the government, either to the Atlantic Community or to the support of Finland and Sweden. And I'd like to mention that despite the fact that Finnar and Sweden have been out of the line of defense for all this time, the countries have not remained neutral in the past few decades, for which they have been closely cooperating with the Atlantic Alliance and have been very active and are therefore very clear about their role. It is true that we are an armyless, peace - loving people in the shelter of friends and alliances. That is why in this matter, though we say many of us say we celebrate the decision of Finn and Swía, especially when we consider that these are our greatest friends and alliances, cousin nations, and we are in a very close and close partnership with those nations - and I think it will also have a positive effect on the emphasis and values that we think will be able to provide added support within the Atlantic Community. I believe it will be for the very good of security and peace. However, they are also the decisions these nations have made with very cross - political support in that country. Therefore, while everyone is free to have all the opinions he might have, we have a problem of having strong opinions about whether the decision is right or wrong. As you look at how intense the attitudes have changed within those countries in just a few days after February 24, it may be difficult for us to put them in our shoes, to stay far away, and already to shelter, when they feel it on our own. They thus feel and decide on this, based on their being independent and sovereign nations, that they want into the world's most powerful security and protection alliance. They have made the decision to seek it, so I am very happy to find the loving support and warm words that these friends here receive and say as they do others. Senators have said: I warmly welcome these nations into the world's most powerful security and protection alliance. I'd like to finally wish. The Foreign Affairs Committee is successful in handling the matter and thanking not only for the flexibility of the council but also for setting the matter up and for the discussion that has been discussed here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Committee for Social Services with a bill to legalize the national health laws of the surgeon and public health, No. 41/2007, screening for file. The bill suggests that the command will be one of the medical records entrusted to the surgeon's office, as well as the national health laws, which include a database and an information system that contains personal details of an invitation to the screening, attendance and results of screening. Today, screening is the responsibility of the health care of the capital area for the application of the surgeon's office and responsible for the screening of a registry will require clear improvement in the law of the surgeon and public health and is aimed at bringing the radio more closely the role of a surgeon in the operation of the registry. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor's meeting. This is reported in a committee study of the 853 Senate document. Following the Commission's discussion of the case, it might be noted that no comments were made at the bill, but it was noted that the statistical attendance at the cervix of a screening report is wrong, but it is something that the committee cannot convert to the Senate's treatments, so the above statement suggests that more of the welfare committees would be accepted as unchanged than under the committee's opinion of literature, as well as the above. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir's daughter, Hafdís, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir's daughter, Jódís Skúladóttir, Oddný Gördur's Harðardóttir, and Óli Kárason Kállon. But as a dignified president, as mentioned earlier, it is stated in the committee's opinion that it is wrong to recommend statistics. Companies are presented in the cervical account, pointing out that and according to the method of accounting that is commonly used for calculation, the attendance rate of women in cervix and chest or cervix screens was higher in 2021 than shown in the report or 65% instead of 44%, but the correct figures can be drawn from the surgeon's report on cancer barrels in 2021, which was published at about the same time as the committee reviewed the case to the second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you. This is the case by a member of the Parliament and an executive of the Committee. It seems to me that this is the right step to take as the manager suggested, but if only at the highest rate. A senator could only tell me the position of personal protection in this case, and then perhaps the second question related to this and then the general screening of it as if it was being discussed with an exploratory registry needs to be considered, when it came to moving, a completely overhauling ex - health minister's mess. allows for screening from the cancer club to institutions and embrace none of it. But it was just a bad plan. As a result, I would like to ask, " Was there something under way that would affect them? ' screens of the file, will screening for a file, and in any case ensure more flow of information at the time of screening? I know we've talked a lot about this, as I'm saying, an overhauling failure during the last term of a health minister for the cervical screening process. But see what? The body of elders is in a more secure, clearer arrangement, more secure for women and has long been unsure? Well, maybe. A senator said that the situation is much better today and how to scan a registry? Can it enhance and ensure translucency and information flow in this delicate area?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for answering. Regarding the personal protection, a report with the bill bill says: It was written in the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the local surgeon's office and the health care of the capital area. In addition, legal plans were presented to personal protection and personal protection, not a review was made to the committee, and they did not make comments. This is where the scan will take place. Then, as the bill tells us, from the health - care of the capital area to the surgeon's office, there is, of course, a very important feature to establish new or to promote screening of the registry and information flows from those who conduct screening for the screens and then those who do their research and, of course, I would have really wanted to see this application and the responsibility of the land physician for screening of the registry come in much sooner in this process than this, so my opinion is a very important step to take here. The committee has discussed the changes here in cancerski process, and in effect, they have met with the health care of the capital area on the situation today and have followed this process without specifically discussing it with this bill. Then an answer will give you a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u50	Hv. paritaprevir It's a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator assumes that we receive only answers to our cervical screenings and the status it considers to be today. But there is some misunderstanding with me, but I was reading a review from Peritoneal Protection that corrects the need for full safety in the processing of the personal information in this requested registry and that it will clearly be defined in the Minister's Regulation, pardoned, by the permission of the President, the personal information allowed to be collected and preserved in the registry, and also stated by personal protection that it in the bill was conducted an assessment of the effect on personal protection and general impact evaluations in relation to the bill, and that the results were recorded in the report. Like you and me, like a croissant. A senator rightly pointed out, then taking personal protection until it feels that this is a good procedure, and might have as a pattern in the sentence of lawmakers, which must be specifically considered to be a protection fund so that fit rather returned a positive report, underlining that this procedure has been a practical procedure when it comes to doing this, yet it shows that it must be clearly defined in the Minister's Regulation which individual information must be permitted to collect and preserve in my registration. Just sharpening's the point. At the same time, a senator and the Committee must be careful when it comes to this sensitive personal information as personal protection is to be presented. Then there is the big issue and one of these big cases, which was in my opinion a disgrace to the government that it was how the cervix was conducted, and the insecurities that were unattracted into a large number of women's cervix scans. I know this case doesn't address it, but I would like to ask again and again, in what way the register is being screened. This can ensure transparent information for this population of women who are in and are being screened.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists and thanks the tip of the identity protection, a senator, foreman. This made it very important to see only the opinion presented in this opinion before the application of the identity protection, so that it is being maintained, the correct dates, but still very important, that this opinion is being made in terms of how the program is conducted or how the scan on a record increases transparency, is one of the main reasons why it remains critical here in a discussion of the application of applicants is that answers were not necessarily received to the health care provider that he did not have an operation to guide and inform women at screening. There's gonna be the transparency, and the whole information supply is gonna be much easier. There is, of course, a key factor in this being the key to the success of things, of visuality and carefulness, and of the performance of a series of samples or information sources, following the results of women's research, so this case is a major matter of progress. And because I came into it a little bit in the previous year, the commission got to him Ágúst Ingi Ágústsson, a director of the coordination center of cancer, screened at the beginning of February to review the tests and how they are worse, make a significant improvement in the action of counterwars. I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u52	Madam President. We've spoken a lot about screening, especially connected cancers, and we've been sending queries to the highest level. There have been a number of data on the screening process since we first discussed this case and therefore I would like to discuss it here only when we were working on this bill for screening, files, and I first wanted to mention a inquiry or an answer to an inquiry. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir sent for measures to improve the inclusion of women in cervical cancer screening as indicated by the President's permission: The screening for cervical cancer as well as for breast cancer has been below the standards for many years. It also states, with Presidential permission: That the percentage of women of foreign origin has increased substantially in Iceland in recent years and is known to be less involved in foreign women than Icelandic, and less women are expected to be screened because of the importance of these tools for preventing them. And, you see, there have been assessments of the importance of prevention in various areas of society, and there were known Nobel Prize winners in economics that presented the formula for every dollar spent on prevention at least 5 breakdown6K. in response, and it is important that when we have a health system that is accidentally cracked and we need to find ways to provide quality services for less money, it is precisely by investing in the prevention that we can improve the situation. It is screened as one of many of the devices we now have, not by the terrible consequences of these cancers and other diseases, but by early finding them, we are reducing our chances of suffering or dying from them and perhaps most of us know that our dentists are very hard to remind us of once a year's examination, coming into check, at any rate getting a little cleaning on our teeth, but we cannot get that from the health system. I can't get from my home doctor, you should come and take a look, see how the heart's beating and stuff, now it's amazing, too. What can be considered if e.g. you will have a blood test once a year, and you will feel that cholesterol or an early increase in blood sugar or other important things. You see, however, this is true of the general health system, not the dentist, or the health - care system. It is not until we are about to suffer from some symptoms we are supposed to meet with the doctors, as if we never went to the dentist unless the dentist was about to kill us and I talked about the other day with one woman who had just moved abroad and came to her home physician, actually waiting for less than two months to arrive. Her home doctor asked her: "What's wrong with you? She didn't say anything, no Danir. Then he asked a very strange look on his face. Then why are you here? And I'd like to take him out of the mountains for a year, and she really had to drive her family doctor into these preventive measures. Make them screened, e.g. simplified tests of blood? He used to check his blood sugar, cholesterol, stick, and stick, so there are lots of people who have gone to see some kind of work somewhere. Evil in your back, couldn't sleep, etc. which, in turn, led to a situation far more expensive and difficult to process. It is important that we find ways to prevent cancer, not just cancer, and many of these prevention measures are easy to perform that we already have ways to take e.g. Blood, samples, and process them, making it easy and quick. We don't even have to send them abroad, but it's also because we do these screenings at a speed and a convenient way for people, some people. You see, they are not sleeping since they have been screened out and until the conclusion has come, perhaps because they have had to deal with cancer before and are afraid that they may be back on track, and we have shown that we can do this completely in an organized way. You see, we did that for the last two years with the code. We were quick and easier to build a system where it was easy to make an appointment for a scan. It was the process around taking these screens and usually doing fast and easy research and telling people through the system like health products. We've already shown that we know how to do this. Still, it seems that we may take weeks to bring some results of such as cancer probes, but then we turn to screens, documenting that file is important because prevention is important. But it is so important that when we have such a large system, such as the health system, we are measuring how things are going. We can't fix or do things better, but we're not measuring. That's why, as I mentioned in the 1st discussed on this matter, files like those mentioned here have been on it in order to be able to observe, for example. The question of the inquiry I mentioned earlier from what? paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir. There are fewer opinions and less social groups at screening, screening, etc. Of course, these files and these data need to be processed so that they are not personal and that they are available and can be processed to figure out where we can go better because if we are going to understand where we are standing as a health system, we need to measure it. It's very easy for politicians, as they did here about a year ago, to say: Eyja. The health system must be more efficient. It's easy to make this statement if you're not measuring what you're doing, and that's how you know where you're going to fix things, and I believe that we all want to build even better health systems and the basis for building a better health system is that we use the data to know where a pot is broken. Where are we doing good things, and where are we doing things? Not as good? We're also supposed to look at it through these data. Where are we doing things better or worse than, e.g. We neighboring countries and our lands? It has often been said that the American Health System, one of the things they have learned, perhaps because they are driven by a very capitalist view, that they look at the data to know where to improve, where to increase prevention, and where to save money at the end while doing this, while getting this scan to the top, so as to carry on with the steps that have taken over the last two years on the floor. It contains, for example, screens for a file installed on the Internet relatively quickly. What may be most important is the screening of the document, the details of when you left, and the results, and all these items were readily available to patients, which is what you see. It's one thing to look at the data from the statistical part. It also looks at things, that the person can look at things and find out and learn from them. Now, our cutter's walking smart from those chats is also collecting lots of data on our behavior. You see, it's a little interesting what you can do when you combine data from medical records with technology such as talking. It contains e.g. major studies in which linking is being performed, e.g. those who suffer from heart problems with scientists who want to study the different names of patients'behavior, thereby leading to different parts of their heart. Thus, these data not only become part of the statistics but become part of the fourth industrial revolution by providing a new and better health system. Two honorable men.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his number and agrees with him on many matters. It is an enormous task to keep such a screen on a registry, and of course it is also important that personal information be protected and that we are not gathering sensitive personal information beyond need. Interestingly, though, let us not make more use of technology than we are doing in various health - care programs. Of course, it's also quite sad that we're putting this bill now when we see the serious consequences of the primacy that took place here during the last term when the whole service was taken from the cancer community and in some special way, distributed into health care facilities in some way, etc. and that the preaching system that had been run for decades with the cancer community had somehow just been flushed down because there is, of course, a huge amount of important information. But I wondered, and I would like to ask. A senator because he has a gang of whales. He is deeply concerned about personal protection: Would you think so? A senator supports this if we would update a file such as this, and the surgeon should also be screened for a file when it is due, for example. People who are at risk for suicide when they face mental problems and are e.g. receiving a variety of medicines because these trends in health care are actually being kept in the affected patient group? That's when an answer's answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Today we have enough technical and legal knowledge to build databases in such a way that characters, linking data, could not look at such statistically important information. Without me to see it, it was a good thing. Ólafsson But maybe I can tell that there was a man of some age who was similar to an estate. The senator discussed whether to do the same when it was due to happen, for example. Of course, mental - health issues are always such that special health data are something that we need to be really careful about how we do it. But it is also important to see what we can learn from these data, and I often mention an example of a chat program designed by a Danish pioneers, program hurting a club, which keeps women around their menstrual cycles. You have brought in tens of millions of women today to enter an indistinguishable source of information, more to include just research that reveals everything else and much more than has previously been possible for those patients who are not a patient of those who are enrolled into the data. It gives an answer to a second one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u55	Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer or the answer to my counter, wondering if we had exactly what to do with it. A senator here said that there were some sort of critical databases that people post on their own, and that's great, of course. But technology actually offers us quite a lot more and in the case of both this just outside of data but also a certain type of service. To be proclaimed. Of course, we are responsible for our health. Yes, yes, absolutely, but being regularly proclaimed in some kind of check. Of course, this is of great importance, and it is really unique that the cancer community had this grip on it because when they started this routine screening, the incidence of breast cancer was significantly reduced. Of course, since it has to be done now, colon cancer is being absorbed vigorously, and it is mentioned only in this matter, because it is the modern gangle that is now attacking the modern man and it is very important that we be awakened greatly. But I think we can have this much bigger field, on a variety of different kinds, in a variety of other types of health problems. I think that would save both misery. I think that would save us to get sick. I would also probably save us money to have this kind of central and electronic. It can be done. That's when an answer's answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u56	Senator, Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the second answer, and I would like to agree. A senator wrote about it. The very fact that preaching to screen people is very important, and I took an example of how our dentists are doing. I know that my dentist started texting me. It comes from the dentist's system automatically. So if I don't call in and order my dentist's appointment, he texted me. Then I'll land on a list that the dentist starts calling me, ask me to go and get my dentist. Is this just a business relationship too, making sure the customer comes on his own regularly, but like a dog? A senator pointed out that then we can be observing a lot of other things, but only cancer related to these tests and if we realize it, if we do it automatically, so that when a certain time has passed since you first got here: you're being pressed. You have not had a blood test for one year, have been invited to visit your health care provider, have a blood test, and if anything comes out of this, your doctor will give you a recent example of this. What did we do when we were running bites out of coy? Yes, the name one landed on a list because you've been close to someone. Then we were given a short butt here in a kwe test, and most of us showed up and we got the results a few hours later. It's amazing what you can do when you want to keep driving.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a good speaker, and I have noticed that this cause seems to be close to him before speaking in this matter. I decided that he mentioned the United States in his speech and after having been there for a few years myself, and I can agree with what he mentioned in that context. But I'm a little concerned that I support this case and the steps that are being taken, but extracurricular and data in order to or in order to serve a purpose that, of course, requires that policy development be together to build up the trust of those to whom the service is to enjoy. And because this was the case with foreign women or women of foreign origin, of course it's a fact. However, it is also a fact of how this government's policies affected women's performance at screening and, at the same time, how these policies affect women's health, screening, and health are affected directly by policy development. I'm just gonna let me say it. I just wanted to come up to mention that point of view. How important it is to keep our eyes on the evidence and work out how to push people around! However, governments must show the responsibility of their own personal decisions, decisions, and presentations in such ways that they do not compromise confidence and confidence in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I couldn't agree more. Senator. It was some wise person who said that at one time. It takes years to build trust. It'll take a few seconds to lose. I'm sorry, Mr President, but I don't know how to quote. You see, when people feel that they can't trust that they are doing good work when they watch as it happened during a period of time, when data were missing and other things weren't going to work together for months, the trust that people have in the system collapses, and unfortunately it is that we have lost that trust means that we need to work hard in the next few years to rebuild that trust. Then you better have some good work. That's right and good policy, this is being used to improve the system. It's not enough just to collect data for the sake of the data. It's also a little dangerous to be moving the data, moving it between who to handle the data, holding them around because we often lose older data, which can lead to our not seeing the whole picture, only since we got data. It gives an answer to a second one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. Regarding the evidence, it is also a fact that no doubt refers to more illnesses than cancer, which are believed to increase in the next 15 years, in the next 15 years, or that it will have social cancer, up to 30%. This is the information that has been provided by the Cancer Society, the director of the Society, and there is, of course, a change in society that will have a major impact on everything but especially on the health system, and we may be well accustomed to it. A pandemic is actually talking about how we benefit from our health - care system. We are blessed to be at the site of medical science, and the health system is increasingly able to prevent cancer, improve the effectiveness of treatment, so we have more live cancers. However, it is also a challenge that when the increase becomes intense, and I have found it interesting to read that countries each begin to develop cancer, programmes that cover all factors, prevention, treatment, and life after, the quality of life, etc. I might have wanted to see that in this case because we're now talking about a screening file, that would be a more complete view. Shivers. The file's great, it's great, as far as it goes. This would have been such a perfect opportunity for a new health minister to take a bigger step. The answer will be the second. Hv. paritaprevir Gísli.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u60	Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. Once again, I wholeheartedly agree. Senator. It is my hope when we discussed this matter here for a discussion of 1st. Then it was the highest. In this room, a health minister listened to the suggestions and concerns that other members of the council had, and I wrote them down and nodded. All of these are examples of the possibility of listening and I agree that having a whole plan is very important, and it needs to take on both different types of cancers, prevention such as screening but also, and I noticed only today that they are running a campaign in the power of a larger group of young people who have developed cancer. We also need to consider that younger people are also getting cancer, and we need to make it easier for young people who may have a family history of cancer and other things to allow them to run orders regularly despite not being at the age of age that common tests are holding. I think it's very important that the answers are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u61	Mrs. President, Gunnlaugsdóttir, I'm on the Senate welfare committee and I've been watching and participating in this business, and I'm an agent in the hearing. My name is not on a committee party, but I support this case as presented here, the purpose of the screening registry services, and I believe it is very important that there is a clear frame of view, and I mentioned it in my speech here in the first discussion on the subject that it surprised me to read a paper on the subject that it was explaining the improvement in this relationship. But I wanted to reiterate what I've mentioned earlier in this relationship, which I think is important when we're discussing the screening tests for cancer, that it is based on the report that it has been decided to attack on colon and rectal cancer screens and that I miss it, and that I would have found that these steps and plans were designed for timeliness to be developed to any group. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gísli by Rafnur Ólafsson, it was a pleasure to listen and listen to the highest degree. A health minister discussing this matter when he recommended it, and he handled it carefully. However, I still feel that governments are being focused on this, that it is more than just planning and goal for them to succeed. Then there must be time set, where groups will be started, where the budget will be, etc. I mentioned oncology plans in the past, but as I mentioned over the decades, international institutions have encouraged the countries to develop the oncology program that covers these global ideologies on how their communities and health systems provide protection in this way or prevent cancer, how I can pray as a society may offer the best possible treatment and, of course, reduce the burden of social and health cancers and ensure the best quality of life and survival for the living. Those who have gone through treatment, and I've also talked about it before in this regard that I can hardly feel able to come up here to discuss testing the registry without having a discussion of cancer, the Department of the Land Hospital. The situation has been revealed for a long time and the need for a new day's department, blood and cancer cures at the Land Hospital, and I think that we or anyone with experience in attending that department will be able to agree that the situation there could certainly be much better. I remember reading an article by the director of the cancer club. It encouraged the government during the reign of government policy, to handle these matters in a government contract simply or to display a vision of a new government and ideologies about such a holistic ideologies in this issue. I'm going to let me mention again that I'd wanted to see it happen then when the government renewed the vow and now in relation to this case at the highest level. Health Minister that it had been followed by the ideologies and measures for cancer, plans for dating. It may be just a matter of improving the situation in behalf of patients and staff and hospital managers and reviewing that it has been made officially known that the cancer community has agreed to place, such as the amount given to this project, with the guidance of the government's putting it in first place. That's a factor of 450 billion in cancer society. K. to encourage the use of funding by the government. But I'm happy with this case and, as I say, I believe that it is becoming reality, and I wanted to come up first and to mention it, in view of the fact that I am an officer on that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u62	A tenth part of the program, health care, the management of Hospitals, Hospitals, and Hospitals is covered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u63	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the NTSB's health care committee for a bill to correct health care legislation, No. 40/2007, the board of Hospital Management. The bill suggests changes in health care laws, No. 40/2007, whose goal is to appoint professional management over Hospitals to the north. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the management of land hospitals, which is the largest health - care organization in the country, by legally establishing the arrangement for a government to be appointed over the hospital, which is responsible for securing further professional management of the hospital. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor's meeting and reviewed the comments given to her. This is reported in a committee study conducted on a Senate document following a discussion by the Committee. It wants more than a few items to be taken into consideration. The committee discussed various viewpoints regarding the proposals and order of the directors and the hearing officer, but the bill assumes that a Regulation shall be established that the role and responsibility of the administration should be further established. In addition, it is expected that the minister will submit a letter to the management board and appoint a commission to the management board which should be paid by the Agency's funds. In this regard, the greater part stresses that the Ministry remembers that it would be desirable for an audience to be appointed by a staff agency in the hospital and Ásgeir to have an audience in the board, not to be in charge and position within the hospital, while being a representative of the staff at the board. The more part shows that it is normal to be highly qualified for executives and not to be more reasonable than is recommended in part - law. In the third paragraph of paragraph 1, paragraph 3. The bill shows that in the board of directors, there are individuals who, in fact, may be individuals. has knowledge of health and health-class education in the field of science. The committee gave a perspective on the importance of this provision, but it was noted that the University of Iceland was the person who had all the basic subjects requiring application in the hospital as well as in the science branch and should therefore be represented or placed in charge. The greater part of the matter depends on the importance of ordering to emphasize that there will be knowledge and a vision of science, study and life, recent medical classes, and, as the law of No. 90/2020, for the change in health care law, was included in a new programme on health care matters instituted by the head of the health care facility and the director of health care institutions to seek advice on important health care and health care matters which are considered by the National Competent Authority. At that time, the personnel assigned to differ in professions within the normal field, and a Regulation has been set up to 1111 2020, which deals with the directive than with Article 4. This bill we deal with here is suggested as a minister to ship, as well as to use user councils in the council. If the seven representatives of the user appointed under the appointing of an active patient organisation are asked to provide counselling and maintenance to ensure that the user's viewpoint is considered on decision-making and management of health centres. For the Committee, criticism from patient groups was found to consult with governments that did not really guarantee the access of users in the same way as the direct introduction of administration and communication obligations were not sufficiently defined. The majority consider it to be a new bill that the Council of Users should be strictly important and emphasised that certain tasks and/or cases that the management board should consult with the user council should be addressed to the Ministry of Health and Ministers to identify this role better. The majority of them consider it important to have a regular history of patients' plans and emphasize that management with user advice should be consulted with a decision-making guide on factors that are of particular concern to patients' particular interests. Finally, the majority believe that it is normal for the Ministry to monitor the experience of a recent professional consultation, as stated earlier, and the user council that will be implemented. If this bill becomes legal and the secretary uses regulations to ensure the objective of effective consultations. This encourages the greater percentage of the Ministry of Health to monitor the development of international consultations with employees and users and emphasizes that experience reveals that other ways of speaking are better handled if further adjustments are made. Then I'm going to turn the committee into a new proposal. First, the majority suggest a change in the subject of an audience officer. The committee concluded that it was unusual for a non-selector representatives to be members of a government rather than an audience. The majority feel that this concept of use can lead to a misunderstanding and therefore suggests a change in the identity of a representative of the staff as an officer. Second, there is a change in the manner in which directors should be hired. The committee found that in the production of the bill it was considered that the definition of the terms of the administration should define the recruitment of directors and the greater parts that the objective of the bill should be controlled. This will highlight the importance of the meeting of the Board of Directors, the recruitment of directors in the manner presented here in clarifying the interaction and responsibility of the management, executives and Ministers. Thus, the majority suggest a 1st point. Count 9. The law adds a new court order that the Minister of Directors of Land Hospital will be appointed to the age of five at the same time. The suggestions given is the suggestion that the greater part suggests. The majority suggest two technical changes that do not require special coverage. According to the above, a greater proportion of welfare committees are responsible for the approval of the bill with the changes presented in the Committee but with the opinion of a greater part of the social committee of publications, as well as the above. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friurk's Friðriksson, Guðrún Hursteinsdótttir, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Orri Páll the son of Jóhannsson, and Óli Björn the son of Kárason. A respectable president. Just a few more words. I have here explained the opinion of a greater part of the health committee regarding the opinion of a bill to correct a change in health care law, No. 40/2007, for the management of Hospital Hospitals, but I want to finally insist that in the Treaty for the State Cohesion Group, Independence Class, and Left Forces, the status and role of Land Hospital will be supported for this purpose by a professional government appointed over the hospital to the north. That is why this bill suggests the changes here attributed to the management board and is intended to establish a government that strengthens the hospital in its role as the largest health institution in the country, and the one on this planet has high expectations that professional management will prolong the Hospital's role. A respectable president. So many were words. That's what it'll do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u64	Yeah, I'm on top of it. President. I want to thank you. A senator, Sævar's models, Anna Sævarsdóttir's Line, before this story, and really. I'm glad it's taken that step. We in my category suggested in the last term that it would be taken this way and that it will be controlled over the Land Hospital and since I have not dived much into this bill, but was Kreta me through it this day I'd like to ask the senator what a man should say, what such a thing is expected to be, in view of the position that the Landstas has been in the past few years, and it seems to have failed many times to drive the hospital in a way that a man can now say, in effect, in a sense, reasonable sense, because of a number of things have come up. Then the question is, What can the senator tell me that here this change will result in?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson's son. I'd like to start by saying I believe that many things in the management of the Land Hospital are going very well, and we'll see it, of course, through a co, know how things, positive things, just amazing things happened from day to day, but on the other hand, we've been talking about it before in the Senate hall and, like, in the course of time. A senator came on, discussed ways to promote the administration, perhaps getting more professionals into the management board, a role behind the director's office, and that is what this bill is designed to do, to promote the role, as well as to explain how to consult the personnel representative of the staff with a representative of the users, and to get more. People on the project are very precious and can become very precious to the one who is then in the director of the Land Hospital, and thus hospitals can grow to the top of their role as the largest health organization in the country, as well as, of course, in daily activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u66	It gives an answer to a second one. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson. V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I want to agree with it, and maybe I'll correct it if there's any misunderstanding about the hospital being not doing its best when I talked about properly earlier, that it's totally crystal clear that men are trying to do things the best they can. But it hasn't worked out as perhaps expectations are, and I've often said it, both in speeches and in publications, that there are natural advances in health matters in technology and science and medicine, so the pressures are intense, just to meet these changes, and it requires more money and more management, so it really is time to take some step to ease the pressure on the manager. So I came to see what this is all about in the big movie, and just as I read about it earlier, it's going to be a good look at how these things are going to turn out, and it's just gonna be exciting to keep an eye on it, and I just want to wish Land hospital all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u67	No, no, no. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later said that it did not have a direct question, but it sounds to me that he would agree that he saw eyes more than an eye and that he would get more people with knowledge, professional knowledge, as mentioned, e.g. in the Commission opinion and in the paper with the bill, which has a special view of the design, the research and science and education that it matters, of course, so that there are different priorities for the management board, depending on the main issues involved, and thus increasing the one and adding to the expertise that the director has at one time, so there may be differences with what is being looked into the board. That's how I see it. That's the best I remember. A minister has considered the matter in his advance. Butts are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u68	Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. I just wanted a quick, brief talk here. I gave a long talk in the first discussion of this matter, and it is good to note that the Honorable Health Committee has taken into account some of the points we were pointing out in her committee party. But there are still two things I would like to mention, and hopefully it's something called the Honorable Health Committee, or at least one that sits on it is just the first thing in parsity. 2 mg. The bill. It says, with the permission of a president: The management of persons with knowledge of business and management plans for health and scientific research on health and health professions and on official administrative and administrative policies. Now I don't know exactly how such a song works, but I don't see it or if there's a lot in it for individuals who meet all these requirements at all times. But it may just be me reading out of the Law text, but we also received a tip as Minister of the Supreme Minister. Actually, it didn't seem to have fallen. It's that we are in the time of great change and high digital revolution, and then it's a question of having any member of the board who even had experience in digital revolution, that it might be very strong for the government to have in these times not that we may be able to improve it before the next government, because it remains for two years. The other subjects that we pointed to and discussed very much, it seems, have been able to find its way into a new set of ideas from well, four o'clock. The senators give me four of them down. Senators may be on welfare committees as less than a fraction, but there is an adjustment in what is spoken of as being done by the two officers of the staff. But there was also something else that we talked about here in question 1 and it was to add one agent of user advice that audiences also like this, I just want to encourage those of the government groups to think this through a little bit, whether this isn't just a good adjustment, even though four members of the government stand up for the program. It is important that users also have access, shown in a number of administrations in many institutions around the world that this is a very important step forward. Or I would like to thank a respected welfare committee for a job well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u69	Madam President. We're discussing a case in the management of our Hospital, a case that has been very regular in recent years, even decades, actually since it was, because I think in 2007 that was last operating over the hospital and put down the years earlier has been mentioned, and I think it has just promised the Government Committee of the Hospital, which was with the people for some time. But since then, it has been such a matter that has developed from time to time. I'm one of those who thought it was a good thing to put control of the hospital. This is, of course, a unit that has an enormous amount of money, complex activity, and surveillance role for our senators, who have the legal authority, and then with various kinds of surveillance roles, has often been quite complex when it comes to the complex activities of this important organization and this vertebral device in the health system. But this may be the government of the Land Hospital, and it has been so ongoing in the discussion of these matters that, as I say, was a few. But it's not always clear what people mean by this. It is what people envision that such a government can accomplish. Some people say it's primarily, and now I'm not necessarily referring to this particular bill. I may come to that right, but this in general since being people is their idea that they should put control of the Land Hospital, which plays a role similar to partners, governments, or governments over the companies. This is where you do well from month to month. Policy measures and policy follow-up are followed, and the same unit meets owners' targets and then supervises the main organisations, at least Director and according to the experiences of others. It's like this to kill someone in the main part of the world. Then there are others who believe in the government of the Hospital that it should be primarily designed to be professionally supervised by the very complex and intricate activities of the hospital, saying that they should be people with that knowledge, skills, and experience, and some talk about because we are a few people. And it is not necessarily so that we have people who are free or who are not already employed in the hospital, that even professional people are consulted abroad. Others, however, point out that such a government is primarily to care for the interests of users in the sense that it should ensure contact between users in various departments and services and ensure that it is working to the best of its means. And there are still others who say that someone like that needs control in order to protect the interests of employees. Because there has been little effort in the news about the tiny staff that somehow doesn't see what they're doing on the project and has grown weary. So I don't use strong words to say that their complaints and tips are accepted or understood. This is a fairly diverse project, all of it important but very varied, and it is in nature that there is no place for any one government to fulfill all of this, and then we may be at the point, so I witness to the director of the Land Hospital from the news of the day, where the Runólfur Pálsson says that there is no room for one health care, the chaos and I am about to give a heart to the director so that these words, the chaos, will not be solved by the management of a land hospital, although the Landsaholic plays a key role in our health system. I think it might be said that part of the problem faced by the staff and management of the Lands Hospital and users can be attributed to this crisis. Perhaps we should consider the management of our health system, but now we have it not true? She's just not necessarily finishing things up, and here, of course, I'm referring to the highest. Government. It is now outcast, but this is what the governor of the Land Hospital says and will do nothing beyond the fact that the hospital's problem is more serious and huge, but it needs to define its role better, and it is so interesting that I can say that a respectable director speaks of this organization, a failure that has been for many years in the medical service, and that it is not what is mentioned in the capital area. It is interesting that all of us agree that in many parts of the country, there is no particularly fat horse, often from health care, which is otherwise the problem they face when people are lacking, and they lack access to this mess that the Director of Hospital talks about in the medical system, especially here in the capital area. It may crystallize in the position of a land hospital that lives on the one side of this local hospital that lives right here in the southwestern corner and then a special hospital for the whole country, something that makes the hospital's position incredibly complex, which makes it abstinent while it's just as untransparent and it actually gives us a very difficult comparison with other hospitals abroad, also complex because it is a very specific situation. I'm not saying there's no place to be found here spitin' somewhere in the North countries, maybe especially slowly and it's been in the past. But it does not change that we are often comparing hospitals, whether we want to compare the work of the hospitals or the financial status, the financing or the operation, and then we are comparing apples and oranges because we are faced with this position, so we are in time to set aside what this government should do, and it comes to the case itself and the committee party that it is primarily intended to change the law on health care to create space for such procedures? Yes, it is. It is the number of people to sit in it, and I'm not going to consider that number, five, seven, nine, and other things are left in the Regulation. Isn't it? Then I'm back to who puts the regulations? Yes, there is a health minister, so we are somehow, still sitting in this window, trying to move this thing around somehow. But we're still going to be involved in this management of professionals, and we're going to be someone with understanding and knowledge of business, and then we're gonna talk about and there's an audience agent, like the change in the motion of the greater part, and then we're going to have a smaller proposal for an audience from a group of users. Me. This is all important to hear the voices of these representatives when it comes to the operation of the hospital, and it is also important that they be there but in the picture. But I intend to accept, who really know how to sit in a government where it's really intended to run a business. We've got a lot of things to do with actually checking that at that table, agents are always sitting in front of the staff. It just lies the object's nature, so I'd count at least It is important that there be some distinction between whether they are always an agent of an audience on a particular project or that there is actually a growing number of such control. And it's also known that there's a bigger government, and it can be 11 people who have a bigger list of projects that may suggest that what I've been talking about in some way. It is a bioavailability, users, activities, and other such and financial activities, but then there is the simplifying process, so it actually becomes a complicated process. But it's part of this big government that has this core business, and it doesn't include employees. This isn't necessarily a suggestion from me far away. I'm just wondering about it because what I say stays a little behind by being willing to accept it and the belief that such a government could be a good thing, it's still a huge open and the key decisions, i.e. about who's ordering and what the list of projects is. He's still left behind in the hands of a minister I would have, e.g. felt that, in part, the government was making these decisions. So I think it's going to be like an eternity, an eternal, expensive assembly. But I say, "Go looking forward to the discussion. " I know there's quite a lot of people on the rosary, people on a well-being committee, something I don't do, so I'm just going to learn from the people who have been here and continue working this case. But just so I'll finish to agree with this matter, in favor of it, but perhaps I would have liked to see in some way just sharper understanding and sharper lines that the real role of this government is, and hence, as well as much as what our expectations are for the most abundant form in which we and our health systems, the Landspite, are equipped with ships of such a government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u70	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to talk only about the situation at the Land Hospital, perhaps mainly the position under the control of him, as the government will face an extremely difficult task if it is observed, and this order will not solve the basic problem of the Land Hospital, which is the failure of the hospital's operating staff. The situation is very clear for the hospital managers, both those who once lived there and those who are new ones. We see this, we who are sitting on a prestigious budget board right now, last in their review of the government budget with a discussion, and of course, it is often so that money can be better handled, and probably one of the biggest projects of this administration is to have a better perspective on how to use it better. However, it is particularly difficult when there is an underlying lack of financial resources. We've made sure that there is a underlying problem. There's a shortage of extracurricular instruments. There is also the possibility that people are simply exhausted from Kuwait. The hospital's financing has been extremely difficult. It is repeated that the amount of money that has been put into hospital and health systems without taking into account the cutbacks of the time, that we are working out a tremendous depression in business and investment at the hospital, an increase in nursing weight that is growing, and people are growing up here as well. There are new and more expensive projects that have been transferred to the Land Hospital, and we have seen calculations that take this nursing weight into account, including which Gylfi Zoëga, professor of economics at the University of Iceland, has shown that if we look at such standards as nursing weight and new projects, we have actually dropped funding to the hospital in the financial program we are now looking at and touching the hospital because there is a huge joint that is, in fact, a hospital service that is nearly 86% funding. At the National Hospital, 1.5% of annual growth in hospital services is expected over a period of 2027 financial programs, although it is known that this proportion is far below the necessary physical growth of 1.5%. The hospital has spoken about 2.5%, saying in its review that it is the number needed to prevent the hospital's underlying problems from evaporating, winding up something that thus controls the way. It is known that a simple extrapolation in the process of aging. Aggravated nursing weight means at least A 2.5% increase per year, so this is static. This is the statistics we should know, and it is not solved in the current government programme. Of course, this makes it very difficult for the hospital to engage in anything but a basic project. They were always getting out of the boat. Then many comments are made to the hospital administrator that it takes long - term dating and, in fact, a long - term development. it is considered the importance of being in charge of the hospital to facilitate such policies. The problem, however, is that if this financing model continues to exist, we will only have the responsibility of providing water out of the boat, to draw water out of the boat if they have no long - term security. At this point, it is so important that while discussing such discussions, the hospital's management, there is also some debate about the major challenges involved in health care. This is what the hospital's manager wants. They want this exact space for its long-term policy development because it is so difficult to plan when the funding is blurred and this is the key to a change that must be seen, and we see it only black in current government plans. That's going to change very little. A respectable president. About a quarter of a beds in the Land Hospital are now being used in aging service. There is nowhere, however, the normal range of aging services in the hospital should be available. It has been called for a better identification of the projects, and this will no doubt be the responsibility for having this conversation with the government, the nature of the project. The hospital should care for and the funds to be followed because the National Hospital is facing a financial shortage of nursing homes and the building up of those who thus come under greater pressure from the Land Hospital at the Land Hospital. But the interesting thing about this inadequacy is that the savings of the so - called savings, which is just a delay in the cost that rises. However, the amount of savings available by avoiding the use of medical space and by continuing to use the hospital's blow will make more money for the hospital. We always have to accept those who would not be able to graduate. They will simply not be able to graduate these individuals, but they will have no extra money to care for, despite the fact that savings are in other parts of the system, as unwise as they are. This may be the most interesting thing in connection with a new report that happened to me as the day of health because we are told about this blessed process. It showed that the new Landskeeper was already involved in the privacy of the new Land Hospital, which is not yet finished, is already in the process of renting if there were not to be an investment in long-term care resources, and it is reported in the report to have to add 240 supplies for long-term care of patients such as home - care, nursing room care, and that the hospital would not be reinvented as soon as it will open and save in such operations in an operation saying: "This is a room that will not appear immediately but will be complete for the health care of one billion years. " 9 billion at Land Hospital, 9 billion dollars. This is about 10% of what runs to the Land Hospital each year for the 9 billion that could be saved by these measures. So you wonder, " Is this not one or one of the things that must be discussed in a comprehensive review of the health system and, together with the expected government government administration here, that there is room to attack such measures that can release, free the Land Hospital from this straitjacket charge in the hospital? ' But there's nothing to it on the financial committee, none of this space in the plagiar government. Comments from Mckinsey are not taken into account, although they are supposed to save money, many billions of dollars. In fact, after 223 C.E., almost no funding is available in the government's budget for new living space, and I simply wondered what this will do to the goals being set up by a controlled government, including. to make better use of funding if the system simply does not play along when it is known that it is the long, most expensive, to have people in the land hospital in relation to other spaces. In fact, I believe in the second session of a financial program, which will quickly come up here, allowing more funding for the hospital simply to cover the basic business in order to reduce the expense, since there is no room for older ones to leave the hospital. And I just want to say, of course, that we equal people are going to be very careful about whether funding is now being introduced into a financial program to support the building of the nurses who have been promised by governments and including. Explained in a government covenant that this matter, including one, is a prerequisite for this matter. this case we're discussing here today, is actually understanding something, that the hospital can be properly run, and the government can create real future proposals, that the frame around the health system is all right because the Landspike doesn't operate on its own but in a system that needs to be functioning. I would also like to draw attention to what is being discussed today. I'm on the honour board and I'm involved in the affairs of the Land Hospital. Directly, the community service agency has also expressed concern that services contracts for nursing homes, which have recently been made up of funds in the latest financial programme. This will not change as much as it will likely have an operation that will reduce the ability of these households to receive people, resulting in the relief of the problems and costs at the Land Hospital, so I sincerely hope to the highest degree. Secretary of health and the highest. The government is looking at these factors, and we see funding there coming in the 2nd of that matter, and at the end, I just want to say that I mention this aspect of financing, especially because it's the highest. In the media, a health minister has declared that there is no foundation for solving the problem at the hospital when there are reports of disclosures. who have come in because of dissatisfaction, that the financing doesn't stand. But it just doesn't seem right. A respectable president. It seemed like a beach of capital. We have plenty of notes and notes that also focus on government long - term plans and promises to land hospital that show black and white that this is building capitals. I think it's important to keep this up, a respectable president, so to speak, as discussed here today, that the Government of the Land Hospital doesn't get the look and the year it has come up with a solution to the land hospital problems, and without financial support. This is a small part of a major problem and the health - care problem that will not be solved at the Land Hospital on the edge. It takes real changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u71	Yes, Madam President, I would like to thank you. A senator was eager to give a very extensive, excellent talk, and I liked putting things or listening to what was said. A senator putting it in the context of the hospital's being just a part of a bigger system, and it needs a lot of things. Of course, institutions and hospital services need to be correct, and policy measures from government policy at any given time also need to be good for the hospital to work. The talk about nursing homes was discussed here, and of course, we have been seeing a lot of news because people cannot get into the hospital because they simply need space. This is a problem that has been in with people for a long time. There is no question about it - it should be injected and corrected. To some extent, the problem is a well - known size. You always wonder about the things with your powers and because I cut at the bottom of my head. The senator may have raised this question, of course, because we have heard a number of talks, many interviews with government officials with current health ministers, former health ministers, who are promised and testified, whether the senator has any explanation that the benefits are not more than they are. Now it is a lack of some political authority and talked about capitalism. At times, they have explained that they simply don't want people to live in nursing homes and other things, and I might want to go inside. A member of the council, whether this explanation by the government, to form a design, to hold water, or to see if it is simply too much, simply to lack political vision, and some forethought for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u72	South District, Kristina frost. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for the inquiry. Yes, this is the big question, and this applies to so much of the current government financial program, which is nothing more than a document that has been extrapolated to not even the full population growth but to some extent just system-based numbers. There is really no political policy in this record. Of course, what surprises you is when you hear mistakes, not just speech at the top. A minister says that we're talking about a raid, that it's being strengthened by a nursing home, that we're boasting that it's being set up, that there's a billion people in nursing homes operating. Just before Christmas break, there was an enormous problem with the adjustment of the basic problem, but it is also in line with the Ministry of Health that they are equally surprised that these amounts have been taken out. There was always a time when nursing care should be financed for this ideal period when it is in a government contract to be talking about this as a long - term plan or to improve other options. The problem is that the financial agenda and policy of the government when it comes to the management of the state funds, being developed in a very narrow manner at the Ministry of finance, is not being carried out by people who have expertise in the Ministry of Health that within the Ministry it is whatever the cost is, valuate certain resources over time, and say, "This is what we have to do, in fact, what we have to do. ' to save expenses at the Hospital to 10, 15, 20. That's why it needs funding now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The secretary of finance has decided that expenses can only grow x percent per year, and he is not counting on the income side and that he simply funded the necessary bones in the system. It's simply the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u73	Senator of the Southwestern District, Sigmar Guðmundsson with us. Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir President Kristrún's daughter for her answer and the conversation. Now, of course, that's the way you've heard it. The minister of finance has many talks, and he did so especially during the epidemic that the hospital's problems were not a lack of financial resources but were staff, and hearing the highest level was always a bit of interesting. The minister repeatedly mentions it, and by doing so, he seemed to be slightly removing certain problems and responsibilities because if it is, it doesn't have money, but just staff are responsible, of course. Must have been the ones who have been in control of the government for a while since 2013. The political party that has been more and less in power here all the time of the republic. He must be responsible for the arrangement that makes it possible for people to be not willing to work in this amazingly wonderful institution and an important institution that all of us must want to nurture so much as to see, to read somehow, so that it doesn't matter in themselves on the basis of responsibility whether there is a lack of capital or lack of staff. The responsibility of the government is always that humans cannot jump from one factor to the other and leave themselves somehow in such a way. But I wonder, there's also been a little talk about it in all of this. It's that it's just the chimney in general at the hospital, that it's some kind of prerogative that you can achieve such a better use of money and other things. I might have intended to introduce the senator to some extent that he would agree with it as the highest. A financial minister has been saying that the problem is somehow more systematic in the hospital rather than financial or otherwise. A senator agrees with me that whether it's a matter of character or capital, the responsibility of the government remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u74	Which city of Reykjavík, south toll files of the Thorsteinsdótttir? A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. On the road, I hear it's a lack of staff, not a lack of capital. Of course, you have to think about how we were able to make the Land Hospital, in effect, put it in the position that it is not ideal for many to work there. We have also heard from hospital managers and staff staff who are overly negative. There would be many who would, of course, be very happy who are working there. The fact is, though, that such pressures make people difficult, and what happens under these extreme pressures is that people are faced with panic if people make mistakes, and people just don't want to be invited to work in such an environment. But today's lack of staff is my opinion as a result of the long - term failure in the hospital, which makes it a place to live where people are working and the facilities are inadequate. It also requires faster running because it makes people feel more pressured and less interested in working there, so it is the long - term task of getting more people to show this interest. It is not, however, just about graduates in the medical system, but we know that there are hundreds of them to form nurses who have the ability, the education of knowledge to work in the hospital but who have chosen not to do so, and in this context, we must think of paid stress and, in effect, the possibility of working them only slightly less for similar wages that have been tried to do better shift work for a period of time. But it has not been financed, so I can't speak beyond that answer. But I'm going to stay on the ground. Although money will never solve it, we must wonder. There can always be a knot that can only be financed, at least will cut them into pieces, and a real investment needs to be put into better employment conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u75	A respectable president. The conditions of the past few weeks have been worse than ever. The emergency room. More people wait for hospitalisation at the same time as they leave the staff. These are the words of Hjalti Björnsson's active physician in the emergency department of the Land Hospital. There is no room available for people who need to be found, he says, and dozens of patients have to wait at the emergency room for an incompetent period. This is no new news we hear this emergency, only a few weeks or a few months from now. We're kind of so used to it. You can pick up headlines about this, and if we just look at the numbers then. This may not surprise anyone. This emergency ship was such that over the past few years, and decades, the number of hospitals has steadily decreased compared with the population in Iceland in 335 per 100,000 people, which in 2019 were 227. This happened as the percentage of older people, most required at hospital service, ranged from 11.5% of total population in Iceland to 14.2% and that happened as well. While there was an explosion in the arrival of tourists in the country, which, of course, put great pressure on the emergency unit of the Land Hospital, especially during the summers as we see now, and at the same time nursing hosts have sat on their backs, the nursing business has been overcrowded, as we then received a detailed report about now just in previous beds. The absolute bioavailability in hospitals has been about 100%. This was even a long time before a pandemic, but also and Iceland is one of the European countries in which there is room for intensive care compared with the population and in a group of European countries with the highest use of hospitals. It's all there is to it, and this here is not a sign of some terrible government problem at the hospital. This is merely a testimony to the lack of funds and the lack of staff, and if we just look at real progress into land hospital management, we'll see that in recent years they've just barely made progress. This, of course, is what needs attention. It is not merely a look at some nameless rise and a complete disclosure of it to all the underlying factors, numbers of people and other staff find this on their own. This is no coincidence that we hear such a cry of emergency. It is simply a matter of financing our health. We are a rapidly growing society that becomes more complex and complex, new and new health challenges, and the financial contributions into the system simply do not reflect them. I can't watch this anymore, I'm telling you that an acute nurse on Facebook. It describes an inhuman stress and situation in which there is no adequate way to treat patients. I've waited and hoped things will change and be okay. But it just gets worse. She quit. She can't do any more. She is not the only Jón Magnús Kristjánsson, former hospital doctor at the emergency room, writes the chronic stress and guilt over not being able to provide properly for patients who seek emergency care, drive away more and more of my wonderful colleagues. How does the government respond to such a state? The situation that is repeatedly warned? Is the government planning to take the root of the graduation problem at the Land Hospital by increasing the number of nurses, e.g. or are there revolutions in home service and nursing? Are we seeing the money go there? We're seeing some of the major improvements here so that here we can solve this graduation problem, so called, we're seeing something like that. build up a wide variety of homemaking options for older people. See increased stock supply e.g. Does it slip into something like that? No, the government's going into a huge effort to improve the working conditions. Conditions in the health system make it more desirable for the health. Educated people working in Iceland. No, it is still that large financial contributions to the health system are being made, not only in terms of increasing the cost of an investment but also in the business itself and thus disappearing from the money policy I was describing here, where there is hardly an absolute prosperity in terms of population. No, the Ministers may not believe that this is the biggest problem, the shortage of money from a designer or, for example, a designer. Perhaps they are just a little more aware that this is mainly the means of organization, a management problem. There must be a well, on the one hand, very strong support for the fact that this is true and, on the other, some plan to solve it and jump into the system. This bill here today. It doesn't do anything like that. And if that's the case, it's enough. The failure of the government is that they think of it only as a control and planning problem. Then it's a bill here today. It's a very weak response. I even think there's a point in this bill that just comes off the grid and raises questions as to whether the imbalance in hospital management could even increase. The land hospital itself points out that the management system of the Agency must be clear. The change in function, a clear set of responsibilities. In general, by setting a specific control over an institution, the risk of responsibility increases, in which context it can be said to be less clear. 1st par. The bill shall make a decision about important aspects of the hospital's operations and activities, the director being responsible for the management expenses and management at the hospital. 2 mg. Thirty-eight. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. There is an increasing number of circuits within the hospital and between Ministers and Directors. In part, the ambiguous responsibilities and long channels can be addressed by the management and management letter and the Agency's ship, but only part of it, corrosion. 2 mg. Thirty-eight. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. Therefore, where the authority and responsibility of the minister of the government and director is must be clearly explained. This, says the review of the Land Hospital, and I have to say that I cannot see reading the Committee's opinion of the greater part of the Committee that these points are addressed specifically or that these points are much clearer after the conniving treatment of this bill. Similarly, it is clear that the subjects and decisions that will be heard under the hospital require me to feel that such comprehensive knowledge of careers and just this interaction involves different services within and outside the hospital and that we must want the experience of this and the knowledge that can be built up to some extent within the regime and that you wonder if the order period is not longer than two years, whether it is not eliminated from the overchange and exchange of government officials. I'd also like to step aside from the comments of the National Institute of Mental Help, which highlight that in the management of Land Hospitals, representatives of users are represented. Must be considered old-fashioned, telling the Syndicate that two members of the hospital administration and no representatives of the user are expected in the medical bill. Sadly, through the years that have again made the ministry worse and have delayed the recovery of many individuals, user voices have not been heard. Recently, we have heard reports of matters in which users of the health system were not listened with tragic results. These issues have developed in various departments and health - care areas and give evidence of the importance of disappearing from policy issues between those who serve in the service and those who render service in the system. I think it's safe to agree, and of course, I support the adjustment of the proposal of my section that a minister shall appoint not only two officers of the staff of the Land Hospital but also representatives of the user free of speech and a court of motion. I want so simply to restate here the viewpoint I presented in my first discussion on this matter that it is in fact long time for an internal review of the Land Hospital as well. The largest workplace in the country is some 6,000 people working at the hospital, the annual government funds for a land hospital to beat up to 100 billion. There is nothing for good that a Government Accounting department has made a comment that no internal accountant is at the Lands Hospital, and I might have thought normal now that we are about to issue a bill of government over the Land Hospital. We would then use the trip and also set up regulations for internal review, the order of the Review Committee, the order of an internal accountant to promote systematic independent monitoring of the activities of the Agency, which appears to have been inconsistency of such factors on a welfare committee. In fact, here I suspect the problem may be at the top of the problem too. For many years, the minister of finance has been appointed since government financial laws were passed in the year. Then they're not set for 2015 and they're in 2016. He has fought to comply with a legal authority in the law to coordinate internal surveillance of citizens and, of course, it's very serious if this is, for example, the case. Now that there is really a delay in such a huge institution that has so much money and what is so, in fact, enormously important, that money is used as best of all. This is to delay some sort of internal review and internal Affairs from such consistent standards. There.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u76	A respectable president. Of course, this is an interesting subject, and when we are discussing this very matter, we must talk about the larger picture along the way. Of course, there is a reason why people are constantly fighting the idea of how best to settle matters when it comes to our hospital, this big one, and probably many of the most important institutions in the country, of course, have this institution through and through our health system, of course just theirs. We're dealing with these things in the politics every day and what I might want to put into this first. Of course, whether we feel that our system is going to be properly built up or not or how it is financed or otherwise, we have at least a share. People inside the system that are absolutely global and all those who have had to take advantage of the hospital's services, so we're taking particular advantage of it in that you now feel that regardless of the situation as such or the lack of capitals that are screaming at a person in that corner of staff or at least and people's will to do well. When people look in there, at times at the most difficult moment of life, the will of people is always very great to do well, and we should be grateful for it. And that is why we must wonder how powerful a government it must be to deal with what I would like to say is a fundamental problem in this, whether it comes of capital or not. It's that people are all out of the world, dying under pressure, you don't get to work anymore, i.e. and I made it my fun when I was going into this discussion, that I took only the last 24 hours of the news about the situation at the hospital, and, of course, a lot of attention. An interview with a nurse by Steingrímsdóttir Steingurdóttttir wrote on Facebook, and the press spread news and interviewed them as they were describing the pressure. Four quit today, and they have cried out and prayed for help. Four nurses resigned from emergency work because of stress. One of them says there is a complete lack of health control. The human body is a huge divulge to realize that the situation is going to get worse. A health minister says that we need to build wood and support the limited resources available to health care professionals. A challenge, however, lies ahead of us. A health minister, of course, may be more cautious about his thinking, but this is, of course, the major problem facing this government, and this must, of course, be the main task of such a professional management. That, of course, is where we come to capitalize. This, of course, brings us to such religious architecture and the rest of the hospital and, of course, perhaps only the human policy needed to build up there that people who have the calling to work in the health system and in the hospital can do that work so that they can do it so that they can not drive out in a few years because of pressure and even for a pay that is not special. It's just that the piece may be grieving in the face of this government, and we can, of course, go back and forth with the way to conduct such a government. The report shows that the goal of the bill is to strengthen the management of the largest health - care facility in the country, Land Hospital, by improving the restoration of a government to be appointed over the hospital, in order to ensure further professional management of the hospital, and it was considered to be the management of hospitals in the North countries, and, of course, there were various aspects of the procedure as outlined in the report, as follows: The main newcomer in the bill is to govern the land hospital. The Commission will be expected to have a full cooperation with the director of the Agency as well as the secretary of health issues on the policy and management of the Agency. The Management Board shall agree with the Agency's long-term policy strategy in accordance with the Commission's legislation and the role of the Agency under law, but is also aimed at reviewing its annual work programme and programme and evaluating its own objectives and objectives and standards and to inform ministers of their assessment within two weeks of the granting the Commission's approval. However, the government is supposed to take a stand on decisions that are important or unusual in the activities of the Agency, such as those of its organization, so it's obvious that it's supposed to take over and go a little deep into things and we must celebrate. I was here to mention some news at the emergency room, and in the context of mentioning that there was also an interview with Dr. Hjalti Malta Björnsson, a doctor who has been in the media many times and who has spoken of conditions only in that department. The worst in the history of these emergency departments, to see again and again if things get worse. We have been reduced in hospital beds while people are increasing, in fact, the results on this trip, so this may be the major task that is faced when this management is taking place and, of course, it has to be good at what to say, so I'm going to back up a nice tray from governments who need a little attention on the basis of analysis and evaluating what sort of resources the Agency has to handle. I'm totally going to say here that when government officials and ministers have come up and talked about the fact that the hospital's problem is not a financial problem, but something else, a career or something like that, it's very simple on the case. As I traced it here in the past, in itself, if we talk about responsibility for the situation, whether it's the capital or the designer, the responsibility is always in the same place. There must be a great deal of health Ministers at each time with the government and, of course, with the secretary of finance at any given time, and I remind them that the ones who now take the nation's administration have been in that role for five years, these three classes, and then the previous year, of course, that the independent party and the forwardees and the same party have remained in the financial department since 2013, so the responsibility for the situation. It's perfectly clear where she's going. That is why it is a little sad, both when we are discussing this and, of course, that there is always some way in which people are aware of the problem and that they want to do better and better in the years since it piles up. Of course, this does not solve the problem, so we are reasonable. We can never find the perfect health system, but we can do so much, much better, so I'm going to be quite positive about the fact that this government, or government, is in charge of the hospital, that it can be a success. It is attributed to the report that there is a bit of a circle going back and forth. It's always changing the system in there, and we're back now or we're back in this, so if this happens, we're going back to something that was true here in the past. I think it's always about that kind of government, however, it can't do anything if it doesn't have what to say, governments, government, health ministers, financial ministers, who have a deep and clear understanding of the problems we face. I would like to mention here, too, in this context that, of course, there are reviews of this bill, and I believe it, and I trust that the welfare committee here has done a great deal with the work inside the Committee, and I would like to pause for the comments of the National Association Psychiatry. Of course, this report on mental health care in Iceland is why I am staying there specifically, so I'm just going through it. There's a General Accounting to come to that conclusion based on some good opinion, and we're going to discuss that report here at the council next week, I think it's a plan. It's talking about not just the hospital, but it's part of it. The level of mental - health care that grows each year increases within the medical system, but the financial resources are not included. It was one big one. A major conclusion and the hole in it are all hailing major policies. The litigation group has been flammable. There are all action plans, assessments and reports, and the results have been inadequate. There are grey areas here and there in the mental - health service, mange, lack of special staff, waiting lists. There are many who have reduced access to the ministry. Of course, I'm running over it and making a point that it's not just about the hospital but maybe the whole health system, and there's a lack of nurses and psychiatrists and tasks, as if I were shaving, and there's still a longer talk about all of this. In that light, I would like to mention what mental - health help is here under review when it comes to the hospital government, and she is referring to the audience being represented by the user. The review has to be quoted to quote that it must be considered old - fashioned that in the bill of the health minister, two representatives on the hospital board and no representatives of the users are expected. Unfortunately, the voices of users have not been heard over the years, which, of course, is why I'm referring this here with a report of the Kingdom Accounting, which has made the ministry worse and delayed the recovery of a number of individuals, and this is of course extremely serious to hear the delay for the recovery of a number of persons because it does not listen to users of the system. How vital that is for us to be a good listener! More recently, we have heard reports about matters that were not listened to users of the medical system with tragic results. These issues have developed in various departments and medical points and give evidence of how important it is to disappear from policy-separation between the servants of the service and those who render the service in the system, and that changes and suggestions are being made by the Directors of Seven Human Hospitals and two neonates at the same time, and one appointed director and another vice president of two directors are to represent employees and B users. Both of these directors have freedom of speech and proposals without vote. A user agent is chosen and hired by the user. Of course, as I said at the outset, we can go over here for a long time on the way to command this kind of government. But at least I'd like to at least. Because of the limitations of mental health problems in our system and in the hospital as well, suggest that we especially listen to what mental help has to say in this, and this is certainly not just the group of patients who may experience the experience of using the system. It may not be as highly respected as it should be when we are wondering how the system should be built up. These systems are for users of the service. These systems are not supposed to serve employees of professions, management, or any mismanagement of political goals if they are different from doing the system good for the users and, in view of the fact that they would be happy to mention here the proposed changes. At the same time, a minister shall appoint two officers from the staff of the Land Hospital, and one representative and user council with freedom of speech and proposal without voting rights that come from Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen and Faturíd Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunundótir, to name it all. I'll tell you the truth. Whether this government is improving or not, I hope very much that perhaps the last thing I say in this speech will be that the government is about to take it seriously on the health of the people is not good enough. That doesn't mean drumming for elections, as was done, e.g. before the last election, talking about the fact that there has been a major emotional appeal. We just have the data and the assessment to show that it's not an experiment, it's a long road from then on, and I'd like to say, you know, they've been decorating themselves with stolen feathery feathers. Can we just say that when we don't open a media medium, we don't watch TV news time, we don't read paper, or look at a Web site that's different from that that we have some stories inside our system that are not supposed to be. We should not be so patient without taking serious action, and it was good to hear a matter here. paritaprevir Kristrún Frosti, daughter, Jóhann, who, of course, introduced a bit of the core of all this and curiously discussed the matter. When a senator moved here, he was discussing what was of little significance in the financial program because he senses the gravity of the problem and the need to give in order to improve his ability to go. Of course, this is true of the hospital, and this is true of health facilities in the country and other health - care areas but only hospitals, which, of course, were mentioned in that context. This lack of nurses is, of course, a major problem and has been pointed out many times. He doesn't seem to be much of a factor, but it's just the problem to make up a problem that may be a major reason why such articles appear in the magazines, as I was witnessing earlier, when people cross into emergency departments over and over again: people lie in every corner, many on every room in a tunnel, and everywhere because there's no way they can get people overrun, divisions so overcrowd, because there are no way to get people into other resources. Of course, it's just a chain, and when one of the chains is not better then. Of course, it affects everything else, so I feel that when we're discussing this case right now, we're wondering how best to manage the Land Hospital with control and then how to command them, and that after their heads, they're dancing their penises. There's no point in doing this, and there's no point in making such changes if there's no knowledge in the highest places and plans in the highest places and understanding in the highest places among the world's rulers that the problem is extremely serious. The building of a new hospital will certainly not solve the whole problem, although we certainly hope that something will improve. I'm going back to what I mentioned earlier. I think the problem and the major solution for this government is, in fact, to find out how to make the work environment there, more human beingly, so that we are not seeing these news day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year four, saying, "We've already cried and called and asked for help." To some extent, this is our health system. Of course, there are a lot of good things to do there, but we don't want to see this kind of eviction day after day and week after week. It is time for the government to realize that the situation is serious, that people make it more urgent to raise financial resources to both the hospital and other smells of the system, and I want to make a record of what I said earlier that I feel that there must be one thing that people need to look beyond and in the context of this report we are going to discuss next week. I hope you're right. It'll give you the opposite respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u77	In the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, yes. V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for a comprehensive talk on this subject. In this regard, the Hospital is under control. The Senator went over a wide range of fields and talked about the problems of the health system that has been long since high and is increasing, and what I was facing earlier was also the case. The members of Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and in reality, this step was rejoiced because it sounds like a council we brought here in my class 2020, to appoint seven men to rule the Land Hospital. What we proposed that the highest authority in a land hospital will be in the hands of a multiorganized government, with the strong presence of the professions, and in reality, it doesn't matter where it comes from. Now it's the government's business. I actually welcome it, but I and I were listened to the talks with spirit, and so I listened to the earlier talk or to the speech of Jóhann Páll. paritaprevir Jóhannsson's son James and Jóhann Páll now spoke of an internal review. Would there be something lacking in this? I didn't really hear from who. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson over this step would be to add unless there was more money and not just a management problem that was a problem, and humans have always been trying to find out. What is that? Then I ask the senator, " What would the senator want to say? ' As far as I can remember, he'd agree with the bill. What would he want to add?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u78	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. "Sigmar Guðmundsson. A respectable president. As I mentioned in my speech, we are late finding the perfect health system, and as indicated by this bill, people look to the northern countries and see that the arrangement there is different. Not everyone has the same thing. In itself, I don't necessarily know what to do, but the idea presented in the bill, I think, is a good price. What kind of persons should be told exactly to sit on the board or whether users should be represented there, employees and others. Of course, that can be discussed back and forth. As a matter of fact, I think it's extremely important for users to have their own agents there. It says in the management board, people with knowledge of business and management plans for health care and scientific research in health and health institutions and public administration and administrative regulations, and this must tell you that a project and a staff of the government is quite certain that the basic concept of this, of course, is just something that I strongly agree with. I think it's so urgent, at least To change the system in that house because we've seen it hasn't worked out. Some have talked about some of the hospital's directors being a little alone out there in the field, and he may be missing a more formal tray to some extent. But, of course, it's also a lack of funding, and if it's not just a question of funding to fix the posts that exist regarding the staff problems of people, they're exhausted in many departments and are breaking down on a large scale and another thing, then, of course, there's something to be improved. It must be in this government's work to get a bit suspicious of it, but all such suggestions and ideas. They're really small if the head itself, the government, the budget, the policy upstairs is not involved. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u79	Hv. 8th yrs Witchest. "Sigurður Páll Jónsson. V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I wholeheartedly agree that the responsibility is with the government. The Senator also came into his speech that in the case of mental illness, mental - health professionals had been regarded as such, and I've just listened closely to a good partner, what they have to say, and I've thought it was a tone in which bells such as these were bells that some kind of grass - based organization or botanical method would help a lot to and the mood like that works well in addiction therapies, and that it's not just something that's very formal and a little like this. What should one say in the emotional field or in the patient's relationship with the person helping him? So I remembered that I had a vision that the field of mind would work well with one's driving skills, as shown in the health - care system throughout the world, to be rich in personal employment and a state health - care system is the best thing that comes out. That's why it's also about mental illness. But I really don't have a direct question because there are so many, but I just thank you for the answer to the second one. Hv. Senator 12.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator is eager for this information, and he will address two points that I would love to take advantage of the opportunity to cross over. Yes, I agree so wholeheartedly that good health care systems, they can use the powers of the private enterprise, but they can't be different from the fact that we have some powerful agency, such as to form a health insurance system that then has a powerful monitoring role and that it is totally clear what kind of service is being bought by private agents and what it is paying for. This requires an amazing amount of transparency in order to maintain the confidence needed because it is so sensitive when we were providing health care. It's not. Of course, this is not any kind of service, and we are, of course, because he mentioned why. The senator's addictions. Then we have an example of a private business that has been very well considered by my opinion, and this as mental - health aid should say, which rhymes well with what was discussed here, of course, is that there was not a hearing of the voices of users over the years of the grassland root, we can say, has so much to say, should she have such a professional position in the hospital. I do not know for myself, but we must always listen to it. We must take note of such comments, as presented here, that users of the health system are not being listened to so that some kind of grass-like activity and some of those there may be potentially closer to users and in other ways. Of course, these voices need to have a clear way into the hospital administration and, of course, just to all of us. Of course, we must appreciate the system and its quality, depending on how users experience the services they receive. Butts are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u81	It's a law to change the laws on the path of loyalty and pollution. The bill includes some changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution, No. 7/1998, including the secretary's office to recommend in Regulation that minimum requirements for education, training and training for those who need knowledge and skills in the field of disease, immediate help, and security will be provided. At the same time, sources are added to apply administrative guiltys and to increase effectiveness in environmental information. The committee discussed the matter, was contacted by guests, and received three reports. In a committee photo following the discussion of the subject by the Committee. Wants the committee specialized. The committee considered D- team 5. The bill, in view of the EEA's comments, to that article. According to the directive, the Agency is allowed to hide agents that the Agency considers suitable on the basis of knowledge and experience of oversight of training, training courses for re-education and testing. The EEA pointed out that in view of the wording of the directive, it seemed that the Agency should generally oversee the courses discussed in this chapter and that it might be concluded that if the Agency did not use its authority to hide qualified members in the management of courses, the Agency should personally conduct such a course. In the opinion of the Committee, the article is clear on the role of the Agency. It is to oversee the courses, the Agency is not assigned to provide training, courses and tests, but to hide those things that the Agency considers suitable for work. It should be noted that at the Ministry meeting and the Agency fell away from their proposal that the article should be removed and that a good consultation with the EEA would be stressed. The implementation of the law. The committee agrees that there is a good consultation and conversation. Then the commission was to deal with the administrative fines of Article 12. it suggests that the EEA can be authorized to place administrative guiltys on an individual or legislator who does not respect the risk management practices, area rest, reporting criteria or measures. According to the National Institute of Health, the same authority is within the reach of health care committees for management fines as the EEA has to consider that there are nine different areas of health care. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important that the application of the administrative fines is agreed throughout the country, while the application of such fines is at the hands of one government to ensure a conformation of court care and proper protection required for administrative rights. However, it is important that the environment assessments, the EEA, work closely with their respective health - care committees. The decision is given. In addition, the committee discussed a long - term global review of laws on the level of loyalty and pollution and is particularly pleased that the work on that review is started in the Ministry. Finally, the committee feels that it is proper to call attention to the wording of the bill that takes into account the viewpoints, genders, neutralitys, such as those in the 5th paragraph. The bill. However, the bill is a change to current law No. 7/1998, where the grammatical male dominant. It is important that, on the basis of this occasion, in the overall review of the law, the agreement on the use of wording will be maintained. The nature of the matter, however, is not necessarily the point of a special discussion on the committee, but the committee discussed this problem, and I want to maintain it as an authority in the case that it is very important if we are really going to develop a mental and understanding change in the community that not all the language we talk about is males. We will also have to work systematically not to use the word executed, but as long as we always take into account the issue of neutrality in speaking words and therefore again what has been said is vital to the overall review of the long - term law that will be looked upon as a form of neutrality. These have been written not only by the Board of Directors but also by the Board of Directors at the Hall of Congress but also by no means to add to the discussion. The Commission suggests minor changes in the bill, which are technically not intended for material influence and do not need special coverage. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be approved by the above legal adjustments under the opinion of the committee. In addition to this, write down a piece of literature. Councilmen Árnason Arnamsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir KristoffIngibjörg Ísak's son, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, and Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardóttir. No more have been silent and are discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u82	A respectable president. I recommend a pan-European and educational committee with a review of a bill for the release of Reykjavíkurburg appointed to investigate the function of Lullaby clinics. The bill contains the necessary permission of Reykjavík's city to appoint a committee to examine the function of the nursing room for children who were assigned to the Children's Health Committee in the last century. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a guest, one from the Ministry of Prime Directors and one from the group. Justice received two reviews, and it is reported. In committees and committees we find ourselves. The committee reviewed the importance of considering the consequences of the children who were saved in nursing rooms and later in their lifetime. The information that has already been provided on the work of the Committee to Work in Reykjavík may be taken into account. It is important to have the viewpoint of those who had experienced children's circumstances, and there are reports of them. Staff and caregivers of the children. The committee feels that it is important for the bill to be done so that it can be started studying the language of the nursing room in Reykjavík in the last century. In view of the indications given under the guidance of the case, the committee suggests a change in the subject. A code of public archives does not support access to the data of the Committee while working. Once the committee has completed the job, its data will be based on events, as well as its official archives law. 3 mg 1st par. and 6. The bill. A respectable president. In the treatment of the matter, the authority of the bill was also discussed for the implementation of personal information, the committee that will explore the activities of the European Bureau. The Commission points out that the change in the proposal will sharpen these sources, where it is advisable to consider how the information published by the Committee may be obtained. The Commission emphasizes that the administrative law on confidentiality and freedom of expression and other apply to the work of the Committee. In addition to the principles set out in the Icelandic administrative rights on a moderate scale, the Commission suggests one technical change that does not require special coverage. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes outlined here. In addition to such articles, under the heading "Apprehensible Writings. " The people of the assembly, Brutís the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson of the Year, Jódís the Skúladóttir of Zul, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir the daughter of Sigur, the daughter of Logi Einar Einarsson, and Þórðardóttir Elisha the daughter of Thordur. It should also be noted that Sigurður Páll Jónsson was absent from the case, while Detective Sigmar Guðmundsson is in agreement with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u83	District, Mr. Logi Einarsson, Madam President. In the late 1950's, one of the most influential radio programs in the United States is called a cage animal and is being made Eggertsson of Eggertson's crib. It tells of young infants who were there and the emotional isolation they received, parents who because of poverty or other circumstances could not care for their children but who were allowed to visit. However, they were not allowed to touch their children or to relate to them but had to look at them through glass. This was especially because of the dominant failure of the period of child development and the complete lack of understanding of the need for linking these methods. But it was a psychologist who got caught there. Björnsson's Sigurde, a psychiatrist who lived in the mayor of those years. He referred to this activity, the word that it was a growth factor of spiritual weakness, and he was able to use his influence to change this activity. Eggersson herself Eggertsson better than many others from these nursing rooms, but he has done much to remind us of and keep her awake. In recent years, there has been a wake - up in society of children who were taken from homes and sent supplies that were intended to be safe, but it was not enough to mention British in that regard. It is important that we consider what happened to the children who were saved in nursing rooms during this period and gather the reports that still exist to the reports of those who still have a report of this activity, and we need to get started as soon as possible. This is a very sensitive subject, and at the completion of the case at the Committee there were indications that led to the adjustment made by a well - respected authority referred to earlier, which, in effect, goes on. It should be noted that the official archives do not have access to the relevant data of the committees and that it is to be set up while working, but once it has finished, it performs its data value, the document code by case. They also discussed the background of the bill for the processing of personal information from the requested committee and proposed a modification form to sharpen the necessary sources. Finally, it is appropriate to mention that this important matter, as presented above, is especially rooted in the struggle between the group, justice, and, of course, a number of individuals who actually have a past that has not proved good in these nurserys, and I sincerely hope that this case is moving rapidly and definitely going through the council and will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u84	Yes, Madam President, I'm just going to enter this legal bill here on the warrant of Reykjavík City to appoint a committee to examine the function of the Lullaby Room, and a well-appreciated authority went well over it. Unfortunately, we are still dealing with such sad and miserable cases as these are and have been working on for now for quite a number of years where we know and have recently been seen for children as well as fair compensation have been paid, children who have lived under a terrible situation and, as it has just happened, that they were often sent to certain places where they were supposed to be safe but were not, and now we were hearing only on a case in Hölttututu, so it's a lot under which, unfortunately, seems to have been broken down in our system. I think that what was expected here on the bill, in which the committees involved, and about to investigate, are aware of the era that was then in spite of everything. Then, women were head of home or looking after children, as is the case in such cribs, and everything else on social standards, but today. It's very important that I think these people who are under there and their families get if they can call righteousness, which may not be said in this, because they can at least get some sort of a showdown from it. Of course, it is very sad that this was primarily perhaps and very common that there was poor mothers and their sad situation that led to it, as was the one here who spoke before me, exactly said that the children were basically taken away if they could be spoken of in such a way, because circumstances simply did not include others and no emotional ones who could make up such a thing. But I'm just going to say that I'm very happy with the change that most of the committee is doing it with documents, treatments, to. I think it is urgent that everything will be opened up so that most of the data can be found that could shed light and a more complete picture on this and then shut again, resulting in a very sensitive matter. But I just agree that I hope that this case is going to be very fast and that it will go on the course when it comes to research. I certainly hope that the conclusion will be in such a way that people will get someone like me, some payment on their own matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u85	Madam President. I'd like to start by thanking those who have the objective of ensuring that this matter is discussed here today, and I'd like to thank also the General and Education Committee for a good job on this bill. So there are various reproaches on our past, and it's not just here on the land. We've seen very serious things, e.g. correspondent in Canada and what was done to the natives. It was last of all, yesterday's news of a serious abuse of Western girls for years, and we have our own story from here, our Lullaby rooms, and some other reformed asylums. Yet, there are times when they even called the home, and here we are discussing one of the people I think very important that we go in and they study what went on and what was done there, regardless of what they were doing to people, both in public, apologize for what they were doing and maybe other benefits I'd like to draw attention to one thing I know to the highest degree. Prime Minister and former speaker mentioned earlier. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was the last associate with representatives from the United States and the Pirates, which were about a working home in Cylinder smoke that was run during the war years for young girls who had been in the situation as it was called, and I did not know this story until a lecture in a sensory assembly this weekend, which included: discussed how young girls were sent there. So now it was transferred to the Council of 145th, a Senate resolution. It is my hope that we can find a group of people from all categories to initiate an investigation into that shame, and we are very diligent here to be open to an investigation of the past and not to be afraid to accept bad things that happened in many of those places, but thank you. Madam President. For this matter has been guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-01.u86	A respectable president. Here is a very important bill that I support as a whole of mind. There has been repeated negative talk by the court rooms in which many have felt that it was quite lacking. So how important it is to find out what really happened in the room! How was the operation? Was Violence Prevailed? Were children, human culture, and what effect did nursing rooms have on children who remained there? There is evidence to suggest that there was an unacceptable treatment of children in the crib. They are thought to have failed the children they were responsible for. We need to, and it's very important to find out the truth, because if it is true, here is a serious matter, a matter that has excerpts right down to today. It affects the adults who were children in the nurserys, their caregivers, and others. It is important that we take note of and accept their growth experiences and find out how and how they have had a long - term effect. The group of righteousness has long been fighting for careful inspection of the awake room. It tells the group in a letter to Reykjavíkurburg that, by permission of the president, it is an undisputed fact that the services of the city's cradle have offered no more than harmful and ill - treated children there. Such a study must be done carefully and analyze the matter. It needs to be able to answer our questions adequately. Why were children saved in nursing rooms? What was their treatment if, as indicated by evidence, they had been treated? How could it have been in the hands of people all this time or for some 24 years? What are the consequences of being in nurserys? It is important that the viewpoint and experience of those who had experienced the circumstances of nursing rooms help us to get the viewpoint of those who had experienced children's children's circumstances and reports, including their experiences. staff and caregivers of the children. A respectable president. What do we do when there is evidence that future events were not the way we accepted them? Yes, we will study and learn from these events, we use experience, and we will prevent such events from ever happening. Again in this context, I think of the sentence that originally comes from philosopher John Teini, those who do not learn the story of being forced to repeat it. Therefore, I would like to encourage the World Congress to accept the bill the quickest and the city of Reykjavík to establish a committee that works professionally, neutrally, carefully, and thereafter we should know the truth and be able to learn from the story as we should.
