ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u1	A respectable president. I came up here yesterday and requested by the President to protect the government's respect of the General Assembly in connection with the citizens' rights application directed to the council. In an article at Science yesterday, the highest. Under the title of the State Minister, the Court of Civil Citizens and the Council of the United States, the Minister spoke proudly of the council. There are two confusions, one on the other, the request directed by the General for the administration of certain data and information based on a law to be carried out by governments and the other on the other hand, by the removal of applications for citizens' rights, which is certainly being carried out in a global and educational committee. In this article, a minister leaves no doubt that he feels it is his job to direct the council. So I beg the chairman of the council to use all weight to protect the government's respect of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u2	Mr. President. I come up here to say something. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristín's Kristínardóttir of Gunnarsdóttir. This article is the highest. The Minister of the inside is absolutely prerogative, since it seems to be the highest. A minister failed to discern the content of a law in the group he is directing. In this case, he allows himself to speak of a double system where equality does not prevail, that it is chosen who receive legal citizenship here. I'm the highest. A minister who is here in the hall to learn more about the background of these laws and the reasons why the matter is in this way, but he agrees with the wish that the president join the council and uses himself for clear laws concerning the activities of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u3	A respectable president. I'm going to take my mind off what happened here at the end of the day. Congressmen who spoke before me. The information presented to the General and Education Committee in this case has been peculiar. I believe it, and I trust that those who came before the committee, whether represented by state institutions or government officials, will do so with full integrity. However, the information presented to the Committee has been conflicting. What those who represent a minister in the early stages are saying is in stark contrast to what a minister himself says in the article quoted earlier in the discussion. I agree that the president of the council must be at the highest level. The minister of the seminary said that he problems with his information to the council and that he becomes the law of the land. It is not the Bureau or the Ministry to decide to change a legal practice. The respect of the Generalis is greater than that it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u4	Mr. President. Once in the old days, in the fall of 2018, the Ministry of Justice said that it was best to reevaluate the provision of civil rights in the best cooperation of the Ministry, the Foreign Office and General and Education Committee. Now, in an article by the Minister of Justice, the Ministry reported to the General on one side of the changes to the work that they have repeatedly tried to do in a conflict with the will of the General and Education Committee. And when was that done? This was done in June of last year when the council is suspended. The General Board of Education and Education doesn't get along until almost six months later, and it's too late. At that time, the Foreign Institute has been spending long enough to cover the applications of more than 100 people who paid 25,000 each to obtain its payment in accordance with the law. This disregard for a minister in his article at Visi is something I expect the president to take seriously to the minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And the fact that he thinks he can report one thing about how the General should operate suggests that he needs a lesson in administrative matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u5	Mr. President. I just want to use this opportunity to express concern about the fact that I consider this government, the three administration groups, to be fully trained in following what we have previously considered uninhabited paths, i.e. that the content of the individual case and the position of the individual minister, even the government, to them determine whether the legal information counseling or its subsets to the Council is respected. I'm just going to encourage the president to intervene and stand with the council and the public in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u6	President. I come up here to agree with this, this case is much bigger than handing over applications for citizen's rights. It's just a threesome of the power. The treatment of this case has been very different, and I think it's clear that the president and we here are going to have to sort this out. It's an unacceptable way to work. It is not a ministry or agency to appoint a Senate committee solely for the changed procedure. That's not how it works. The Agency should provide us with specific data under law and should be respected. Another matter is whether this arrangement is correct and whether we need to change it. But that's just not how things work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u7	Mr. President. In his article at Science yesterday and also in his language, there is a peak. Like the council, members of the local minister speak to the council, not knowing the background, and there is some misunderstanding. But that's not the case. The case is that a change of procedure has been discussed for some time, but it has not been established. I agree with that. paritaprevir Sadly, Katrín Friðriksson, who came up earlier, expressed concern for the general government's attitude toward the council. What's going on here is that a minister is confusing his personal opinions with how the arrangements for making a citizen's right to be in Iceland and obliging the government to deliver data requested by the council. The Commission's request to the National Institute of Iceland was very clear; the evidence was being asked for. [[The president calls.]] It is not a misunderstanding that this evidence has not been supplied, it is a determined will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u8	The president still reminds us of a limited talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u9	A respectable president. I wanted to add what I came in here earlier that I couldn't quite finish because of the time I was given. It is not just the government that criticizes how the government works. A minister is in charge of these matters, and so does a member of the board. The committee has agreed that in the long run, a change in procedure will be needed to consider how the council is involved in the granting of citizen's rights. In a short time, however, a secretary - minister's intelligence through the government has been on the way that this would remain unchanged, and then we would look at the process for a long time. These two are not allowed to mix up, and I think it's the highest. A minister should not post the Ministry's officials or the Ministry's agencies to be throwing in the false charges when the Minister's position is very different.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u10	A respectable president. As head of the General and Education Committee, who was employed late November, I'd like to say that it certainly surprised us that there had been a change in the work of the Foreign Institute. But it is clear that this letter was transmitted to the then universal and educational committees. I can agree that the Council's Office or agencies do not determine a one-way change of procedure, that's clear. But we've had a good meeting with the head of the State Department, which identifies the problems of the current arrangement. It involves the equality of those who are applying for citizenship. Of course, we want to be careful of the equal, so I agree with what has been said here. We need to find a better plan for the future. But I am convinced that when we sit down with the representatives of the Foreign Institute, who have now sent us the applications received, the reviews of the applications they have received, the Subcommittee of the General and Education Committee can come to a good conclusion and settle in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We must all want to solve this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u11	President. Of course, I agree with what others have. The senators have said this before. But I would like to point out one major disrespect as the highest. The Minister of the Interior, in the conclusion of his article, is presented. He spoke of us as having been using a discussion about the President's conference board to complain about the procedures of the minister and his institutions. He says, with President's permission: ▪ In this false lawsuit at the wrong time, most of them became informed about the respect of the Generals. I want to point the highest. A minister says that he has not been here for an unsupervised period since the year before and therefore did not allow us to criticize this at any other point in the program than the President's body. I think the highest. A minister should examine his own clout when it comes to showing honor to the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u12	A respectable president. That is of serious concern when a minister's personal opinion prevents the law of the State. It is clear in the laws on citizens' rights that the Allied shall be granted citizen's right. The circumstances of the human family are fraught with equality. So when the Civil Rights is granted under the administration of them, all the legal conditions must be met and therefore, and, that is why, for those individuals who are unable to meet all the conditions of the law, this exception is granted by the General Assembly. I'm the highest. A minister to learn about the circumstances of people in distress who have even lived here since birth, who have even lived here for decades but cannot meet all legal conditions, e.g. Because it is not locked, because it cannot learn another language, because it cannot learn to read letters as we use it or simply because of health issues. [[The president calls.]] Hence, they cannot meet the legal requirements for a citizen's right to a governmental decision. It is a restricted warrant that must be given by the General Assembly on the exact basis of opinions, as the minister has now shown. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u13	A respectable president. I would like to get involved in this discussion to agree and stress that the relations of the General and the Commission are being carried out by the law and that both sides are respected. I also want to make my trust at the highest. The president of the General and Education Committee, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and the highest. The President's handling of natural contact so that the implementation of existing applications can be carried out. However, I would also like to agree that it is important to keep on the watch and reviewing the arrangement and that it must be done in the cooperation of the General and Education Committee and Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u14	Mr. President. Well, there's a lot of crap in Buffalo. A minister who could be mentioned here. But I would especially like to mention the statement that general civil rights applications will be delayed because of those applying for the General Assembly. All these people pay for the payment of the National Institute of Iceland in accordance with a fee to reflect the work involved in the payment. Either the manifest is wrong, which is responsible for a minister, or that the funds do not return to the Foreign Institute, to the staff, to win these applications. To blame the people who are applying to the General Assembly for delays in the office of the Foreignland Institute - it's just bullshit. Then, in particular, I notice that these are the representatives of the colleagues in the platform. A representative of the left green criticism of the Minister plainly. An advance representative expresses full confidence in two independents. Neither of them is the minister. Neither of the independents as much as any. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir is counting on this case as the minister of the seminary. Mr. President. Is there a lack of confidence in the board of directors at the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to review that there's not a new problem, the arrangement that's being handled in these areas. I personally have a chosen period of time, not because I personally had on those to whom he was assigned, but because I thought it would be a very difficult arrangement for a simple comment, and made a persistent suggestion that it would be updated and adjusted. They always agreed, but nothing happens. It won't happen until the end of the term, then it will happen in the way it has been described. I'm afraid we're about to sail into another terms under the same category of pressure and sleep until the politicians are under cover, as in this case last summer, when the council was delayed and the people came to the election. I just hope that the inspiration that has been presented here to the ancient man. The General and Education Committee to update this procedure for some benefit, since for the past four years, the Ministry itself became of little value. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u16	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Wood, Scientific, Industrial and Neony Minister, and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u17	A respectable president. Surgeons were given to bring full relief to people who are damaged by traffic accidents or other accidents. Each year's minimum wage scale is included in the Law of Scorpio. These criteria of damage laws change year by year according to the index of consumer prices, yes, the index of consumer prices. It will be surprising to use this scale to calculate the pay range when a further precise scale, a pay number, could be used. As salary increases above prices, the protection of the damage laws has reduced the lives of people who are affected by physical injury but who have not been fully employed in the past three years before an accident. These include: individuals who have not worked full - time, working at home, older citizens, students, abstinents. So these groups do not now enjoy the same protection in the damage laws they were protected from validation. Premier, highest. In this sermon, a professional minister said that she was going to revise the damage laws but later said that she was not going to reevaluate the damage laws. So I ask the Minister of the Interior that he will be reimbursed? A wise minister will make adjustments in these criteria, and will Ministers also consider adroit? As the situation exists today, people are in a very different position, one injured person who may have been from work two to three years before trying to get his case to courts and, on the other, a strong insurance company that can run into money and make money as never before. Very much. Ministers will arrange for this to be updated according to a remuneration scale so that individuals who suffer the loss will be fully satisfied?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u18	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is here on a matter of great importance, and I thank him for this inquiry. This case, for the short time I've been in the Ministry, has not been discussed, but I'm sure it's a good idea to consider these observations and see if there's any reason here to correct it. In general, according to the information you have had, there have been improvements in accidents in recent years, so that there have been improvements due to damages experienced by those who are higher than previously known. This has been the development. But where it stands exactly today, I will take it and look at it and get that information to the point. The senator's reaction. It's just a matter of careful consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of wood for the answers, but they were rather demeaning in that we are required to make sure that people receive complete compensation. I ask myself, " Why are we really helping and defending insurance companies who run into money and not individuals who are injured? ' It is intolerable that those who suffer physical harm will survive in need, even in disability, and thus will not fully be satisfied. I believe that it will also be seen to make sure that the financial damages of insurance companies are examined. The late King Pétur Blöndal said that it was money without a shepherd. We need to reimburse this, and we need to make a record of this. We need to keep an eye on this. We know what happened to Sóvá's damage fund that disappeared into a luxury apartment in China and ended up at the bottom of the pool on Eelphunes. I hope you don't. I'm asking you, have the FDA been letting out of the Secret Bank to check out insurance companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u20	A respectable president. There's one thing I can say. A senator. There are no interests in this legislation, nor in these matters, on my part, or on the Ministry or the Council, I will state, taking into account the interests of insurance companies in particular, in excess of those affected. Of course, a balanced approach to the assembly needs to be made. I agree that it is our responsibility to make sure that people have a proper standing when it comes to attending compensation if they have an accident or a failed job or in other circumstances. I am quite convinced that these improvements were at one time far too low. Evolution, I think, if it's checked without me publishing about that number, is in the direction that these improvements have been rising and I'll look at it as I've promised the dog. A senator to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. The minister of the greatest challenge in the woods we are facing - I think we can agree on that - but that's the energy issue. It is not only when it comes to our ability to build a good society for the future throughout the country but also when it comes to the battle against the climate crisis. The government aims that in the year 2040, Icelanders will be independent of fossil fuels first in all nations, and this is part of the battle against climate addiction. We know that although 18 years are involved, this will not be achieved if we do not immediately start preparation. Rather, it is because all of us have seen differences in the way each one should go. Need more energy, how to access it, etc.? The government covenant speaks of the change of energy and puts much emphasis on it. I'm thinking of hearing opinions from the highest level. It belongs to a minister who prefers to assure me that there will be a sound and a picture in this matter. Recently, the director of national activation said that we don't have enough energy, that we need to be activated. There's a difference. Today, we rely on the hydropower workers, and in the case of a hundred percent of natural energy, we are dependent on natural quirks. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is the government's plan for these matters? Which leads to the highest. A minister to prevent energy shortages and to make sure that we reach our critical goals? Is a monotonous within the government of the way to the highest degree. The minister of the infrastructure is most skilled in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for the query. Although the energy issues are not in themselves, I'll be happy to respond to this inquiry. I agree with the senator that in years past, we have done too little, including Because the discussion in society has been in the wrong place. Hv. One senator says it's controversial that there's no energy. I don't think that's controversial anymore. It is a 2% increase that the market needs every year at least. Then we have some 1,200 mW that we know we need energy exchange over the next 20 years. We then have two groups, one of those who are buying energy from us today and who like to get more energy in many cases, because green energy is the preferred price to produce a product which is then a currency to us and a professional and is produced in climate ways rather than many other things that happen in the world, and then perhaps another group of new customers, are to produce those who want to produce electricity more to help us in the energy exchange. So my vision and my government are that we need to resolve this problem, i.e. We need to be able to have a clear framework for making decisions about further activations, on the other hand, in the framelines and on the other hand, dealing with this windmill speech. There we have agreed that the wise thing to do is to watch for the first place where transportation lines and bonds are built. These are obviously the areas where national activation is in today, i.e. Blistering and accommodating, possibly the area east as well as the Theistar Islands, because there are all such areas underneath. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would, I think, be a very good step to begin with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u23	The president still reminds us of a limited talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u24	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I know the energy issues aren't exactly under the Minister, but these are, of course, the words I entered at the beginning, and I know the Minister is interested in these matters. At the end of that statement, we again needed further work on the subject. I may be trying to force you to say that we don't have time for an entire sanctimonious period for a further examination of the case, we need action. So I have two more questions. On the one hand: What does it mean for the government to state that there are no more options for a waiting party? Are there other benefits today in the use or use of other valuables today? What does this mean, and is not the minister's concern that this will lead to even greater delay than speed it up? Because a minister refers to the wind power: The former environmental minister now proposed a bill six months ago or as if many who have the most knowledge of these matters feel that it would have permanently ended our ability to activate the wind. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's the highest opinion? A minister of it? Will we see another kind of thing and change the government's bill of wind power during this ideal period?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u25	A respectable president. Yes, in the Treaty, we talk about the need to deal with the obvious problem that is demand for green energy in exchange for energy. In the same way, of course, we need to take a good look at it and choose carefully which territory to use in that regard. In my mind, it's quite clear, and that's what I'm taking with me after the conversation we had with the constitution, that you have to sort out the frame 3 of the problem or things she's been in by expanding the waiting party. I've had that opinion for quite a long time. [[Up to:...had six years to do that.]] I suppose that means that men will be taken from both the Neo class and the patron class and say, "Hey, let's just keep this for generations to come." The same applies to the wind. I don't think people were on the right track, and that's why I was talking for another approach earlier, that we'd start with that, and then we'd take the time to go everywhere and then we can figure out how the frame of wind can be taken in a regular job in Iceland. - Excuse me, Mr. President, I did not understand your words about staying within the hour. [[Take it up: I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u26	Mr. President thank you very much. Minister for acknowledging his errors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u27	Mr. President. I want to direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister. Climate and environment will have plenty of room in the government contract, natural, and there are two things I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister in and pray to explain further. In this chapter, we are putting the climate issue first: The government will not issue any license for oil search in Iceland's economic legal history. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether this is merely closing a version of oil search permits or if natural gas falls below it. Is there a possibility, if anyone wants permission to look for natural gas, to publish that? This is the first question. The second question is that of the Treaty, with the permission of a president: When peace - informed territories and glaciers in the highlands change the law of Lake earth, it becomes a national park. What I want to ask the highest. The prime minister in the United States is ▪ in the area where peace - related territories are being declared. Does this mean that all a peace-informed region will fall under it and become part of this new park or that a peace-infested region is an option only within the national park to establish an expansion of the law on Lake Earth?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I would make the Treaty very clear on the fact that there is a very clear statement not to be issued on oil search and on the Environment, Energy and Climate Minister's Constitution for these matters. I'd feel that although it lies in the hands of a Minister to implement this in a permanent legal way, the spirit of the law is that we are not watching the progress of nonrenewable energy sources in Iceland's legal history. With regard to national parks as dog. A senator asks about them as they are watching a peace - related territory in the middle of a highland line, just to explain this because he mentioned all the peace - related areas. First, it is determined by the central highland line, and then again it is an export for which the Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister is responsible and is responsible. The senator can read in a government contract for consultations with the locals and other members so that the final separation of the park will not be made until the minister gives the bill. But we can say that all areas in the middle of the country are peace - related areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. It is good to note that all in the middle of the country would not become an unreserved part of this park. It matters. V.E.G. A minister made it clear that the Spirit of the Treaty says, and I agree, that my understanding of the text was that production of nonrenewable sources of energy fell under the limit of the Treaty. Is it not that there will be no permit for processing or research related to natural gas in the economic history, then, in view of the fact that the European Union, which some in this council watch very much, is working to define natural gas as a green source?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u30	Mr. President. Now may be the time. A senator takes the line from the European Union, but I look at it as if we're not at that place. We are looking at the goal of becoming independent of fossil fuels and reaching very ambitious goals, both in the contraction of greenhouse gases and in the binding of carbon. The fire of fossil fuels simply does not match that goal. I'd like to say, too, that I don't know how to do that, and why. A senator may know more about it than I do, that several fountains of gas were harvested here, so this case has not come up in that way. With regard to the peace - related territory, it may be helpful to recall that they are quite a few in the middle of the country. I just want to reiterate what I said before. It refers to Beloe, the Mountains of Kerings, the French region of Mountainbak, the Red Sea, and other areas. Of course, the export hangs on the results of a consultation with locals. So the final implementation will not appear at this council and will not be in the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u31	Mr. President. On Tuesday, the results of Social Affairs were presented in the National Association of Iceland on behalf of Iceland's stewardry Association on the basis of the Association of Tourism for Illellanda. The normal requirement was that Iclanders who had accepted the government's support of divulging the people was reinvigorated to the company's professional age sequence when the company's activities allowed. Icelanders had not done so but had chosen from among them on their own terms. The conclusion of Socialization is clear that Iclanders had to follow their working years when their partner canceled the resignations of flight attendants and flight attendants. By permission of the President's Association of Professional Affairs, which protected the Icellands, it says: It says that during the treatment of Alliedis on a bill that became the law of No. 50/2020 has been rejected the change in the motion that working age should be managed by re-re-employment. In the spring of 2020, I made a motion to make it clear in the law that reimbursement should be made in a series of working days. That proposal was made. In fact, it was only members of the United States who voted for her, along with one sharp vote. An outside senator. Between discussions, the President of ASI had sent a letter to all members of the Parliament on the importance of such a proposal. Therefore, the government's members and advisers clearly identified the problem on the bill but rejected the proposal, making clear messages to companies and the sector's organizations that age is not relevant to reimbursement. Personnel were broken, and the government made a conscious decision not to stop them. How's the top count? Minister to respond to the decision of Socialism? How will the government shoulder responsibility in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u32	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that this judgment has fallen, and it is very important that the government and the labour market minister will now consider it because this is the workforce we have at the labour market to solve differences, and the result is clear. Hv. A senator asks: "What will be the reaction? " That judgment will be taken seriously, and it will be a lesson for us next. That's really the most clear thing I can say about this. I would also like to make it clear that such judgments are to be taken seriously by the government in the future, in order to form legal adjustments, and other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u33	Mr. President. The purpose of the narrative was to prevent corporate bankruptcy, not to impair the rights of employees. Our proposal in the United States, to prevent this from happening, was dropped by the highest power. Prime Ministers, more stewards, and members of the Sanhedrin who thus sent a message about their will in the matter. This is the fact of the matter, and the government must accept responsibility for it. The government paid out over 12 billion dollars. to companies to help them quit people. Of course, there were more companies than Icellands. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether it will put up with the job of identifying how to reimburse other companies who received the Kingdom scholarship and who do not believe that the government should make a clear demand for companies who are aided by the State to show community responsibility and respect the right person of pay? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u34	Mr. President. This sentence applies specifically to stewardess, and I know that in these contracts there are special work-time rules, so, of course, there is something we need to consider. As to whether the judgment of Social Justice - and I'm just going to say that I haven't done exactly what it says - I don't have a precedent for the other sectors of the labour market, I'm not going to say anything that I haven't reviewed the court. I expect the labour service minister has done so. But I reiterate what I said that we should take this judgment seriously and learn from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u35	A respectable president. Since 2014, the Red Cross in Iceland, based on its legal support to the government, has performed public services with candidates for international protection, as well as with various social support services as agreed by the State Department of Nations. The contract has been renewed several times, but the present period of the contract is February 28th or four weeks off. When the Red Cross struck at the beginning of November based on information about whether to extend the contract in accordance with its regulations, there was little answer. After repeated requests, the Ministry answered that because of the change in employment and social transportation procedures with the security officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the agreements were smiling and would not be extended. The challenge here is to change the order of recruitment and transport of their tasks between them, not to influence any agreements made by the government in their town on these projects. Therefore, questions about why the contract was denied with such shame remain unsatisfactory. As the situation takes some 750 persons to the Red Cross service according to the contract. In the Red Cross, about 15 lawyers, who perform the role of candidates for international protection work in accordance with their laws on foreigners, as well as some 45 volunteers involved in various other activities. This requires extramarital and interior tasks that have supported other vital activities carried out by the Society. In the less than eight years that the Red Cross has performed this ministry, there has been an enormous supply of knowledge and a process that has been carefully developed. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What will Ministers do to ensure proper assistance with candidates on international protection after missing the Red Cross deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u36	A respectable president. Briefly answer a question. When asked, " What will the Ministry do to fulfill the legal ministry? ' , is that they intend to obey such laws as it is hoped and referred to in all jobs, and so does its institutions. The development of this government made these changes that there was a change in projects. Social services are now moving to the Department of Social Affairs, while the Department of Speech, Legal Services, the Department of Justice and the Foreign Affairs. Under those circumstances, it's normal in the Ministry, there had been some opinion of it before I got there, and I'm just signing it, revising this deal. My position is now quite clear in these respects, that such a work to run on should be offered out, thus fulfilling its state's service, should be sought out for the best price for the services it provides when it is paid. The other is a different matter, and for this I have great respect for the Red Cross, evidently, where I myself come from a subversive body that is guided by humanitarian talk, i.e. The rescue groups and the work there is done by volunteers. In many ways it is highly justified when the State steps forward and makes service agreements with such parties for a particular project, an elaborate project, in which the volunteer service is even part of a solution, as we have so clear an example in our society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers in many ways. According to the Red Cross, the contract has been extended for two months, or until the end of April, which is in the light of the Ministry's claims on smiling grounds. I ask: If it was possible to extend the contract for two months, why could it not be extended by twelve so freely to a successful new party, it would be possible for others to accept the cylinder of the Red Cross? My question to the minister is, Do Ministers count two months long enough to build up the service in other people's hands than the Red Cross so that there is no violation of services to candidates for international protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u38	A respectable president. Yes, it is our evaluation that that time is adequate. These are the points that came up before New Year's, if I remember correctly, and there was also an attempt to respond to the Red Cross's situation regarding the staff resolutions and reorganization of functions. We count that time enough. Some might criticize, looking for an offer or a negotiation process regarding this, that this time is too short, considering it from that side of the situation. But this is considered a good time to take the steps ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u39	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this opportunity, to have a place to speak at the highest. Healthcare Minister for Disease Control. This, in itself, is an excellent time to do so, for we, of course, look it up, and most of us must have come to believe that it is now time to reconsider our approach and to put aside the hard limits that have been in society for some time. Before I reach the epidemic situation and what it is to say, I would like to mention that one of the principles that we have proposed in this discussion and that the last years of this epidemic have been a lot of talk about. We have felt that the coming of the council would have to be greater than it has been. Today we propose a motion to make changes in the treatment laws. This is a proposal that we have been working recently, making it necessary for a minister to propose a decree for the council to confirm the arrangements he has already taken. This suggests that if an epidemic persists, the council would have access to the situation. It is not that this has to be a procedure at the beginning of an epidemic, and we want to emphasize that when we consider the suggestion, we must, of course, consider that while we are looking closely for the rest of the day, something can happen and the epidemic will continue or that there will be new epidemics in the future. This adjustment proposal will be made today, and it will be before the council members to examine. It does so in our opinion that the coming of the council is guaranteed, not just by conversation, but by the fact that the council makes them really decisions with the highest severity. Governments at one time limit the rights of people because of an epidemic in society. Then to the position as she is today. But before I get to that, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not agree that the council had arrived in such a way. I'd also like to mention the highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, passed the exact same idea in the council earlier this week, and whether it was the highest. A health minister will not agree with this. Then the situation. These severe limitations in today's society were supported by predictions of the epidemic, and it is quite obvious that we are in a much better place than the most optimistic projections were expected. About six months ago, the proportion of hospitalised patients due to infection was 2.5%. At that time, the delta complex was rampant. At that time, of course, there was material to meditate on and to have limitations in the community. It has been for about a month now that I've been detecting more than 1,500 people a day, and I'm just talking about infections that are detected in samples. Nevertheless, there have generally been only about three in the intensive care unit, which, of course, is serious in itself but much less than we expected, and approximately 0.2% have been in the hospital. Then we find additional yesterday, as well as the previous day, that there are far more people who are infected than we are taking in samples, up to twice or three times as many. This means that the proportion of people who enter the hospital of those who get the virus is not 0.2% but significantly lower. In such a situation, it is absolutely indefinable to maintain such a severe meeting limit today. The government is being announced a skirmish tomorrow. Although we have not yet seen its contents, the position of the chairman of the Independence Party is totally infringement and criteria for the severe limitations that still exist are broken. If they are not to be relieved immediately from the nation, from the businesses and people in business, from the culture, and from the food sector, the ultimate question is, A government is actually maintaining a condition that is nothing more than a violation of the fundamental rights of people. The situation in this epidemic is very different than it has been so far. This new variant transforms the situation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of health whether he agrees with that assessment. Secretary of the budget that you need to lift immediately and whether you intend to wait - a statement at the highest level. The secretary of finance arrived on Monday - until next week if not some extension of lawbreakers and failures to make decisions made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u40	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for setting this discussion on the program on the SECs, the situation and our conduct in the epidemic and the health system. But I would like to say at the beginning that I find it a somewhat special context, and perhaps a full stream of simplicity, that the hospital's heavy position is the main obstacle to our being careful and setting meeting limits, that the hospital somehow stands in the way of our enjoying full human rights. I think it's a bit deep at least during the years. Then I would like to refer to the fact that other nations have taken a similar course, and all of this must work together. We've used the meeting limit so that the spread will not be too fast, it needs to work together in that way. I'd rather adjust this to the extent that we have been able to keep our community more active than many other nations through the epidemic for vision, persistence, and the survival of our health systems, and so on, to protect the virus, but we've all had to put some effort into it. If you ask the person standing, of course, we will be on the health and hospital. We need to take various measures to ensure that we can handle the situation at a time, both to receive those who need to enter while maintaining a different service. The situation is different, I agree with that. That's what a senator does. That's why we're preaching a reduction plan. But we must do so on the basis of the information and situation at one time. I need to remind you that we still have P.P.D. in the emergency unit and the emergency hospital. Hence, a number of measures have been taken to help with the hospital. When the last meeting limit was set two weeks ago, there was uncertainty about the development of the epidemic. At that time, 47 were in the hospital, and the situation was very heavy. Then we took action to negotiate with a number of people in the private sector, and this has helped a great deal. Organizational adjustments were made for additional efforts, and this is much the same as has been done in other parts of the North countries, Denmark and Sweden. Besides, we've got staff from other institutions into the hospital, and we've also benefited from flotation teams, and we've got relief teams in place. So it has taken a lot of effort to meet a difficult situation. This is what I wanted to draw out here. Secondly, why? A senator is involved in the work ethic. The CDC offers suggestions to the secretary, the Minister takes them before the Minister's Committee and into the government, and so is the attendance of the council. I can tell you right here, a respectable president, that I am open to all the changes in the arrangement, and I always support that the council has the greatest access to such matters. How that arrangement should be exactly--I say it here only that I am very open in that regard. How thrilling it will be to see how the discussion will be discussed on the issues presented here and there! A senator points in. And I'd also like to remind you that I'd like to bring a full reexamination into the council and, hopefully, sooner than later in the Senate, it is announced during the month's February and March. Hopefully, it can succeed sooner than a working group has been working on that matter. In the end, there will be a reason. A senator entering a vaccination. We have been blessed with them. It has helped us through this epidemic. Generally speaking, we have benefited from the protection of vaccinations in the perioperative setting. [[The president calls.]] When the spread of infectious diseases began to be severe, the tripedics could be in a so - called workaholic environment. But I'm warning that we're going to have some sort of separation on the basis of vaccinations. That's where I wouldn't want to go with our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u41	Mr. President. The major task that lies ahead is to strengthen the health system so that it can cope with the events and events of the future, and it must begin immediately. The epidemic has made it clear that savings, cuts, and maintenance requirements of the past few years have not paid. The health system's disease status when the Korean virus epidemic hit has cost the whole community a lot of money and quality of life in patients who have had to wait for the position to take action. The government groups must do better than respond to increased medical care funds by setting standards for institutions and not providing funds to deal with severe design problems or by providing special funds to meet more people and the aging of the people. In addition, long term stress on health care professionals is taking a toll. There is growing concern that as a result of stress, coldness will be added to the existing problem of design. It is assumed that the number of older people has increased by about 60% in the year 2040, and humans are facing it. Both governments have long but not made effective plans, and the problem grows each year. The increase in donations has largely been improved, but the situation in real life today is much the same as it was in 2008. However, the need for health care has grown considerably since then. Now that we are so optimistic as to assume that the epidemic is about to pass, governments must think outside the pandemic and under emergency measures. They must set aside timed and funding programs to meet the challenges that come with more people needing health care and the lack of staff to care for those in need of care and to allow the health system to meet temporary tragedies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u42	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. I want to make a special topic of talk that actually gives me a little bit of fear that it seems rather taken for granted to limit people's freedom than to give it back. I don't think that's a bad way to treat our basic rights. At the beginning of the epidemic, it was considered reasonable to place nearly unknown limits on people's lives because of a compelling reason, with no uncertainty or safety. We all shared in it, and we can be proud of the way we did it. Since then, the situation of all the standards has improved greatly, but the actions are remarkablely similar to those at the beginning of the epidemic. President. Of course, it is important to lean on evidence. But if restrictions on people's freedom can be placed with virtually no warning, it should be possible to eliminate them with the same noticelessness when the evidence indicates that there is no need for them. Right here and now, we still have very strict limitations, though the data point in a different direction and have done for some time. At the beginning of the epidemic, we were a model in the cross-cutting and trying to maintain a normal society. Now we seem to be falling behind with a lot of social, cultural, and professional life closed while neighboring nations are risking their limitations. President. No doubt, viruses will always be part of our existence. It is imperative that we take seriously now and in the future that any restraint on people's freedom must always be faced as a complete exception, in accordance with the law and in strict evidence. President. We have to prepare this better and more clearly for the future. Otherwise, action may not only cause more pain than it should protect, but it is the loss of sight of important basic rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u43	A respectable president. No one can lie on my neck because I have brought up the throat of this crown virus, in full sense, I became sick from it. Is that a regular flu? No, it's worse. But not as bad as I expected. Still, I am concerned about the consequences of the virus and especially the results of the hospital. We see that nurses in intensive care now reduce their employment rate, have taken 50% of their jobs. It tells us that the pressure has become intense. But the pressures of the epidemic will become more intense when we start to take up the list of them. We are to be grateful that private teams, the Clinical and Energy House, from there experts, doctors and nurses, came to help in the hospital. And we need that person to stay on the table when the virus starts to give in order to work on the list. We will no longer be allowed to have hundreds, even thousands of people who are ill on lists. I've just spoken to someone who needs hip surgery. He's got a full-time job, but he's been waiting for months. And what are they doing to him? Yes, he is being given a powerful painkiller. That's the solution. There are also reports that too much is being sold and given of radical analgesics. Isn't there a connection? For people with cancer and other diseases, we need to map out the consequences of this for them in the lists. We need to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u44	President. As I've pointed out, I think it's quite successful that we chose to write the story around the pandemic. I find it important to address the fact that our health systems passed the test. We have been under intense pressure, increased support, more money than we look for in comparison with other countries, and countries where people died uninvolved at parking lots because they could not be accepted. Our situation is that people have been served here. This is a challenge, certainly a prolonged waiting list, but the health system passed the test. I also think it's important to point, as noted, that this is a turning point. Of course, protection measures have varied according to the pandemic situation. The goal has always been to keep the wave in check to protect people's lives and health, especially our most vulnerable groups, so that our health systems cope with the pressures. Now, for the first time in this new phase, we need to examine a different methodology that has had to be used. In this phase, as before, a reduction plan is being proposed. That's what they're doing for the third time. For the first time in March 2020 and then in April 2021. At that time, a national extraction plan was introduced and put in consultations so that no consultation could be made. It is also Colombian to hear the argument in the discussion that some have now said all along that this method or the other method should be used. We're in a different position today. We're a vaccinated nation, we've got a new breed, we've got fewer insurgents in intensive care. This is where our advice has been applied to our most skilled experts, and I feel that we have done well as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u45	President. During the last few days, the discussion in this country has rapidly shifted toward the time when the pandemic will soon be over and there will be no longer a need for disinfectants. It should not be forgotten, though, that this is not the first time that we believe to be successful and that the epidemic is behind us. Most of us will remember when we considered herd resistance just beyond the corner of the last summer when adult vaccination was about to come to an end. That did not predict real estate, and six months later, we still have a ten - man ban on transport. It has been a complicated, unpredictable period, but it is in just such times that governments are trying to increase awareness by means of their actions. Sadly, these have not always been successful. Instead, they have been on the most alert and have rarely looked further into the past than a few days and reacting to evolution at any given moment. It is my hope that the government will learn a lesson from this that it will be a huge project for the future on how to handle such conditions. Granted, it is important to remember that the consequences of a blow may not appear until the threat is over. I am concerned about how small governments seem to look at these factors, as is hardly the case over the next few days or the next two to three weeks. Will the authorities wait for all the negative consequences of the treatment strategy and the epidemic itself to be identified, or do they have a plan? Finally, it is important that we learn a lesson from the past two years, a lesson that we will offer next time we have to deal with similar epidemics or similar traumas. I believe that in the epidemic it has been easy to lose sight of the basics of our much important community, the rights of the citizens. It is understandable not only for the public but also for the government to want to turn them aside temporarily but even be allowed and necessary in certain circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is not supposed to be easy, and it should never be easy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter for this discussion. It's a good time. The recording of a talk at the highest. A health minister had not become available on the Internet, but I almost fell off my chair in the office when he opened his talk about the situation and actions that we were now under the subjugation of a nation, not because of the condition of the Land hospital. I just want to pray to the highest. A minister in his second speech is going to consider this viewpoint a little detail if I did not misunderstand him. I see at the top. A minister shakes his head, so I'm glad that I've been misheard about the beginning of a talk. Minister. I'd like to point out a case that lies here, where the first carrier is young. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. This is the bill for the legislation on the conversion of disease laws, where the entire assembly of the Independence Party, looks to me, outside of the Minister and President of the Generals, suggest a change in the control law. It says, by permission of the president: A decision on the rules of the Council shall be made: Section 12. and the provision of this on the World Health Committee before they go into effect or as soon as possible may not be applied. This situation has been under way for about two years, and now the largest members of the board propose a proposal like this. It can be understood as being the highest. Was this practice rejected by a minister of welfare in the early stages? I give myself a request of the subject must have been made by members of the Independence Party, since the entire body of members has reason to submit a legalized proposal for this material. It'd be interesting if it was the highest. A minister would be involved in his second speech whether these issues were discussed between him and the largest member of the administration party, the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying it's a happy thing that tomorrow's offline is coming, and it's in my mind very important that it be clear and it'll be timed if it's not to get off. It will help people and businesses to understand the landscape. But I would like to discuss some of the lessons for us here at the council. I want to start by mentioning the obvious, I feel that society and society as a whole passed the test, and we know well who we are in debt to; health workers and others who have been in front of us. However, during the early stages of the epidemic, the need for the Agency to provide information on the basis of the treatment measures taken. We remember that the situation was more difficult, that vaccines had not been ensured, and that vaccination was not started. As early as the fall of 2020, we proposed that the Minister of Health regularly report the situation to the council. Thus, we wanted to increase the attendance of the council, that the minister explained the effect of a pandemic on health and health systems, employment, government affairs, and what were the social effects that are always becoming clear and clear to us. That's the highest. This Svandís was important, and this critical conversation helped to strengthen the council and strengthen our solidarity within it. This is what we have done since the beginning, called for a discussion at the council. The last time we spoke about the need for a health minister and a financial minister to gather before the council if the government introduced new treatment measures, but the initiative for the government in this respect has been lacking. Although one is afraid to mention Denmark today, it is now that the Danish government understood the importance of the council and sought to increase its arrival, it did not take the opposition to ask for it. So the lesson in my mind is very clear: A well - documented discussion is not to be feared, this conversation must take place at the council scene, and under such circumstances, the role of the Senate is not to be kept out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u48	A respectable president. I thank the advocates, as well as the health minister for this need. I hope it turns out we're seeing the end of the Covid epidemic playing the world gray in the last two years. Blessedly, we Icelanders have been successfully engaged in the battle, and it is vital that we immediately begin to identify the reactions and face the future challenges of prevention on the land. President. I can wholeheartedly agree with those experts who wonder if it's time for me and the Icelanders to set up a special Center for Disease Control. The World Health Organization has pointed out the importance of a much better preparation for conditions such as those faced in the pandemic. It is quite likely that an even more serious epidemic could arise in the coming years or decades. The global epidemic has emphasized the importance of cooperation. The development of a vaccine with Covid-19 showed that, through consultation with countries, enterprises and science, success can be greatly increased. I think it is important to continue on this road into the future and further increase international partnerships in the field of epidemiology, transmissible transmissions and information, contribute to an even greater coordination in this country, and increase consultation with stakeholders across the community. Me and the Icelanders are lucky. We have experts on a global scale, and we can both impart knowledge and make good use of the lessons we have learned so far from our effective response. So let us remain optimistic and persevere, for there is light at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u49	A respectable president. We in the United States support the better time for the council. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A minister to illustrate the support of a case that resurgence is moving here today to confirm the need for action. I tried very hard to get it through the council a year ago when we were making changes in the treatment laws and will support it. It caught my attention in the middle of nowhere. A member of the council, Jódís Skúladóttir, here declared that the health system had passed the test. The health of the system passed the test with respect to Covid. There are not many deaths in this regard, but I strongly object that the health - care system passed the test when it comes to mental - health issues. What's going on in there? Can it be said that the health - care system passed the test when a 13 - year - old child with three attempts within the last ten months is referred to by BUGL, the emergency treatment of BUGL, and into a waiting list system that will last at least 10 months? for the next 103/4:12 months? This is Iceland today. The government has fallen on the mental health test, has failed a test to catch the public in Iceland. The increase in suicide is repeatedly seen. We don't even get the numbers for last year. We've got numbers for the last year because the surgeon's office is not counting to publish figures until six months after the year. There is nothing to report, a respectable president, nothing, when it comes to catching our young people who are in a state of deep distress when it comes to mental health. There is no word on how to catch people in general who have a serious problem with their mental health about Covid. And there's nothing to learn about when it comes to investigating the condition of older people who have been more and less trapped throughout the Covid period. [[The president calls.]] No, Mr. President. The health system did not pass the test. The government failed this test.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u50	A respectable president. Other countries now show great ambition in returning their freedom to the people. The prime minister of Ireland foretold that there would be no reason or justification for continuing all disease prevention. I don't know how the virus will behave in any other way than here. Here, there is a tight grip on all restrictions, the same ones that were handled about two years ago, and the ones with good results that will not be taken by the health authorities. But now the virus has become different. It seems easy to take harder action, but when it is due to be removed, it must always wait and see, own bulletproof data, and preferably take in many complex steps. The virus will always enjoy the doubt as we walk in our spiritual health, freedom to action and employment, and other important human rights. The leaders of today's current limitations are completely smiling. I am much concerned about the secondary problems of disease prevention, as are others clearly. Listen to me for signs of disease prevention, not of the virus itself. It is hard work to carry the same load, that measures are aimed at protecting the health and life and health of the people of the country. In the meantime, the nation's mental condition and life are lost. Business owners lock up, people do not go to the doctor because of the fear of burdening the health system with unforeseen consequences, and they do not get into action due to a medical emergency at the Hospital. The number of domestic violence reports is increasing. There is a growing number of reports of increased child abuse. This situation has to stop. It is normal for all limits to be lifted immediately, and I encourage the health minister to take greater steps to get back to normal society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u51	A respectable president. I'm concerned about my mental health in these Covid epidemics. I became quite speechless when I came across a story that was spoken of, if I recall correctly, a child who had been trapped by isolation or for 50 days. It's almost two months away. Then I thought, " Wait, but old people, have been watching how long they've been locked up? ' Has anyone ever asked about it or examined it? Or people with underlying diseases, disabled? I don't think we've been focusing so hard on Covid-19 that we forget all the other things. I have from the very first time that we are far behind treating and identifying cancer, and people have been hurt by it. We're a long way behind and let people blow away in the lists of working people. What are we doing to them and the society with this? Yes, we're making a transfer directly into disability. I think we need, or rather, to take action, and then we have to face the consequences of Covid. I was at the National Council with a welfare committee and there was concern over the northern population for the consequences, how to treat the consequences, how to deal with them. How will we do so here at home with no contracts with physical therapists, no negotiations with specialists? And are we going to continue sending people to surgery, orthopaedic surgery to Sweden, when we could do three here at home for one out there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u52	Mr. President. I believe that we Icelanders have been fortunate to have gone through this pandemic under the strength of the trident, powerful health minister of VG and our current health minister, who have followed our most skilled expert advice. There have been a number of economic actions that are important to people and businesses. Our health - care providers have done well, and other forwardants and public security and rescue teams have been successful. Private sector has come to our aid in this crisis, and Icelandic genetic analysis - all of this is a matter of the fact that we are getting out of this state and of life returning to normal. The people have shown extraordinary solidarity and understanding of difficult action, and even though it seems that there is now a loss of endurance in some person, we need to keep our strength to the end. We know from the handball that it is the survival of the final meters that is critical. We saw it in Dana's game last night when they screwed up their business. Let us not curse aloud but quietly do so and learn from it. That was a warning example. Let's keep going to the end of the fight with Covid. There is no need to be optimistic. I'm sure we'll be back to normal soon. I'm sure the travel service will flourish with full force. Culture, art, and restaurant services will flourish again. Indeed, there have been many things that have been difficult for the public in the country under these circumstances, for vulnerable groups, for the elderly, and for those who have lost loved ones in death. I especially want to name our young people who have not been able to enjoy themselves in the prime of their lives. There's always a way to be wise behind and say that things should have been done like this or queer. But you won't make it later. We did it together, and we can be proud of it. The issue of government in such situations matters, and all of this has been done under the strong control of the left green and the health authorities and the government of this country, and especially the successful nation itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u53	Mr. President. Land and nation have been deeply affected during the last two years by political efforts. Children play in eco-contamination games, the offices of many citizens have moved home to their homes, and the separation between work and privacy has become less clear. Young men have started school, and they may be about to finish high school without having to get involved with their schoolmates, attend events, and other activities of being young and in high school. People have not been around their friends, have engaged in leisure activities, and have been discussed with youths about an increase of anxiety and discomfort. Families have not been able to visit elderly family members, and the social activities of elderly, disability, and other borders have been reduced. That's a lot of concern. After a collapse, it was shown that mental illness deteriorated months and perhaps years after the worst of it had happened. Hence, the situation might be exactly the same today. I don't even want to think about it if the nation's mental state gets worse because of the consequences of the meeting goals. That's why I'm saying it. paritaprevir Vala Vólvó Helgadóttir when she talked about her mental health in Iceland. Today, isolation is known to shorten the lives of individuals. Studies have shown this. Certain groups of people are much more vulnerable to being isolated here than others. Surgeons have no doubt affected negative social isolation in society. That's why I hope to the highest. A health minister takes the lead in taking care of the people's mental health as a result of the burden of meeting restrictions and social traumas we have experienced during our past years. In that way, we save lives and thus become a happy nation. But it has to be done, and it has to be a plan, and it has to be done right away. We can't think what it's gonna be like. [[The president calls.]] Who will answer for this, and who will detract from the effects of the mental health of the nations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u54	Mr. President. V.E.G. When I tried to quote him in his earlier speech, a health minister shook his head so hard that I dared to examine it. With President's permission, it started with the highest power. The health minister's talk to the health minister is to say: ▪ However, I would like to say at the outset that I think it is a somewhat special relationship, and perhaps a full stream of simplicity, that the hospital's heavy position is the main barrier to our being careful and setting limits, that the hospital somehow stands in the way of our enjoying full human rights. I feel that at least fully appreciated during the years. That's what I said. Minister word for word. This is not in any way related to what we've been told for two years, the whole process of breaking the curve, protecting our health system, and so forth. We're supposed to talk about things as they are, and we're in this position, anyway, my understanding is that we're in this position so that the Landsaver and Health Department can handle the project. [[It's a team game.]] Now, we see that the project has been reduced to such an extent that we should stop this foolishness. We should allow restaurants to sell services to those who want to buy from that service. We're supposed to let people, families and businesses and artists and others get together and have fun, meet those they want to meet. We still have ten people's meeting boundaries. This whole thing is crazy. We're supposed to stop this nonsense. We're supposed to open the land. We are to lift the boundaries and return to the freedom and community we once knew. We cannot accept that this is happening more slowly than any possible situation we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u55	Mr. President. I want to thank all those who have participated in this discussion, the highest. The health minister and the chief. Councilmen here have spoken to. I think the red strand in this thing is just too simple that it's time for some serious shit. The excommunication procedure scheduled for tomorrow must take into account the views shown here, and we are in a very different place in the epidemic than we have been before, with this much milder species, with the high hospitalisation rate of less than 0.2% compared to 2.5% when we were responding to the delta phenomenon. Me, just like a what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason did not fully understand the words of a health minister here that it was quite simple to say that the heavy situation in the hospital was primarily a reason for the more severe limitations that have been thrown over the nation, but not rightly disposed. That is not the situation today, as I was tracking. I'm asking, "Why have we been evicting this place for two years if not because we're taking the hospital into account? " Why have we been asking the hospital specialists about the situation every day? Why have we been concerned about the hospital staff every day during the epidemic? And why have we been so worried that patients in the hospital, whether in the hospital for the sake of Covid or not, will receive adequate service and so will all who enter into the hospital? All of this has been to protect the hospital, to evict the ziti, to save the health system. So a word at its height. The minister of health in the past must be that we call for a further explanation. I also wish that the highest. The minister of health answers the question I raised at the beginning of my speech. V.E.G. A few days ago, a minister of finance said that legal conditions were no longer there, provided that were smiling. The limits are beyond reason, the average is not guarded. It's the highest. A health minister agrees? And if so, doesn't it mean that there's going to be a rapid reduction and no doubt more than waiting until next week? In case you get the highest assessment. Secretary of finance is right, we're breaking the law. We're violating basic human rights to corporate owners, their employees and their professions, their culture, their sports careers, by waiting here for a week and even longer. I would also like to mention that the epidemic has revealed health problems. If it has been possible for him, we must never forget that because people were forbidden to meet, people were forbidden to work, people were forbidden to hold meetings, people were forbidden to enjoy culture, art, and sports in order to cope with health problems. There was a great sacrifice to be made. So it is not quite reasonable to say that the health system has passed the test. However, it can be reasoned that the people of this country, the inhabitants of this country, passed the test with elegance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u56	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for a very good discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, in his closing words, declared what I was trying to interpret into my opening talk and stressed the interaction between the meeting boundaries and the importance of making sure that our health - care system handles the situation. We know this interaction. You don't have to say it any other way. Of course, it is always important to look to make sure that there will be no more inculcating than the system can handle at any time. That is why we set meeting boundaries so that we all run together. This is what I wanted to stress at first. We are then quite right in this discussion, that we are at a turning point, and there is good reason to be optimistic. We are in this pandemic to be able to make decommissions. Just this week, we made major detoxifications, which have to do with one of the main contagion measures, which are contaminating. This will ease the stress of the screening process, it will ease the stress of families, it will help to ease the stress of school shaving. This will ease the pressure of various activities. Will it cause increased infection? Possibly. We'll see it here in the next few days, and it'll be all twisted in the next few weeks. But it looks like, based on the way things are going down, we're gonna be able to get out of here, and we're going to publish a decomposition plan here tomorrow. When it comes to the way we interpret the law - it's only been accepted, then. A manager, the perfunctory discussion, did it -- came in quite a number of factors. It's social stuff, if we go to Article 12. disease control laws, and the elements that have to do with the obligation to eviction of the system, as some put it here, that we've been in all the time. It plays together, and we've had to work hard as a community. A complete assessment of the situation must always be considered, in relation to the conditions such as evolution, new viral variants, new challenges, hospitalisation rates, time of living, and so on, in relation to each individual situation and the limitations we face. It's hard to interpret 12. irreprehensively, that measures should be removed without delay on one basis that the trend will be more positive than we saw when the last rules were set. [[The president calls.]] You have to have a comprehensive assessment. It takes time. This is the process that has been discussed here, and we want the council to be more involved in the decision making. [[The president calls.]] I am very open to the discussion and suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u57	V.E.G. President. We hereby have an agreement with Prime Minister on changes to the Council of Control, increase of recruitment and its name, which was supplied to the Commission and Control Committee. There is no question that an order of recruitment is responsible for the execution of the Commission and for its hands. However, it is the solution to this matter and the compromises that can be made. This is not a basis for any special diagnosis but simply for the ideas of the three, or rather, of their leaders, of how to appoint stewards and to increase the number of stewards, as it was unmistakably fitting in these suggestions. But their responsibility is theirs, and the Conspiracy will not interfere with this council-sense proposal being taken care of here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u58	A respectable president. Here we vote for a case that involves massive expansion of the state's coven. This is primarily a political issue in order to increase the number of advisers so that the forward squad can get more ministers in accordance with the findings of the election. There is no doubt that the tool of execution can determine what kind of recruitment ship is at hand. No one's protesting it. However, the steps here are very extreme, and they are unthinked to some extent. Some of these are good, but the big picture is that it's thin, we're going to bust out the booth, we're increasing the recruitment. The variable was never taken out whether it was possible to reduce the number of recruitmentrs, never to be considered. I will not vote with this case. I won't get in the way of this case. I will be embarrassed by the release of this case, but I don't think it's fair that it's the first steps of this old government, this old government, to go on the way to expand the show, not on professional grounds, but primarily on political grounds that have to increase the number of advisers for the forward party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u59	Mr. President. That my knowledge was clearly in the treatment of the case of a government and monitoring committee for what the foxes were cut out when the ministry was launched, it expanded, and changed in the way available to this case. It was presented in a professional dress here at the Assembly Hall as well as in many who spoke to the committee. Others, however, pointed out that this is in crying opposition to what was at the time brought up from the collapse in terms of how the Council should be; with fewer, larger, and stronger advisers who have more professional ability to resist the pursuit of special interests within them. It is quite clear that the Council is being changed in order to respond to the outcome of elections. There is nothing professional about this payment, but it is the political right of the government at any given time to shape the Council on its own. So we won't vote against this, but the government itself has to be responsible for how the Board of Government is molded for the next four years. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u60	A respectable president. Don't you think it's best just to treat taxes well? The Contestation Party is about to turn out to be quite expensive to taxpayers. It is obvious that these measures are primarily designed to adjust the percentages of power within the government. Similarly, there is no doubt that any government and government groups have the authority to do this in the way that they seem to be divided. The middle class will not vote, he will sit by the release of this case, and its responsibility is, of course, full of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u61	Mr. President. Thus, in a second discussion on this subject, I heard that there had been no criticism of the material conclusion of the problem. I just want to make sure that it's been criticized, for example. has stopped communication from other infrastructures repeatedly being criticized. This suggestion is sometimes dressed as being a response to the large social challenges we face today, e.g. by bringing the energy issue into the climate Ministry. It is also critical. Well, it's something that the CDC's been dreaming of over the last 20 years, being able to hold this case on one hand. But if we were dealing with the climate challenges they are facing, why not bring the economic issues to the climate Ministry? That would be where the project would be centered on society's transition. Why not take the innovation under the climate department? [[The president calls.]] It has the opportunity for society in the next few decades. [[The president calls.]] No. Instead, it is an old - fashioned and costly chair game just to put a concrete box around a new minister of the advance party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u62	The president again reminds us of a limited talk period that is one minute when it is due. Senators make a comment on a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u63	A respectable president. I'm opposed to raising the budget. The cost is huge, and this is really unnecessary. At the same time, the government says that there is no money to help the worst in the country. People stood in rows after dinner about last Christmas, but there are plenty of money in such nonsense. We forget that in the past, people were in error. Now there is a government transfer on child - care issues between hallmarks. The result? It is always stirring up things that should not be stirred, which should be stable on and make things work. Sadly, the only thing this has done is cause more harm than anyone could foresee. It's a ridiculous steed that's not supposed to happen. Intolable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u64	Madam President. It's a badly worked case. It's costing money. There's nothing more complicated than that. It's a bad job because it doesn't explain how much money we get for it. Here, for example. being using various means to solve the same problem, some invisible walls of government. On the one hand, organizational matters are being united to one Ministry, while education is being distributed to three departments in order to achieve the same results. That's why, as indicated by your Eyjólfur. Ármannsson This case is simply not available. It needs to be done better. It's not perfect, so to speak. The cost analysis and the benefit assessment are missing. It's really missing the entire Presidential decision that should be made. The matter is not readily available for the council. That's why I vote with a paradox and this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u65	A respectable president. I have an off-limit in this case. She is aware that this council arrangement is not in harmony with Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. As we read in the deportation proposal, it is presented with the reference. I'm new to the council, but I would never have believed that this kind of work would be seen here. I'm very into it, saying that the government at any given time organizes itself, but increasing the number of recruitment candidates applying for one--it's been done. This was done in the president's decision on November 28, on the switch between ministers, No. 126. It's been done. It's coming, for example. ... thatSakísdóttir Svavarsdóttir. Seafood and agricultural ministers. According to this statement, she becomes the Food Minister. There's a discrepancy between the decisions. After that, the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers are sitting at what department? Yes, it will be at the Food Ministry. [[The president calls.]] That no one ever thought of or understood that the Ministry has the name of the Minister - well, that does not seem to be the case with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u66	Mr. President. I feel compelled to come up here and discuss the check-in motion mentioned here. Sounds like an attitude to Eyjólfur. Ármannsson I must be presented here at the General Parliament with a proposal to the President of Iceland to confirm the Presidential decision or the proposed Presidential decision himself. Separation 2. On the other hand, the law on the Council of the Council requires prime minister to seek the support of the Generals for the proposed changes in Iceland's Council of Ministers for Ministers prior to the proposal for the President of Iceland and the publication of the President's decision to take place there, and this is to be done in the form of a synonym. So this paradox is based on a misunderstanding. The changes that appear in the text of the synonym are about how to switch Iceland's Management Board to the Ministry, and I'm just assuming the general council knows so many and the current Council and its name. Following the approval or release of the synopsis proposal, Presidential order is sent to the President of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I feel compelled to come up here and reiterate what I said in my introduction, but this deportation is based on misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u67	A respectable president. Yes, the government can do what it wants, sit in the shelter of the greater part of the council. We will now see each campaign member vote with a financial vote, with a decision that is uninvolved, uncorrupted and poorly developed, and will likely be harmful to the entire public in Iceland, which will be subject to worse service from the council and expected from the institutions, because it will take the Ministry 18◯24 months to recover from all these brutalities. We're in a hurry. It is damaging to society. I got it. I got it. Government party members to consider whether it is wise to vote with this proposal. She's so badly developed and so unbelievably maligned. [[The president calls.]] Although the government can do this, it's up to us to take care of public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u68	A respectable president. I agree with what has been presented in the matter. Senators, you know the purpose of these changes. I'm going to state that I'm really worried about these changes. It's not just to be against it. We were particularly concerned about this matter before it went to a committee and described them here in the Hall of Congress. There was to be a search from stakeholders and others who were certainly not sought in preparation for this arrangement. In fact, the opinions and reviews we received did little more than add to my concerns and confirm them. I'm worried about this. I will not stand in the way of this case, as I agree that it is in the power of the government of any time to set matters in line with its political policies. I'm just worried that it's not what's going on here. This is not in accordance with political policies, this is not prepared well. This is not in harmony with the best order, and this is simply because the goal of these changes is not set on professional grounds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u69	Mr. President. The role of prime minister and the active application of it in line with the development of projects, new challenges, and political emphasis on the administration of the government at any given time is an enormously important tool of the European Commission. You see, it is important to reorganize tasks. It is for the benefit of society. At the same time, it reflects political emphasis. The suggestion presented here reflects it. She has received careful convocation treatment, and we in the left movement ◯ green supply will vote for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u70	A respectable president. I don't think any of us are against the ultimate. Prime Minister can divide the Council of Control as she pleases. We can argue about the form and process, whether this should not be a proposal for the interpretation of changed names because that's the only thing that can be changed. But what I think is, it seems that it's no big deal to throw away nearly 400 million just so that you could have more ministry while you had to cry out from the government 150 million to subsidize psychology services. Where are the priorities, tops? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u71	A respectable president. In the last two years, the world has changed dramatically. This has been the year 2011. Since then, the world has really changed. The minority speaks of us dealing with a new world with old and out - of - date tools. We who are sitting in the present government are further away. Some senators have been really worried about the development of the forward movement of that government. I just want to remind you that new polls show that the nation is far more concerned with the development of the forwarding team to the national governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u72	A respectable president. Here comes one of the officers after another from the side of the board, declaring he's not against this, but they're talking everything down and putting down deliberations, and I don't know what or what. Of course, it is not surprising that the so - called liberal is against this and that they speak on a cross. The fact is, some ten years ago, a system of government was created for groups and for the country to join the European Union, and it is not surprising that these same groups are defending that system. [[Up front.]] What surprises us is that the Middle Party has come that way. There's talk of money, and it's important to treat them well, and I agree with it. However, this is an investment, an investment in a better community, to cope with the big changes that have taken place since some classes set out to enter the European Union ten years ago. We're not going to do that. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u73	The president asks why. Parliaments to give peace to a speaker in order to finish his speech and not to engage in conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u74	President. After considering the case, what was the point? The board of directors and monitoring committees and hosted guests and comments, I do not share the concern of many of them. Senators here. On the contrary, I think the government here is both setting priorities and getting a better grip on the issues it considers most important during this term. It's important that the Board of Government acts in harmony with society, not vice versa. It's part of it. In particular, I think it matters for future challenges, for the fourth industrial revolution, that the issues of university, innovation, and science are under one hat. I also believe that nature protection and energy use are not set up as contrasts but as interaction. I'd also like to mention that I think there'll be a lot of improvement in society that there'll be planning, construction and housing laws put under one hat. So I support it, so I think it's well thought-on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u75	A respectable president. I think I'm compelled to come back up in a pit to explain my case. What's the point of 2 st. a song on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland? Yes, the purpose is to ensure that the World of Congress is informed about the proposed changes to Iceland's Management Board. Is this a document for the proposed changes to Iceland's Management Board? No. These changes were made through the president's decision on November 28, No. 126. There was an increase in one minister. It included a marine dignitary and agricultural minister who is now to serve at the Food Ministry. Word code two. It is clear, with the permission of a president, which says at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Akvor, a number of advisers and their names should be taken by Presidential decision, cr. Section 15. The constitution, as suggested by the prime minister. The proposal shall be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym which is already under discussion and payment before the release of the Presidential decision. That's the way the law is. [[The president calls.]] And an institution that has recently been judged by Strasbourg on one of the most important legislation established by Icelanders in the National Court may consider reading the law a little better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u76	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. Rafn Housing Ólafsson on her priorities, who she is. Meeting limits and social boundaries can be set aside with the meeting limit, but psychological services cannot be submitted and a list of children can not be shortened. We're going to go back to the ministry instead. And I'm just asking myself, " What priorities are going on, and how can we make sure that the goals set, which will then be measurable and can be considered, are beneficial for the land? ' Is this about to be measured? How do we know that this will improve? When 47 people died last year because of suicide, I wondered: " Is this the priorities that the General wants to achieve?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u77	A respectable president. The dressing should always be wrapped around the contents. The box should be wrapped around what is inside. But the contents are just not changing. It's exactly the same thing, but it's been decided, just between people, to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on it. Talk about priorities. We're sitting there sweating for days trying to punch in 5 and 10 million here and there to nail a budget bill, and then there's a package like that, just that. We were in a mud fight just before Christmas to try to reach out for Christmas gifts to poor children in Iceland, and these are the greetings we're sending them. I'm so surprised I'm standing here, and then I'm getting to the top. Ministers and talks about the European Union because we are opposed to this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What the hell is this shit? I can't get a grip on this. I'm against this, and I'm going to vote against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u78	President. There's a lot of whisks out here. Senators have come up and over again the need for the Council to adapt to a community, and I agree with that. Indeed, the Management Board's organization is designed to review it regularly and to make changes in society. However, for this to happen, much better policy and a much clearer view are needed. Then there is a vast need for solidarity - and I'm going to quote the words of the highest. A president from years ago, which I take to heart - so that it doesn't have to be the work of every government to change the Council of Government. The changes are too frequent to make firmness and awareness and to cause problems. So there should be no unnecessary ring. The Board of Directors must be adapted to altered business conditions for society. I am really worried that these changes will have a damaging effect on the position of important issues within the board of directors. I think this will lead to a change soon, before long, and this ring on questionable terms is certainly not what is meant when it is in the power of the government of each time to order matters in accordance with its own political policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u79	The President will still need to remind us of his speaking period in this form. Right away. Councilmen can comment on a vote is expected only to be one minute, not one or a half, or more, of a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u80	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of wood expressed a surprising attitude toward the Central Party in this matter. I've been saying in talks on this case at an early stage that I greatly rejoiced with the change that is being made by uniting housing and man - made operations and organizational matters into the Ministry that was formerly the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. That is a wise change. But in some of the final events there, it is decided on some wonder to separate the communications from other inner languages. There are these things that leave you with the belief that this is a political operation, but don't make sense to flow within the Board of Control. Of course, there was no need to increase the number of resources needed to achieve the objective of housing and construction, planning, and other related matters into the same Ministry. They could only be brought to the old Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. There was no need for a new minister in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u81	A respectable president. V.E.G. An inside minister came up here and criticized my priorities and said that this was an investment. Those of us who have been involved in innovation and funding looked at this, and I decided to figure out what investment was being said. Yes, there is an investment in the fact that one candidate receives a double salary throughout the term. It is an investment that this government can retain power for another four years. In what other way is the investment? I'm asking myself. Maybe the highest. An inside minister can answer if he is not too busy on the phone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u82	A respectable president. We all remember the contortionor. There was an eight - week discussion between these groups to continue working together, which they had declared in the campaign that they would be granted the authority to do so. The idea started there, and they took up the Council of Control almost like a puzzle, and then somehow the bites fell. This is not made out of the interests of society, this is taken out by political parties. This is not done to invest in people, it is done to invest in the pursuit. The cost is at the highest. Secretary of finance tells us, runs for hundreds of millions of dollars, the prenup business. The reason for these changes is that we left ten stewards to 12.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u83	A respectable president. I'd like to say that the government's a little pissed off today and just a little bit pissed, too. I just want to review a few things that I think are important. There are, of course, great opportunities in this situation. For the first time, a special Ministry of Culture has been set up, which has been called after for decades. I can't hear someone in this room who's in a position of government coming to celebrate it and yet has been calling for it for a long time. The current Ministry, the Ministry of Culture and Business, is the Ministry that will create the most remuneration for national preparation through tourism and creative articles. I am so delighted that we are making these changes and have to say, as it is, how some in the government stand up and talk about priorities. That criticism is indistinguishable, for no government has invested as much in children as in the worst of all in the community as in this government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u84	A respectable president. Hv. Congress officials appear to be trapped in the past. Where is your vision? This has nothing to do with what was the highest election in the last fall, not at least mine. It's about investing for the future and investing in people, and by reorganizing the system in this way, we will. At least it's my conviction that the work that was done in the fall, the well-developed work, gives us the opportunity to invest in the future. This is the vision of the future. Stop staying in the past and come with us to the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u85	A respectable president. I just have to come up and discuss one of the most exciting projects the government presents with these important changes in the seminaries. I am incredibly happy that I am taking progressive steps in the administrations that indicate the potential for practical intelligence, increasing the diversity of employment, and to the important support of the software industry, a sector that is sailing out of the fishing road during this ideal period, strengthening Iceland's status and expanding its cakes in the community. It is exciting and valuable changes that will be important to Icelandic society. The discussion here is at a very low point when it relates to what has been referred to. I say, these changes are going to matter a lot to an Icelandic community. [[The president calls.]] They will be of great importance to a valuable creation. They will take down walls between lawsuits and will do well for land and nation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u86	Mr. President. I admit I can't resist praying for the word when proselytists began witnessing to the council's president, please. paritaprevir From 2011 onward, Birgir Ármannsson and his 2011 speeches. Of course, it is of interest to see the members of all classes unite here in a lawsuit against these changes that are about nothing more than to use the flexibility of a law on the Management Board, the streamlineline of Management Council, creating an amendment, so that there are combinations in new schemes, while stressing the increased coordination and cooperation of advisers. I know it well, having been both the Minister and the Prime Minister, how important it is that the Ministry can work together well, and how important it is to make changes and bring things to create greater power and energy in this important institution. So I have to say, I'm having a bit of fun seeing this cohesion of conservatives. [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna get into bed with the conservatives today. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna back this up because it's a good idea. It's about progress and it's about the courage to make changes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u87	Control file!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u88	It's not on me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u89	The president asks why. Councilmen and the highest. A minister not to continue conversations from his seats but to give them the word that the president gives in the public discourse each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u90	A respectable president. Because of words at the top. Prime Minister, I would like to show her that the science says that a streamline of 700 people in the workplace needs preparation, but he is completely lacking in this matter. But mostly I come up here to respond to the highest words. The minister of culture, and then he's called something else, and I restate my request that the name of counsel and minister come here to the puzzle. There is no sign of a good investment in children when a 13 - year - old child with three attempts during the past ten months is referred to by BUGL into the waiting list for the next 12 months after necessary service, a vital service. This is what the government is responsible for. That's how she does in the health of children. That's how she works. She's dropped the test and she's just going to do this kind of thing. It's not a matter of investing in children, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u91	A respectable president. There's some interesting charges about conservativeness that fly here. I don't think anybody said there's no reason to change to, of course it is. All we want is an explanation of how the changes will lead to good results. It's not enough just to say, "It's gonna be great." They need to explain why. The explanation is completely missing in this council resolution and in the opinion of the greater part, and that's what we ask for, especially at the cost of money. If this money is not even explained, why is it worth it to spend it on these changes? What for? Can you tell me in black how this will bring you back a profit for Icelandic society? If you can do that, I'll be glad to vote with this council agreement. If not, I'm against her, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u92	A respectable president. I'm going to accept that for years I've been speaking for a special Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of creative articles. I cannot help but thank for the existence of what was once a tiny drawer, 10% a drawer, in a huge school Ministry has now been moved to the direction the Union of Icelandic artists and the entire sector has requested for years. I'll say thank you. I intend to, in accordance with the Treaty of the Treaty since 2017, that we are going to improve our relations at the General and then every group at the council. We all know here that this can't be changed. Let us rejoice that we no longer have a minister who can be consulted by a large seabed company, and we have a minister now on tours that is talking about business and future, so I'm going to be grateful and I trust this will be a good thing and let us not spend much longer on things that cannot be changed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 12 Government Ministers. It's a sacred number.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u93	V.E.G. President. Nice senators. I'm so sorry about the language here, I just can't sit in a side room and shut up anymore. Have you ever heard of a change in a ship's direction? I'm just asking. I'm a new senator, and I'm coming straight out of business. In the professional world, changes in ships are being made regularly. Why? Yes, it is to deal with changes, even in the community. I support wholeheartedly the changes being made here, and I am especially happy to see changes in the Ministry of Neons, trades, and university, as well as in the Department of International Services, where I believe there is a great profit in uniting a project under one hat. I'm here for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u94	President. I'm sure there's a lot of good stuff in this council resolution, in these changes. Some things I think are logical, that's all. But I don't think that's the point we're trying to make. I think a government going into these important changes should come up with a reason why they're going this way. To call it conservativeness that we ask for evidence that there is a professional basis behind these changes, that is a serious consideration of the result and why, on which reason it is based - that is not conservative. Motiveism is when three presidents lock themselves in a room and distribute some of their schemes to their imaginations. It's conservative because things like this have always been done here. We're asking for something new. We want to see stage shots, professional grounds, rationalities, data.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u95	A respectable president. This is where the top step went. One prime minister in the platform said that he enjoyed some of the points presented here. I've also been having fun with this discussion. One thing that interests me is that the Ministers of the Party, who, quite frankly, run a campaign, like, a campaign. with the declarations of the bloc away come up here suddenly in a pita and talk about the need for employment to increase the number of government officials in the government, increase the councils in the public and increase office numbers. It's a bit Colombian all of it. Another possibility may be that this refers to a great Ministry of Culture, a new Ministry of Culture, which is likely to be able to act effectively on cultural measures. However, there has been not one matter of Congress since the administration of the government, and the world's world list is in distress because of the restrictions and other factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u96	A respectable president. I would like to come up here and participate in these interesting discussions about changes in the administration. Now I've had experience with rural politics, as mentioned in my previous talks, and in the last eight years, the town government in Akureyri has made twice, twice in eight years. Why is this done? Because it's been more of a part of a job that's had experience with what's been going on and that it's important to make changes. Here we have a government that is working together on its second terms, and these changes are important and based on experience in the last four years. This has been about a standard government, a government that is not going to do anything. We're here with a government that has the guts to make decisions, so they don't want to make any changes. I welcome these changes, and I believe in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u97	A respectable president. Because it mentioned a new Ministry of Culture and that the government had brought nothing new about the status of culture, it seems to me. A senator who brought it up even doesn't pay very good attention. Yesterday, specific procedures were presented for the music and stage lists that amounted to half a billion dollars. We're about to change the law on artistic employment that becomes a special category for young artists. And I can also tell you what. The senator that these suggestions come from the grass root, and we have been in particularly good contact with our people there. Also, I'd like to mention that introductions were measures where we're extending the volume of resistance, so I'll dismiss this case by now. A senator may ask him to pay more attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u98	A respectable president. None of the above. Minister mentioned earlier is entering the council. It's one thing to talk about standing up, it's one thing to introduce something after a government meeting, but it must also follow up with the constant action that can be discussed at the council, vote and agree to be useful. That's just what I mentioned earlier. There's not only a matter of Congress available from the Ministry of Culture. So I keep my word.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u99	A respectable president. I've already traced it to the reason for this contraption, and that's the treatment, that it's not in harmony with 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Section 15. The constitution is clear, and it says, with permission of the President: ▪ The President takes orders and releases the minister. He will determine their numbers and switch jobs with them. It doesn't say anything about the Council's coming, nothing. As I told you before, I'm not against these changes, the government plans as it pleases, and it's absolutely time to reconsider the law of Iceland's Council of Government. It is the same with this deliberation, and only at school, a student is sent back with the document, and he is to bring it as required, according to the requirements of the law. I want to use this opportunity here and challenge Prime Minister to unite the two canals from November 28, No. 125 and 126, because he needs to update them now, that he combines all of it to one president's section with the document today called the President's section of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I would like to challenge the President of the Parliament to review the European Council's legislation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u100	President. At all times, if logical support followed this synonym, I would fully agree with the argument that this was simply the decision of the government. I would have just sat by and the case was her responsibility. But because the argument is missing, I don't have anything in my hands even to agree or disagree, I vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. I had so little time before, and I'd like to reiterate my challenge to Prime Minister to unite all the Presidential decision for the Council of the Council of the United States in a single Precinct, then called the Presidential decision to the Management Board of Iceland, signed by the President of Iceland. It would be difficult, understandable for the public, understandable for the council, and all of this would come out of nowhere. I also challenge the world of Congress to study this decision from the autumn onward, since the change was going on, not in the contribution today to the council. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u102	V.E.G. President. I'd like to complain that those of us who are put on side halls don't have the same chance of seeing the way votes go. In the two votes that took place here, we had no picture of how voters were going. So we don't sit at the same table as those sitting in this room. Now I don't know that it was discussed on the Presidency Committee for the past few weeks to change the arrangement of having us all in different sales, but I hope to the highest level. The President will take care of this, so we senators all sit at the same table. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u103	Madam President. I'm reporting to the General Report of a Committee that was assigned to review the experience in the work of the money policy committee, finance Strategic Committee, and the Federal Commission of the Federal Commission from the implementation of a law on the bank at the beginning of 2020. This committee was set up on June 9, with a reference to the provision of the provision of such a assessment by the end of 2021, and its content was to be explained by the council. The experience, safety and business management within the bank should also be evaluated and the potential risk of reporting. In discussions conducted at the General Assembly on this basis, there was concern about the fact that the increasing resources of the Federal Bank to employ criminal embargos and forced operations could lead to a reputation for the bank and thus have a negative impact on other important activities. The report of the Assessment Committee was distributed at the General Assembly on December 10, 2021. At that time, there was a busy meeting so great that there was no way to introduce the report here in the Senate Hall. Congress officials have had ample time to study its contents. The Watch Committee appointed selected individuals. Her chairman was Tryggvi Pálsson, economist, and former bank manager. Other committees were Þórhildur Hannesdóttir Jetzek, economist and lecturer at the University of Iceland, and Jóhannes Karl Sveinsson of the Supreme Court. I give my appreciation for the good work of the Committee, for in addition to data collections, the Committee spoke with a number of individuals who are coming to carry out the present arrangement as well as a number of other bodies, including Within the administration, as well as the representatives of finance and employment markets as well as the on-stage scholars. The product is this report, a detailed and clear report that will benefit us from an assessment of how to achieve the objectives established by the bank's legislation on the National Bank and further policies and decision-making of the role and position of the bank. Before we continue to think further, Madam President, it is helpful to review the trend towards the changes made in Iceland's Secret Bank in 2019 when the Federal Bureau of Nations and the SEC were combined and the monitoring of financial activities was placed under the Watch of the Bank of Iceland. The changes in law also made changes to the Management Board of the Federal Bank, which included the United States and the United States. The three committees that are considered here were assigned to make decisions on the application of the U.S. funds policies and financial stability in the financial department. I think I'm going to get involved in this discussion just to think about the shift, which was, of course, a fairly long, detailed analysis work. The interaction between money policy, financial stability, and financial monitoring was a major topic following the 2008 collapse. The government then received advice from many experts. In March 2017, a special team was appointed to reevaluate the framework of money policy. He returned his report in June 2018, where he found suggestions on improving the response of the national economy, improved theflation goals, and the application of the management equipment of the Federal Bank. This report included Discuss here at the General and the Economic and Business Committee. As a result, work was beginning to reevaluate legal legislation on money policy, economic espionage and financial control, and work guidance should be building trust, transparency and efficiency in economic management. The aims, on the other hand, were to maintain theflation goal as the primary objective of the money policy and the independence of the Court and the money policy committee to use governments to achieve that goal while making appropriate changes that build trust and greater transparency. Second, the objective of the change was to unite Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC to provide confidence and efficiency in the implementation of national security and financial monitoring. A new total law on Iceland's Secret Bank took place where these institutions had been united. They went into effect at the beginning of 2020 but were approved at the General Assembly in June 2019. There was a considerable discussion of these changes here at the council, but apart from the goals I have already listed, to unite the powers of the Federal Bank and the SEC would be an important factor in increasing perspective, promoting increased financial stability, creating a better basis for integrating monogamistry and national economistry on the other hand and, as appropriate, money policy and financial status. A new committee, a financial arena board, was assigned to keep perspective on financial stability and make final decisions on the use of national economists. I believe these changes have been beneficial. They have basically gone well. They were the most important part of the necessary improvements in the management of economic and financial issues that have actually lasted since the collapse, as shown in the report of the previous council on how to respond to indications in the General Assembly report. If we shift to the main ingredient of the assessment of the experience in the work of the money policy committee, financial status committee, and the FESI Committee, the findings of the Commission are, in the main, that they have done much more than they have been done in cooperation with Iceland'sTO and the SEC. The Committee's work is a delight. There's more cooperation between the burning of the bank. Information technology and data processing have been a great deal of success, and further development within the bank is being accomplished. In addition, the Commission assessment is concerned about the SEC's reputation as a result of the transfer of financial control to the bank, which lived in the treatment of the case at its own time at the World Council, has not been effective. In short, that is the conclusion. However, the committee points to a number of aspects that would need to be considered in reviewing these laws. Is the most important member of the Commission assessment. The Commission believes that it should adequately define the work of financial monitoring to be entrusted with a special committee and which components belong to the standard administration within the Sensitive Bank. The wide range of activity of the Committee is unrealistic, and it is in fact responds by a large forwardment from the commission to the bank manager's vice president involved in financial monitoring. It would be more convenient for the Committee to clearly define the work of the FESEC and the post of the financial bank manager. In this regard the Committee points out that only decisions on criminal laws and burdensome administrative decisions will be taken at the scene where justice treatment is more assured than in the present arrangement, but in such cases legal issues are mainly tested, and I may be slightly following them. Both would be given to ensure that the work of the FESI would be restricted to such matters, and its arrangements would be determined to do so. The second choice would be that the bank itself would make such decisions in a similar way to other governments and the remaining financial and financial facilities would be owned at one committee, i.e. It's a financing committee. This is a suggestion that needs to be examined, but it is also an important indication from the Committee that unless the work programme is to be done, it is still important to change organization so that the head of the bank is leading the management board, such as the two committees of the bank. I recall that in the bill I presented at the General Assembly in 2019, the bank manager was expected to be the head of all three committees. The factorial management committee points out that differences in prowess, as well as the extension of power and the stratified management with monitoring projects within the same organisation, are too complex. I also believe that it is proper for us to accept this responsibility. As for other improved opportunities, the Commission points to the following: First, financial status advice would have to be reviewed on official financial stability policies, as per the regulations of the Council. This would make the work of the financing committee more specific, and the market would receive progressive guidance. Second, while it has been considered that there is a distinction between the Sensitors and the money policy committees and the financing committees is a financial policy committee, as it is known, the money policy committee makes decisions on the use of the various Western government agencies that can also be important from the view of financial stability. The Watch Tower committee points out that the decision to use a controller is to be explained in accordance with the purpose of their application and to set them apart as a workmate. Third, the review board feels that decisions about the self-relevant financial demands that are made under the financial committee may be better off with a financing committee, but on the other hand, the authorities would be better established by the bank than by the Committee, or more solidly supported by the Commission. A decision - making arrangement must be considered to determine how to determine how to make a distinction between committees in case of doubt. Then the committee proposes to strengthen the position of the external committees so that they can be more supportive in the leading of a committee meeting. The posts of the external committees may be advertised, appropriate, and not all of them divided at once. Madam President. These are all important suggestions and tips to the government and the Generals and the most important messages: the vast adjustment of the law of Iceland's Secret Bank, of its governance and its harmony with UNEC has been successful. The changes were intended, as I mentioned above, to improve efficiency, clear responsibility, improve administrative measures to decision-making, further exploit information and further improve the quality of the analysis and perspective. At that time, it was an underlying goal to achieve increased cooperation by the knowledge that workers of these institutions could share in achieving the goals we would like to achieve in our small economy. Furthermore, the WHO recommendations were followed that through the interaction between the banking market and the pension system and, in fact, other factors, it might be considered convenient to operate all - sided financial monitoring within the Federal Bank. By permission of the President, I would like to quote the findings of the Committee of Assessments: The project until now suggests that these targets have been reached, at least to say, that the possibility of a united organisation to work on its legal objectives is far better than before in two separate institutions. I welcome this conclusion, but as the review board points out, there is still room for improvement. I'd like to say here that, first of all, I think it's a good thing to do. A financial and business committee called the committee to review this in a more thorough and deeper way than any available option is available here in the Senate Hall. Also, I would like to mention that just ahead there are two assessments of the operation of Iceland's Federal Bank of the Year. On the one hand, the external food is in line with the 36th paragraph. Act on the Secret Bank. According to the 7th temporary regulations of the law, the first assessment shall be carried out before the end of 2022. According to this, a minister should hide three independent financial and financial experts in the area to make an assessment of how the World Bank has managed to meet the steady prices, financial status and the implementation of financing. The evaluation refers to other aspects of the bank's activities, the organization of operations, and the realm of authority. It is therefore true that the committee who receives this assignment will look to the issues and suggestions presented in this report under discussion. However, the cumulative assessment of the International Cash Fund called in English, Mrs. President, is carried out by permission, the Finnish Sector Assessment Program, which is a comprehensive assessment of the entire financial system and including all aspects of financial monitoring and national language. Madam President. I think it would be wise to assume that decisions for further changes in Iceland's Secret Bank will be taken in a complete way when these two statements mentioned above are taken. However, this is stated premonition that there were very rich reasons for making certain changes that cannot lead to that conclusion. We now remember in the Ministry of Presidency to start researching this report and its conclusions and, of course, we are about to initiate this project in terms of possible reforms and adaptations, and then in the following weeks we will start working with the external guidelines. We will direct them to the Federal Bank and have had a conversation with the Federal Bank to take the indication of the Commission's role in the bank's internal work for a special consideration. So it's not unrealistic, I believe, here at the council we're working with proposals to revise legislation on the Federal Bank at the next council, but I'm not going to date it. Madam President. I'm not going to extend the story of this report. She speaks completely for herself and is quite thorough, but I reiterate that I think it would be useful for her. The Economic and Business Committee is looking into this report better and calls up the committee, since there are undoubtedly answers to some of the questions that arise while reading the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this fine passage. It's an informative report. There's a lot important here, but we're just talking about the experience from a two - year arrangement. It must be important that we continue to reevaluate some of this arrangement at regular intervals. I guess the highest. The prime minister agrees with me on this. I was going to ask you what the chief question was. The prime minister himself would be most aware of the vague task exchange between committees, both between members of the committees, and between each committees and the general government of the Federal Bank. It was in her speech that she envisioned some form of cooperation between the Economic and Business Committee and the Ministry. I'm curious, though, that there's no bill in the lake, at least not at the government Constitution, whether it's the highest. The prime minister has some perspective on the best possible way to clarify these changes, e.g. when it comes to using the cash supply system called the influx plant, to control short - term financial resources and to counteract predictions. The application of this tool is made clear in this report that there is neither a financial committee nor a financier. Perhaps it would be interesting to hear only a vision of the highest degree. This belongs to the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u105	Madam President. What is stated in this report is first of all about these policies, which I attended briefly, i.e. Public financial stability policies, linked to that as a matter of course. A senator here noted that financial standards need to be closed to review of that official policy, for this would make the work more targeted for financial status committees. It has to do with the aims of the previous report on the framework of the money policy, that the market, as it is called, receive progressive guidance. Then, with regard to the national ecstatics, it was. A senator would like to mention here, in fact, some clear rules in the law. Decisions on the use of funds for financing are taken from financial status committees, decisions about the use of the Federal Bank on money matters are taken by a financial policy committee, but in some areas, as noted in the report, these controls may be able to overlap, and in fact, their goals in money policy and financial status may overlap as well. There is something that would have to be explained, so it would be perfectly clear where the authority is. It's really, like, what? A senator rightly points out, experience with two years in a united institution. This experience gives us some evidence that there is a need to explain these shifts, by law, and about what I spent less time on, which is simply to have the work rules of the committees clearer, which is the job of the bank itself to set itself as an independent agency. Because of what? Of course, this is something that needs to be clear, as well as benefits to the general public as to the precise mechanism of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u106	A respectable president. Thank you for your clear and clear answers. I agree with you, and I'd like to agree with that proposal. Prime Ministers that the review committee introduces the Economic and Business Committee and accounts for the review, reviews all of this better. Here, for example. Talk about rules of conduct and things like that. There is one factor in this assessment that is a little urgent to respond to in some way and may be most reasonable to the lawgiver's doing by means of a clear law. There's a critical review of SEC. A large question is stated in this assessment to determine whether right and fair treatment can be guaranteed when a financial committee employs its administrative authority and makes decisions that may be burdensome for individuals and businesses. This role, in effect, is different from the roles of the other committees, so it may be particularly important in this regard that the exact authority is quite clear. I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if there are any special arrangements she will take to secure justice and to control this authority used by the FESH and the management board before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u107	Madam President. Of course, there is an overlap between the F.I.S. and the financial status committee. I mentioned the money policy committees and the financial status committees back here, but the overlap between financial economists committees is that it is absolutely essential that we ensure financial stability that the SEC is efficient and has an important role to play. As a result, and as noted in the report, the unity that results from harmony is surely being achieved in these goals. But what is pointed out is the course of wisdom. A senator is actually the most important indication in the report that it is physically similar because it deals with these individual issues, which could be identified in part by the Commission, just being part of a standard administrative committee and not being in the hands of a special committee in the current framework of a very broad field. And because of its wide range of activities, it is so vastly expedient that it is clearer that these projects belong in a standard government. As the committee points out, only decisions on criminal laws would be made, burdensome administrative decisions taken at the site of the Committee. This is just a very valid point, explaining in some respects the different nature of this committee from that of the two committees. At the same time, however, we must not lose the unity that comes from having financial stability and financial surveillance under the same hat, of course, much harmony. Of course, we can look at this. I will emphasize, as noted, that the quality of the work will be done, for it is extremely important that it be done in the best possible way. [[The president calls.]] We've already begun to look into the possibility of changing the law. However, because this external assessment is expected at the end of the year, it may be wise to wait until the bill is submitted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u108	Madam President. It's a pleasure to discuss these matters at the council scene. I'm going to concentrate on the SEC, the aspect of this report. But before I put myself in it, I'd like to say a few words about what is involved in money matters, and maybe then I think that we Icelanders have done very well with the management of money, after the United States government and the left greens did in 2009 what the right categories never thought of; to ensure the real independence of the Navy bank by the second means of money policy, by establishing such an arrangement, and by referring to the professional order of the highest management in the Secret Bank. This was finally a time to ensure the real independence of the Federal Bank and the money management in Iceland. All of our sisters have always been in the process of achieving similar changes in neighboring lands. I'm going to allow me to claim that these changes played a major role in securing economic stability over the last 12 years. This is to some extent undisputed because no one saw any reason to make any fundamental changes in this arrangement, the financial policy committee and its activities, when new legislation on the Federal Bank was adopted here in 2019. As I mentioned earlier, the assessment that we are discussing today takes note of the experience over a two - year period. Many of the questions raised in this report are that there is no way to answer them properly until after a few years, so let us not be too quick to celebrate a victory; there is no evidence that this is the right arrangement. We just need to keep reevaluating this regularly and to examine what is happening in the countries we would like to compare with. This applies, e.g. questions about the potential risks of managing financial control and managing money in one and the same institutions. It says, for example. in the introduction of the assessment, with permission of the president: ▪ During concierge treatment of the Federal Bank Act, it was held that the Court's reputation might be delayed if financial control is transferred to the bank. However, the majority of the interviewers of the Committee of Assessments reported that concern about the UN Bank's reputation did not work out and that it was overrated. It's a matter of nature that it's all too early now two years later to make a statement about this. Let's stick to the F.O.B. In 2017, the World Bank expressed some harsh criticism of the establishment of financial watch in Iceland. AGS expressed concern that the SEC somehow was too dependent on the politicians. I'm going to quote a word in the declaration of the International Remuneration Fund, by permission of a president: The Department of Justice is not prepared properly from the political program. Of course, at that time the SEC was an independent agency, i.e. She wasn't under the Secret Bank. The Agency's management board, which played the key role in decision making an analysis of economic crime in Iceland, was all organized by one and the same minister, who, of course, was very active in precommunications and, in fact, had actually only been involved in cases that had been studied in the SEC at the time. But okay. The first party to this highest. One year later, after the press discussed the trade of the person who produced a double claim, a minister was appointed as the chairman of the Food Board. Now all these institutions are completely altered. The SEC's been dropped under the S.O.B. However, there is still a financial minister who appoints more part of the financial committee, which plays a role similar to that used by the FDA board. That's where we're talking about a government government that's about individual interests, like we went over here earlier. These are e.g. Decisions to appeal to judicial hearings, these are decisions on the use of daylight and money, decisions as to whether or not a certain trade or business practices should be reported to the police, to the prosecutor, etc. And today, of course, questions about appropriate members of the committee arise in such an arrangement. The report suggests that one of the Committee's Committee's Commission members is an office manager for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that this could raise questions about disability due to the possession of a state fund in two of three business banks. That's one of those points. I think it's a good idea, as the report shows, that there will be a law on the Secret Bank's orders to vices for the external committees of the three committees, and particularly for the FESI committees, since this is perhaps particularly because there may be some considered questions about properness in view of the role of the committee, e.g. decisions that may be burdensome to individuals and companies, selective administrative decisions. Another thing that's pointed out there and I think it sounds reasonable that in view of the fact that various committees, in fact, all the committees we're talking about here, call for hard - finding expertise, and thus there may be some benefits to advertise the posts of the external committees, or some of them all, in order to promote diversity and that professional viewpoints are indeed successful. This assessment provides a fine summary of the work programme in Iceland compared to the arrangement in England, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. As far as I can see, there's nowhere but here in Iceland where financial control is fully placed inside the bank of cash, and there's not a completely independent unit. It may be interesting in this very light that this is an arrangement that is somewhat different from what the neighboring countries have developed, of these three committees; the money policy committee, the financiership committee, and the F.O.W.S., it's just a financial committee that is more than an external committee, organized people who have not passed through this needle eye, this skill to be passed through to become bank manager or vice bank manager. So I wondered immediately if it wasn't e.g. just to improve the reduction of these external committees so these proportions are at least The same in all three committees. So, in view of all of this, you wonder whether these words that I quoted earlier in the World Bank declaration, the Department of Justice is not clinically injected from the political program, perhaps to some extent still so, and if they can't be done even better now when we re-evaluate this arrangement and change it to the better next. Because if there is any activity that should be of particular importance to the political community, so to speak, it is this activity that is at the FESEC where these specific individual administrative decisions are taken. I'm not gonna keep it any further today and thank you for this fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u109	Madam President. Iceland's Secret Bank Act was adopted here at the General Assembly in June 2019, as we have seen. The law was based on the detailed proposals made by a team on the reevaluation of the money policy presented in June 2018. Prior to that, there had been tremendous work, various reports had been written, and foreign experts, foreign and foreign, were working on it. It was then the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and Reorganization of the financial system that made up the decision in October 2018 to start a review of the legal environment or the legal framework of national response and financial monitoring. As a result, the prime minister appointed the project manager to supervise the revision. I participated in the work that took place here at the head of the Economic and Business Committee that received the bill for discussion. I think it is safe for me to say that, if ever, the matter was as well prepared for the council as the bill laid before the council by the prime minister. The Economic and Business Committee certainly made many changes to the bill in agreement with the Secret Bank, but especially the Prime Minister and financial secretary, taking into account various indications in the panels. In the work of the committees, a high priority was given to increasing transparency in the activities of the Federal Bank. Among other things, all the committees of the Federal Committee, not just the money conference committee, but financial emissary and financial emissary, arrived regularly at open meetings before the Senate Committee. In addition, the report presented here, this review, was suggested to be conducted. The 3rd. regarding the bill, the majority of the committee met the smaller section for which I don't think there are many precedents and adopted very many of the proposed changes. So we can ask ourselves, " Did all these adjustments have been reasonable, that is another matter? ' However, I felt that this work was done by the Committee - of course, we did not agree on these laws, but we met in many important matters. Most of the items came together in the smaller section, and I think the adjustments were made in six articles. The deal with the law was a turning point. Although people rightly point out that not a long time has passed, I believe that it is safe to say that it has been successful. But at the same time, we have to realize that there may be some offenders that we need to consider. The greatest step, of course, was that all national ecstatics, along with the monarchy, became custody of a single institution. All precautions and analyses that led to decision became more efficient and better than ever before. I am personally convinced that experience with these new laws shows that it was the right decision and the wise thing to unite the Federal Bureau of Nations and the SEC. But as I said before, there may be some flaws we have to crop off. In itself, there was no other way to expect. This is precisely why a financial and business committee was initially united to set up temporary legal requirements on the order of the assessment committee, which has now provided a good report and needed indications. If you can draw conclusions from the review board's conclusions, I think there may be a need to reevaluate arrangements when it comes to the financial committee, its projects. I think it would be wise for a financial and business committee to start planning and discussions about it and to work on it. I find it simple that when the report by the Independent Review Committee, which is used as a legal obligation every five years, the Committee has to follow, most likely at the beginning of a new year or during the first part of a new year, to take into account the bill on the changes to the laws of the World Bank that may have some mistakes or might be on a better route than we left. The report we will discuss here shows that each of the projects of the UN needs to be entrusted with a special committee and which of them belongs to a standard administration within the Federal Bank. It is noted that the current framework for the global workspace of the Committee is unrealistic and, in fact, respondent to it, is presented, with a broad supply from the Commission to the financial bank manager of the FEC. It is clear to the Court's opinion that it makes clear to the legislature that it clearly define the work of the Committee and the post of the financial bank manager of the FDA. It also points out that the Committee's topic, i.e. The financing committees are of a different nature, that large numbers of them are, as I said before, decisions in the administrative affairs of the surveillance parties. However, I'm also going to allow myself to agree with the review board that if there is no improvement in the financial security committee, and possibly also to better define the financial status committee, move a project to and explain it better, at least making these changes, as was suggested in the original prime minister's bill, and in the other two committees, the money policy committee, and the financing committee. This is quite clear, and that is a clear experience over the course of the two years - and I think we don't need more than two years to see that different pretences create complications, and that also makes the intricate exposition of power. And the stratified monitoring management system within the same organisation will converge all of this, as the review board points out. With the permission of a president, I'm going to quote a word - out report that says: The decision - making committee is concerned that the Lawgiver's setting is not the best choice. The seminars, the administration of power, and the position of members of the Committee to take an active part in decisions that may be involved in terms of individual and business punishments may be considered insufficient. In part, interviews by the Committee of Assessments have confirmed this concern. Madam President. As I told you earlier, I loved it, if I may say so, and interesting to be allowed to participate in the great work being carried out on a financial and business committee in the payment of a bill at the highest level. Prime Minister, 2019 C.E. Because I can't afford to sit on a financial and business committee I'm kind of terrified of the committee being able to cope with the changes, perhaps not as extensive as before, I don't hope, for no reason. Within a year, however, it may be necessary to skim off, or the habit that we agree to correct. But I'm amazed. The Economic and Business Committee to request that the authors of the report come to the Committee to explain the main results and that the committee does not sit there but also wishes that the bank manager and members of the Committee should appear to the committee and to the independent experts, whom we better have many. I'm telling you that if a man stands there's gonna be a lot of work to deal with the task of tailoring off the failings that I seem to be showing up. Of course, we should have the courage and strength to do so, even if only two years have passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u110	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for this report, which is both important and delicate. It sheds light on what might well have been done together with Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC. In fact, some had been flaunted before the institutions were united, but it is not the first to appear in this report. The Treaty on Iceland's Secret Bank at the spring council of 2019 was adopted by a full reexamination of the UN's legal environment for the first time in two decades. In a sense, it was time. One of the main objectives of the law was the above-mentioned unity of the Federal Bureau of Nations and the SEC. We have a small community and a small financial system in the international context, so it is important that surveillance agencies, such as the Secret Bank and the SEC, be strong. Unity can, of course, lead to a better overall view of the financial systems of the country, increased efficiency, and facilitated information exchange. At the same time, the united organization is immensely powerful. It is responsible for a much shorter and long - term economic system. Therefore, it is important that the unity is well accomplished, or changes in financial surveillance are predictable and trust in the Federal Bank is undermined. The changes were criticized by many. The FEC had earlier two functions, one on the other, the monitoring of those who care for and raise money and the one on the other, monitoring the normal activities of the stock market. The FEC played a vital role in our response to the disaster in 2008 and the subsequent building work. In part the Agency will also monitor the effects of the Council Bank decision making. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the financial monitoring committee of the new cohesive agency is independent and independent of the decision made by the Federal Bank to which the roles may overlap. Madam President. By the route selected, the ideas presented in a report on the frame of money policy have been turned away, i.e. to unite national economists and dictatorials at the Federal Bank, while the SEC continued to maintain consumer protection and control of business practices in an independent institution. The decision was never specifically reasoned, but various experts had warned of the possible consequences of separating those who are in a more uncertain position and those who have the means to ensure financial stability. The main role of the World Bank is to ensure the stability of prices, financial stability, and trust and a secure financial system. Its premise is that the bank's independence is guaranteed to the government at any time. Thus, some governments cannot interfere with the activities and decisions of the bank, such as making interest decisions. Whatever the political situation, the late bank must be able to work on its legal goals. The conduct of money policy and other projects of Iceland's National Bank will never be stronger than its credibility. That's why there's a lot at stake. Business control may cause the bank to become involved in a public dispute with an enterprise that would result in the loss of trust in the Penitentiary and the bank manager. Before the law was passed, Salell of Iceland, e.g. Strictly against the fact that the behavior of the stock market would be controlled under the Hunsier Bank. The secret bank is when a partner at a stock market where a government loan department at the Federal Bank makes a deal on the market with government bonds. For this reason, the Office Watch With the Stock market is unfortunate. In addition, by their actions in other areas, such as interest decisions and requisitions in the currency markets, the Council of the United States has an impact on the stock market. If something goes wrong, even for human error, the Scrollman would not be regarded as an independent patrolr who might examine such matters without any regard for interest. It is not certain that the arrangements for financial monitoring committees to make final business decisions will be sufficient. The report of the review committee that we will discuss here depends on much of this criticism. That's where even the two of them come from. to see that there was no time to consider all aspects of law on such important matters. Residents were critical of how short the time was given during the council session, both in talks and in committees. Among the things that need to be considered are resources to ensure effective work, legal security, and modifying the tremendous amount of power brought along by the United States Bank. For example, a comment on a blurred understanding of policy development is made to be carried out on the money policy committee and points out that the switch between the new Sea Bank is inexplicably blurred. This has to be done in the first place before any real effort can be made. You won't cover the well after the baby is dropped, as it says somewhere, and the interests below are enormously large. Madam President. Hv. A senator who spoke before me gave me a good tip about what a financial and business committee would need to take to treat and follow up, which, of course, will matter and remain very important. It is essential that the review of all these tips be taken by the review board and that the changes needed to be made, as indicated in the report. Madam President. The waiting bank has been taken into the arms a very powerful control tool to maintain the stability of the currency we live in, one of which is called a national economy, which makes it possible that at any given time the zebra can intervene in order to protect what is called a national economy. It aims merely to protect our unstable currency. I can't see that this can, under any circumstances agree with the conditions we've agreed to in the European Economic Area Convention. It has, for example. More than once in the United States, it has been found that the fund of pension has been more likely to grow abroad than in this country, but because it can have a tremendous impact on the crews of the Crown, the Secret Bank has been in charge of this so - called national language system and is able at any given time to intervene and prevent the use of pensions from working a pound for the benefit of its clients. There's a complexity that needs to be examined, which I think is important for us to throw ourselves on and think about. Maybe we're going too far to maintain a currency I'd long ago wish I'd been free.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u111	President. I would like to draw special attention to section 8.2 Support to external members of this report. QA is one of my main interests in Icelandic administration and only politics as a whole. Quality control is two of these in general; internal quality control and external quality control. Internal quality control is about documenting, making it clear when it comes up, who takes responsibility, and who continues to work, and when done correctly, etc. This should be clear so that those outside, who are independent, can come in after, and testify that everything is well done, that the bites are not being brought back or are willing to do something because something was unpredictable or something like that, i.e. that when something is unpredictable, it is put in the correct decision-making process and the right quality process. I'm going to go over the text of the report, with President's permission: The members of the committee appointed by their minister are expected to be employed in most cases as secondary or secondary. As a result of their position, the external committees do not have the same access as internal committees to staff the Federal Bank, thereby providing knowledge and data. - It's key here, data. Then it must be remembered that the appearance of the external committees is not only to promote the criticism of coverage and undisputed communication but also to distribute power, so it is important that the external members of the committee have good support and a position to do their most important work. This is an enormously important part. This is to prevent people from focusing too much and missing out on the bigger picture. Go on says: From the above, it is important to ensure that external committees have access to all the information they consider necessary to form an independent opinion of what is discussed in each committee. This was to be made up in the discussions of the Committee on Economic Commission and the Financial Strategies Committee that the data would be too late for the external committees, thereby allowing little time for them to enter into matters before meeting the committees. - Very classic here, at the council, we even get the data when we meet. Visitors present a meeting and they have the right data: please, here are the data. How should a person really be able to look at and criticize things at that time? That subject is underneath here. This is especially serious in our work because our most common intelligence management is the Ministry and the Ministry is the institutions we need to monitor. People must see the possibility of a certain hide-and-seek. There's nothing more complicated than that, I don't hide it; there's simply a temptation problem to not tell the whole story if something goes wrong. That is why it is so important that everything is documented and that it is very clear what our access to information is. There are information laws and laws about informers and such things just so that people can report or get information when they're being cheated, where there's something they don't talk about. Go on says: Then came the comment that meetings were too much to attend, and in reality there was not enough room to exchange opinions within the time of the discovery. This is another big find here at the council. They're loaded up on the program, and then there's just a guest from a guest who comes up with data and evidence and never has time for a discussion or a thought about what's being suggested. It's very classic. And it continues: The Commission believes that this can be improved, but it should be noted that in the discussions of the Committee, a full willingness was made to do so by the Sensitors. That's the same thing. When you point this out, the doctors'will always want to send out the presentation two days earlier or so. But then it just never happens. I just don't believe it when people say that because it doesn't. It's been said many times, but it's just, "Wolf, wolf." And then nothing ever comes to me after all. Everyone says, "Yeah, listen to me great. But that's just a lie. But then finally it turns out that the caller, the úlfur was true, but we lose the kid because we don't believe what he says. I have this problem. I've stopped believing that the evidence is on time so I can check it out. I don't think so anymore, and it's pretty lame. It really changes the way you think, i.e. how I get close to my job, and that's really bad. I don't want to work like this. But I am made to work that way because of the circumstances that are offered. Go on, with President's permission: It must be noted that large amounts of unsatisfactory data are not sufficient to deliver. The position of the external committees means that a summary and analysis, even of their own initiatives, can be of great importance. This is another beat like this: here's a data drop, go ahead, get your ass together. When committees of financial status committees are making decisions, they make decisions based on a set analysis. From these analyses, it should be clear what conclusions can be drawn from them, that should only be beneficial. When access is not available to such data, in the case above, e.g. Nothing obvious to the fact that this order solves all problems, you have to ask: How was that decision made? Clearly, it was taken out, not from data, but from night to night. That's the only explanation: I think. Sometimes it is all right and it can be a political decision to do just as you feel. However, there is a very critical decision when there is a possibility that you could add data to support one decision over another. Go on says: A further statement by the review committee showed that there may be a need for special attention to the support of external committees when starting work for committees. The purpose of this would be to ensure that they initially receive the support and the instruction needed to make sure that their contributions are of sufficient importance to the more experienced ones. - It's also very familiar from the council. However, in interviews it was also noted that in the case of financial status committees, where all the external committees are new, they were employed to assist them with information and knowledge. Among other things, they have been invited to a presentation meeting on a variety of subjects, in addition to the regular meeting, which is considered to be to be to be the pattern of the assessment committee. - More like that. And go on: ▪ Finally, it is not to say that the external committees are appointed by a minister, but because of its independence, as well as the obligation to remain silent, including the bank's affairs, it is not clear whether they can approach a minister or another member, they have some comment on the arrangements of the Committee's work or other concerns. However, it can be assumed that the external committees make comments on the scene of the committee, comments or comments from her chairman, and reports from the books at meetings, but if this is unable or experienced, the situation is the one described earlier. When you're in quality surveillance, and there are things that need to be noticed, broken, or overlooked, who's going to poke in and say, "Hey, you've got to fix these things?" Who is responsible for this? They're saying it's not obvious. There are certain conflicting principles, i.e. The same people who may have had to be reproved were also making decisions. This may mean that the tips are very low. They may be taken into account, trying to do better next time, but the wrong or the error is forgotten. There is nothing to be done about it, there is no responsibility. The problem is that it is not obvious who is responsible for accepting and responding in some way. This section of this report is very vivid, I think, for all I've been pointing out, and for the Piranians here at the council, and for exactly the problem we have in dealing with the Commission in the activities involved in this arrangement, i.e. that more part takes a hundred percent part of the programme, what more initiatives are being taken by the management and monitoring committee, and they tie them by accounting, saying, "It's just not necessary, etc. This is precisely the action to be carried out on quality control. Of course, we're in the trouble that there's a political bitch, too, and when the grammatical criticism comes along, it's just said that it's political, and it'slittle, in the way, being unsatisfactory. But often political criticism is also presented in the suit of moral criticism, and it is justified in presenting it as critical criticism. And how to know which is involved from outside the world? It's very difficult, e.g. Due to the lack of data. A third person who watches this political argument, whether it is a controversial criticism, may simply go and look up the data himself and find out. Listen, this is now a bunch of bullshit issues, like, e.g. In the energy pack case, total bullshit. Or in the national court case, where the criticism was obviously very complex, yet it and all of it was told as political and all kinds of things. That is the problem that we are in general that the government, the government, does not know how to manage quality control. You can clearly see in this report, they are aware of the issues involved. Committeemen taking care of external surveillance know what this is all about. However, those who have to be observed do not want to do so because they may be willing, eager, or otherwise, and that is something they want. These are usually the people in charge, and they do what they can to prevent them. I appreciate this report, but it reveals what I suspected in many ways. And I'm pointing out similar things here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u112	A respectable president. I also thank you for this report that we have at the Economic and Business Committee requested that they be processed to monitor the development of these issues. I was sitting down. The Economic and Business Committee during the last term and this was one of our big issues that took a considerable time to work. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who spoke earlier. This case was very well prepared when it entered the committee. The matter was addressed in committees, and it had already been studied very much. But as we should all be aware of changes in some way, such as the unity of the two institutions in this case, there are, of course, differences of viewpoints and only differences of viewpoint. A respectable president. I always thought it was pretty good, i.e. ... toassailtheFederalStatesCounsel. This was done to further the monitoring program and to ensure a complete perspective on these segregation classes. We were very busy with the Committee and discussed this matter, and our experience in the collapse of the bank was somewhat limited when everyone realized that the SEC was very weak to monitor us. The stories are well - known as the legal team of the banks met with the SEC, where fine officials who had nothing to do with the legal profession on behalf of the banks. This was one of those examples, of course, but more was involved, i.e. of our financial system, our financial stability. What may have been our main concern on the committee of our time was how immensely powerful power had come to a single institution. Of course, these committees are part of trying to control it. I just like to see it here that, basically, everything's been going well. We spent a lot of time, mostly in votes here, discussing a change in the Board of Directors. Then there were big words about how much this would cost and how bad it all would be. The issue on this subject - because we were talking about bringing the FDA and the Secret Bank together to a single institution - was very well prepared. The number of institutions has been reduced. Still, the lesser part was completely opposed to this matter, and that would clearly make no sense to any such reasoning. In fact, in a committee panel 2. A smaller part of a financial and business committee, work was on the committee and the preparation was commended than one category, the Central Party, did not support the issue in the view that some questions were not left to mind. But I'll just be encouraged to get a presentation on this report and to follow through on the lines and comments presented there. In these matters, I would like to mention a subject that I also mentioned when we were discussing it at the time. We are so often prone to look to the past, which is important, and we should learn from the past. But I am, for example. absolutely certain that we will not experience a crash comparable to what we experienced with the collapse of the bank. That's not what I'm saying that all kinds of things can't happen. But it's bound to be different, for we have already built up for everything that went wrong there. More important, such a powerful organization, such as this one, the Governing Body with financial status committees, financial checks, and all the factors in it, look to the future, and any future challenges. I mention, for example, electronics, the future of a bank trade, we covered, for example. a lot of small loan companies during the last terms and financial monitoring with that and that. So I would also like to encourage us to discuss this monitoring show that we are not only looking in the rearview mirror but also looking ahead, what opportunities, and also what threats may exist in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u113	A respectable president. Thank you for your report. I was a former employee of the F.I.A.P.D., and then I went to the prosecutors of economic crime. This report and these changes are natural because of the collapse, and we are still considering many of the posts of the collapse. I completely agree that the financial watch part belongs in the Federal Bank. Earlier, he was under the name Bank Control and Insurance Control. What matters in this, in all institutions, is that the responsibility of the head of the Agency is clear and that he is qualified, not political, not determined on the basis of a party relationship, but solely on the basis of talent. There was obviously a board of directors at their time on the basis of diplomas, not talent. I had that experience myself. Another factor is that the culture in the workplace needs to be such that there is the courage to make difficult decisions. In my work at SEC, including The meetings with the banks before crash shook and trembled at asking difficult questions on my side. Then I went to the prosecutors of economic crime, and there was something else going on, as well as a criminal case. There are three committees listed in the report: money conferences, financial status committees, and financial departments. I believe the financial and financial standards committees are quite different from the financing board. The SEC is different in its nature with regard to the work of the other two committees. The report shows that all decisions are to be made in the financial department, not just major decisions, as was the case in the management of the FDA of their day. The Director's Board of Directors, as the report shows, was controlled by the Management Board. In fact, it is now permitted to hand over to the vice - bank manager for non-supervising issues, and it is well known that this is the case. I believe that the F.O.S. and this part of the National Bank's work must be watched as much as the other two committees and the other two factors. I think it's supposed to be an alternate bank manager who's the head, clear head of the financial watch section, and that he has a position of authority similar to the director and has the authority to make any decisions except maybe major decisions. Then it goes up to the F.O.C., you can call it, or you can call it the Board of Economic Affairs, the financial watch section, and that it is run like a special unit within the World Bank on general surveillance, as in other surveillance institutions. This is absolutely impossible, as stated on page 32 of the report, by permission of a president: The previous decisions are made in all matters under financial control, and the director or staff of the Agency did not make that decision. I think this part of the old SEC thing was pretty good, i.e. that the director and staff made all decisions. The major decisions that would be a policy-makers should go to the F.O.C., which will be under control, and it would not be a committee that would be very effective in the work of financial monitoring. The key is that the head of the FDA, the vice president, has knowledge, a superior knowledge, and also the power and the courage to make difficult decisions. The same is true of the managers below. And that they will be willing to plead a legal case, if necessary. I can bring a lot of stories from my experience. I was in the money bullshit at the time, and I was in the middle of it. In the third assessment of FAFF in Iceland, the Prosecutor went to the Economic Crimes on Follow-up and was working on these issues. In fact, I'm supposed to give a lecture at the Bifrost about money laundering now in February. If you are interested, perhaps your corneas can be sent to you. But that's not the point. The follow-up of that part was a total disaster. Iceland was listed as a list of nations that we're not supposed to be at a club with a so-called black list of FAFFs for a few years, and I don't think that our reputation has gotten over and over again is getting better. I believe that we are in institutions such as the UN to have close cooperation with financial surveillance in the North countries and even make foreign authorities break up and express themselves in English. It's a question of whether some documents were in English. A fundamental factor is that Icelandic financial and financial surveillance has to do with the Norwegian banking system, the Norwegian financial system. It would increase competition. It should be such a clear goal for the Icelandic government to associate the Icelandic bank market for foreign banking with the Norwegian, the best in the world. It is basically the foundation of prosperity in those countries. I would suggest that this section - and I'm not going to make any comment on the other parts - on the financial committee and the financial surveillance section being reviewed, that there will be a review of what was good in the Ministry, the old agency, and how to improve the independence of employees, the head of head of head and director, the bank's vice president, to the outside forces. There was an amazing difference between the culture that I left the F.O. before crash, I went back in the spring of 2007, and I joined an economic crime department. Everyone knew what was going on with an economic crime department. These were criminal cases at times held in court, depending on whether they were likely to be convicted or not, and all trained men knew what was going on. But that's just not the way it was in SEC. I can take an example. You had to sit for a morning meeting because this was a difficult decision to make at the FEC, and then the value of the decision was questioned, if it had a warrant, and it was being asked for law change, if it was right to do this, and even if it had no authority to do so, it would need to be carefully monitored by the Agency's authority. I propose and think it's very important that these things be considered very closely. It is extremely important to have qualified people there. We can have any system, but if there's activity in the Agency, in the financial pool, with the banks to be monitored, it's just as well to let it go. I can take an example. These are often not complex solutions. I'll take Ictesave, for example. Actually, it wasn't exactly the SEC that owned it. That's what it says in 4 mg. 36 st. Acting on financial companies that it is permitted to start branches outside Iceland. The IMF, the World Bank Fund, at the time it was requested that there be a ban on the smallness of the Icelandic system. You could be banned from financial status and control in the banks. It would have been possible to ban the establishment of branch offices in London at the time. This branch office was founded in October 2006, followed by the reports that came, called the small bar, which was a report from Fitch Raitings, Danke Bank, the report on Geyser Crisis, then all foreign financial markets in Iceland. The solution to this small crisis was Icesave, where they went home and founded Internet banks. The State of England should have stopped it. But it was, as it is called in one book, the year of no return. After 2006, because it was allowed, it was very obvious, and it was just a matter of time before all of this would collapse. That case shows a certain weakness in the system. I'm not saying it could have stopped it, but it went up to the minister too. It would have been possible to stop it and stop it so that it would have become official and that they would be obliged to clean up their affairs in the autumn. But that was not done, and it went on. I view it this way, it's my personal opinion - it's been written books about that, that the collapse of foreign sources was to blame - much of the economic breakdown in October 2008 was a political failure. There are a number of factors involved, both in the control system itself and in the complete elimination of critical views. I remember so well when Geyser Crisis reported on April 21, 2006, after Lars Christensen and his partner at Danke Bank, the only problem we have is to date the crash. I just challenge everyone to Google it, it's all on the Internet. That was their only problem. But then people came here and said that there was about to be a crash, and they were directed to re-education and so on. It's very important, too, in this institution, and I tried it earlier today, to be open to criticism. That's what matters. All scientific theories depend on indecision, and any decision must be based on dependability; there must be evaporation; they must be able to withstand this deterioration, or the order's advocat's. That's what we used in an economic crime department because it's better to get slaughtered at home or be treated badly at home than in the courts of economic crime. That is how such institutions should work, be trusted, open to all criticism, can answer, and test their decisions against much criticism. The same at the Council. This calls for a very open attitude toward the opinions and opinions of others. It is very well arranged that Iceland's financial system has to open the window for opinions and opinions outside and, most certainly, financial monitoring. I'd love to talk about this longer, but I think these things need a very thorough opinion. According to my experience as a member of the community, I believe in many ways the money policy committee is a great need and has done well, it is interesting to read a report from there, but the financial status committee does not. It's very good that there's an open discussion in the community about all these committees. I think there's a need to check the F.O.S.S., the underside, very well, and even look for opinion from foreign experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u114	The President has received a letter on the reinstatement. Andrés Ingi Jónsson calls you again for a question. 135, 133th, search for oil in Iceland's economic legal history.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u115	Madam President. I'd like to take up the 2nd. on this matter to arrive at two, three brief comments. It is a matter of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is a form of prime radios that we have often discussed in this hall to be carefully associated with, since such cases do not come as snout as with prime ministers who are given three full discussions, a period of time on the committee between discussions and omissions. This case was recommended yesterday, and it went directly to the 2nd. without any contact with a committee. It has not been sent to comment, as is customary with the Committee's Committees. That's why I think it's normal that we confiscate this form for correction, we dissociate error testing of the law, as we can see, for example. conducted in paragraphs 3 and 4. This bill. It revealed that the law adopted here on January 17 had to be adjusted. As the report shows, adjustments in wording were made to a change made elsewhere in the bill, and the same change in pars were lost. The bill. So there were texts that were not consistent with changes that had been made elsewhere in the bill, and it is only reasonable that a committee would quickly allow such changes to be allowed to pass through. However, this is noteworthy because the bill in which these two errors occurred was handled at a very rapid rate on January 17, and it was criticized that it had not been responded sooner by presenting it either in December, when first discussing the need to postpone public pay, or simply proclaim a meeting earlier, perhaps a week earlier, when members of the council were generally allowed to enter the committee's work. Hence, the errors here being corrected could have been prevented by simply giving the council more time to work initially. So it is interesting to consider Article 1. the bill where the date is being adjusted again. In this December, the payment of the bandor in terms of budgets was simply a stupid date inserted, July 1, but it was due to be January 1. It's a very smart correction that needs to be taken but a bit of a scaffolding in view of the fact that just when this bill, as discussed in Article 3 and 4, was discussed by a representative of Pirata in a financial and business committee, it was used for example. to indicate that it would be based on a different date, but it was discussing the continuation of public remuneration; that enterprises would actually be granted a retrospective permission to postpone costs, based on January 1 of this year, but not on January 17 of January as in the bill. This was not agreed to a financial and business committee in which it was a retrospective legislation which is still justified in agreeing to involuntary legislation. That is why this 1st will make a new meeting for economic and business committees. the bill in which the feedback seems to be working now. But what I would like to discuss may be 2. the bill involved in the use of automobiles for their emissions of greenhouse gases. I would like to review the background of that matter. The problem that most of the Committee feels is to be solved when the Allied agreed at the end of the last year's law No. 133/2021, the changing of various tax and tax laws, the so-called income policy. Then there was a change to 16. what appears to have involved the mistake of 2k. the bill we're discussing today is designed to correct. 16th degree. The receiptor says 2nd. 1.mg. Section 3. turned the product of vehicles, fuel, etc. changes in the value of human vehicles and other motor vehicles, based only on the consistent test method for determining product charge, not the older method, of driving. These are two methods we've talked about here in the hall several times, and not to unsatisfactory, since it's a little important that we switch from the older method, the European driving cycle, or NEDC, as it is soon in English. The European driving cycle is a way of measuring back to the '70s, and it is a very simple or crude measurement of greenhouse gas emissions used for several decades. But at the beginning of this century, it had become clear that it was no longer available and that it began working on what is called the uniform test method, or WLTP in English. Then, a few years ago, the change became more urgent. It became more evident that there was a need to replace methods because European driving cycles could easily be abused to make false measurements. This was revealed in what has been called a dieselgate scandal where producers of vehicles, and it may have carried the highest Volkswagen, simply falsified the results in order to get their cars below certain limits in the country's warehouses where the vehicles were then sold. This results in natural things involving the public interest. For example. has been interrupted by the ever-growing pollution reform policy in the operating of vehicles. The shaped charge thus supports energy exchange by the willingness of cars as they release less carbon dioxide no longer reflected the real emissions of cars with counterfeiting numbers. They also returned less in the state's wealth where the sales of these vehicles were the highest, and the countries often had earmarked goods as a green income product, which would be earmarked in certain environmental and climate projects. Thus, Dieselgate had a direct influence on the force in countries to deal with climate at the best they wanted. Because of this, the palm of the hand was spit and the uniform test method was recorded. She is better, as it is harder to cheat, and also because she takes into consideration more factors. It reflects much better the environmental effects of driving vehicles. Then, at 149 C.E., a bill became the law of No. 117/018, which was intended to react to the changes on the registered emissions of new cars when the older method, the European driving cycle, was transferred to the new consistent test method. What I'm beginning to wonder is if we have to dig a little bit into whether it just made a mistake because in its bill's report it says that it wasn't intended to increase the stress of the product tax, and thus the income of the state's budget of the fee, which is a somewhat strange goal when one of the vehicles on which the company's product was possible in the old system, just with false numbers, and the normal time when the figures actually reflect emissions that the cost of a particular driver's license would rise. So I wondered if it got through the needle's eye at the council a change that didn't go far enough and actually didn't reflect the need for a change between methods of measuring carbon dioxide emissions. But that is the change in 2 Peter 3: 1. This bill, in particular. It suggests adding a new paragraph to the 18th preliminary rules on the product charge of vehicles. That law is a temporary reduction in the reported emissions of RVs - we are now in the very centre of vehicles - that emissions alone were recorded according to the consistent testing procedure. This law was first passed on to law by the approved law No. 33/2020. The law was not on the Minister's own bill but was added to suggest a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. In the opinion of this committee, the addition was supported by the introduction of the Association of Travellers, which believed it was inappropriate for RVs to accept large increases in products as a result of the recording of new international standards for the measurement of automobiles. We can stop and ask again: If the emissions were just much higher than the producers originally said, shouldn't the charges have been raised? The majority felt it necessary to obtain a more permanent solution, but it temporarily suggested the provision shown in the provisional directive to reduce the reported emissions of RVs by 40% while finding such a solution. In this context, there is one that may be mentioned specifically, and it is that at the 150th legislation, where the Economic and Business Committee proposed to add this provisional principle, there is no written reference from the Association of Tourism, and it is not to be seen that this special assessment has affected the economic situation of the state fund, on the change in the disposal of the community, on any share, other than that there is the Association of travel services, the interests of the vehicles that are expected to be the largest purchase cars, just pointing the Commission, in between them, that they may change this. This, Madam President, I don't think there's anything good about it. The same would seem to be true of the Committee Radio today. We do not know why we should choose to keep this law to the fore. There's no logical support. This law is that perhaps it would have been better to obtain it from a minister with the logical support and professional preparations that are involved in handling a case through the Ministry, in order that the change would also be through the reporting process at the Senate Committee, and in order that the Minister could also be asked - because the Commission says that it was intended to respond to an intermediate state to which a permanent result of the stress of the house cars - if a minister had presented this matter naturally would have been appropriate to ask: Now two years ago, is the hope of a permanent conclusion? How long is it? No, this temporary temporary temporary solution has been in the law for almost two years, and it still will not pave up the lasting solution that then becomes the more part of the Economic and Business Committee promised. In fact, the very fact that this is going to extend the law over a year tells us that there is very little to learn about a lasting solution. However, in a bill that comes from a committee and as a result is not fully signed, as prime complainers offer, it is very difficult not to just make adjustments, as is done in chapters 1, 3 and 4. This bill, it also holds material changes, such as those found in Article 2. without the history of which the initiative takes place, this change will occur. There is no history of the permanent solution to finance. Actually, I don't feel that there's enough evidence to explain that we're doing something that might prove to be some kind of a low-level environmental discount when you're looking further. This is what I would like to say, Madam President, and I will proceed without a bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's subject to such speculations and questions. It is true that this is mainly a correction bill. I thought I had made it very clear at the council on Monday, last week, when there was a bill on the continuation of public pay, that we all feel that it might have been something else, that we would have wanted to work it in a better space with a better time. I'll think about it. A senator will remember it as well as I do that it had to be postponed until late evening, but the work of that day was important. It was the due date of public pay, and it was estimated that we would have to send a life-saving line out here to do business and management for tourism. Hv. A senator talks about an eco-collar discount. I can't agree with that. As he traced very well, there have been two methods, or two standards, to calculate pollution. The house cars have automatically landed in the maximum warning rate category. And as shown here, the story has become a two - year story, and here it is suggested that it be extended for a year. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to remind you that this was a request for car renters who have rentals and are needed for travel services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u117	V.E.G. President. First about the bill, which was finished here on January 17th, I certainly don't want to go. A senator understands that I am criticizing that the mistake occurred and somehow wrote it on the committee because the council was placed in that position. We got the bill back to us on the same day and had to finish it because of what day it was. What I'm trying to criticize is that the council is in this position. That's not why. Rather, the minister who could have brought the matter earlier to the council. It would have been better, and then we would have had more time. Then this is the kind of mistake you're gonna make. We know that there's a big difference between working a case in one day late into the evening or that there's only three days or whatever it is, we would have had time to get better things done. For the RVs, this is a two - year - old law, a law that has never been properly addressed, e.g. The green glasses. We have these two measures because certain producers were environmentally modified, cheated on the European driving cycle in order to sell their cars inexpensive. Thus, they cheated the authorities, who thus became involved in earnings that should have fallen on these devices. They cheated on the environment and the public by buying devices that released more carbon dioxide than they expected and mistook any competitive position because the companies that registered lower emissions than real emissions could sell cheaper than the honest companies that were not cheating on the European driving cycle. I would like to ask if the committee examined it in such a way as to do so. A senator can assure us that this change is compatible with environmental considerations and does not promote any conflict between vehicles, depending on whether their producers cheated or not cheated around ◯disilgate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u118	I don't know. Councilmen are required to keep their time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u119	A respectable president. I think me and what. paritaprevir Andrés agrees that it was a lot of time pressure when we were working with a bill for the continuation of public pay. There was a lot at stake, and when things are at stake, sometimes you have to resort to unconventional methods. This may be what we can take out of that treatment, that it is unusual to give a bill here in one day. In the case of motor vehicles, at the end of the year, this remainder would have slipped out automatically, and this would have resulted in a failure to renew a camp on many rentals for expenses. I would also like to remind you, because the senator calls after review, that if the result was that the government fund might have been of the import of these cars. I'm sorry, but I can't answer for the construction of the manufacturers who cheated on the pollution equipment of cars they sold. As was shown in my case last week, we're in energy exchange and this government is going to do a good job in this regard. I'd like to remind you that in the case of the Committee and the bill that came from the Minister, for example, it was. dropped significantly indiscriminately to link trucks. [[The president calls.]] It was just the thought of pushing the country to clean energy, and that's when I'm talking about electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u120	Madam President. Yes, we can agree that the continuation of public pay bill has been accomplished under a great amount of time pressure and it has been necessary to complete it. But there was no need for the time pressure because the minister could have brought it up earlier, and I urged him. A senator to pressure his ministers to approach earlier. It's just about that, it's about us showing honor to one another, not creating a situation where we can't do things as well as we want to, whether we're sitting down in the Board of Directors or downstairs in Congress rooms. Hv. Of course, a senator cannot answer for the construction of the car manufacturer, as she says, fortunately, and no reason to bear volleyball of those who became aware of cheating in Šdisilgate and had to pay for it some, I don't know how to calculate it from euro, grillions in fines for cheating. But just as this team has never gone through being employed in the Ministry, laid down by a minister, slided by more than just the person standing in the import of cars and being treated for that sort of Congress, it's really hard to say that we're not surprised to let any cunts into this arrangement. It's exactly because it's about renewing this fleet of vehicles that it is so important that we are doing it in the best possible way so that the fleet, which will likely be on the streets for the least amount of greenhouse gases, will be released. The old standard just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u121	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in financial support law to a less successful person for a pandemic crown virus, No. 38/2020. On the basis of that law, operators have been able to apply for a final strength to the tax if they had to temporarily close or stop their activities due to the decision of the health minister on limitations at the meetings. It's Code Il. The chapter of the law, which covers the closing power, is still valid, but the legal deadline for applying for the grant ran out on September 30, 2021. In view of the reinstitution of the obligation of a particular operator to shut down or stop their activities due to the retroviral pandemic, the bill suggests that the time of closure of the strategriment will be extended to June 30 of this year. It is also suggested that there will be several minor changes in the law, which are explained by differences, but all are caused by a longer outbreak than at the last time the law was changed. In each of the main areas, it is suggested that this is comparable to the closure process and that it has been used for the previous period of closure in the pandemic. It is suggested that the maximum storage height will be increased from 260 million. K. of 330 billion. K. This increase is rooted in the temporary European Union support framework for the economy for the pandemic. The original value of the time frame was dated to December 31, 2020, which is now June 2022. The height of the budget is not just for individual species of trust or individual operators but, as previously, must be put together as concentrations of sealing from mid-Septary 2020, income dropbacks, borderbacks, and tourism. It is suggested that the host of restaurants, which have undergone the limitations of the opening season for the pandemic, be introduced into laws during the current council, such as the bill on deck. 332, cases 232, will also agree. All of the above resources fall into the same category of government support frames and therefore under the same criteria for maximum value. It also holds the same peak for the linked partners in business i.e. They share one maximum amount of money, regardless of how many people associated with each other are involved. Finally, there are two changes to the terms of closure parking. It is suggested that because of the failure of the operator's habitat, failure to obtain bankruptcy or wear a broken joint will not be allowed to allow it to fall apart if it is part of a fusion, a switch or a change in the management practices of the operator intended to continue in the business of the involved. It is then suggested that the reference period on official fees, taxes and tax fines be submitted and that the end of 2019 will be replaced by the closing periods of January 15, 2022. This pack is classified as a reporting state aid under the EEA Convention and the EFTA monitoring centre has been reported. It is expected that the impact of the current final period on the state fund, which lasts and on February 2, 2022, will not exceed 100 billion. K. The return of the state funds will get worse at this time, but funding for the year 2022 will not be expected to be closed. On the other hand, the budget of 2021 was not fully reinvented, and it was considered to allow transport of illegal budgetings from the past year to meet this expected cost of shut-downs in 2022. No data are available on the overall impact of its impact on state funds extending the lock level. That's hard to appreciate. It is suggested that the period of extension of treatment will be extended to the mid- 2022. The overall impact on the state fund of resources until then depends on whether or not more will be done for closing jobs and how much enterprises will be involved in making good use of the resource, which is optional and the nature of the case require special application. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u122	A respectable president. It is urgent to extend the time of the closing strengths and we in the United States support the bill. Of course, it reaches only a large percentage of the sector's activities and remains a number of banks that fight in the backs, both due to the viral virus itself and because of the high standards of control. Financial and economic ministers feel that there is no improvement anymore. Yeah, I'm on top of it. In the Castlight, a minister said that the legal grounds for disease prevention were smiling. This, of course, includes violating human rights, violating people's right to come together, violating employment freedom, rights of action, rights registration. Of course, it is now a health minister who has a health problem and is infested with infectious diseases but at the highest level. The minister of finance has the power to compensate for the damage he believes to be going through, according to him, the illegal limitations. I'm asking, "Why isn't the basic support bill made into the council? " When, for example, will it arrive? The originals on the cultural sector? And will a minister see to it that soon, but not after many weeks, the companies that are affected by the disease control that he considers illegal will be met?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u123	A respectable president. Only this way to establish the legitimateness of the operations, and these interpretations of my opinions in that matter, so that before the last draft of the meeting boundaries, very clear evidence was presented. Please refer to a pattern of events that pointed to goals that would need to be met in order to make the situation manageable. I have said that in the meantime, since the decision was made, we are dealing with a much milder variant of the virus, and it has been shown that in spite of much higher numbers, the predictor of the projection has not remained. I think this is a broken ground for the last decision to have a military service in the treatment strategy. In the meantime, the health minister has decided to take some changes in the environment rules. When we try to talk about the legitimate procedures, I think we're dealing with a little tricky. This is well described in Páll's view of the Hreinsson of Purge since the fall of 2020, for he spoke of the very fact that courts would likely separate governments from a reasonable amount of space to evaluate these things. In my mind, there is no basis for a disagreement as to whether there is a basis or not because it is so clear, on the other hand, in the study of a psychiatrist's memo, and in the real world, what was concerned about the future and then what really happened. So to me, there is no subject for any conflict here. But as for the general resistance grant, I'll have that case in the state of the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u124	A respectable president. In itself, I do not make a comment to any of the above statements. Secretary of finance. But we must look at it very seriously and take it very seriously if it has happened here that there have been control limits that we believe did not have a clear improvement, i.e. that the terms of the law have actually smiled. If so, we may be quick to consider adding to the limitations and also considering the consequences they have, for example. it's for the operator. I was a little shocked at this morning's meeting of the Economic and Business Committee when it became very clear that, in fact, the carer of the restaurant business could not expect any direct financial support now during the month's conventions or in all the next few weeks. This, of course, indicates that this matter of Congress was coming too late. The tax has not been able to cover applications and make the most of it when the need is most needed. Other companies that suffer from disease prevention are in even worse situations. I'm happy, of course, that tomorrow we'll be able to discuss that at the council as soon as possible. Of course, we must make the requirement that a minister who has strong statements that are actually breaking laws by means of a control limit, and therefore violating human rights, do everything in his power to cope with that situation on the economy side, dread the blow, and use it for that kind of tool.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u125	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have already delayed the pay of public pay for this operator so that they can postpone two pay days on the earlier part of this year until the latter part of the year. It has already gone into effect and has undoubtedly brought oxygen to many of these. I also need to draw attention to the fact that, according to the recommendation of a psychiatrist, the last armed forces took place in the middle of that month. All I have to say is that I think we have responded in a way as fast as we possibly could. When we met, we had a matter prepared for a council that was concerned with the food sector. We had talked about it from year to year that it was normal to meet those who had come under great restrictions during the opening season and that we reduced the threshold before entering into the food field in particular. But it was not good to see it coming to the end, as it has now. But as soon as we realized it, it was obvious that we would bring the subject, i.e. to give support to those who are being closed down. I agree with the senator that it is important to put the measures into effect as soon as possible for the general penance. We've been peering into the sea rolls and seeing that there's a little more than what was expected during the first weeks of this year, and foreign maps in Iceland. It gives us reason to re-open the general ploughing process for four months, as I shall suggest in the bill that comes into this council, hopefully as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u126	A respectable president. I'll sit down with a bang. A senator who spoke earlier, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and many others on a financial and business committee, and we've had some way of putting things in hand races and some assembly payment lately. I would like to remind you that in the annual budget, it was pointed out that it was a special way to throw all the boxbacks out, in which we were dealing with significant unemployment in many areas, and if we had not covered the virus, so it came on the day of mid - December that a large group of people collapsed because of a new variant. We have even. We're just posting paydays, and we're now going to treat the Committee a bill to support the catering sector. A conversation with the caterers, many of whom are already in extreme distress, found that they did not have enough time for the next Monday sessions. But at the same time, we received information from the Tatt's staff that it would take at least Three weeks to set up the technical procedures so that you could apply and then process the processing of applications for another few weeks. It has been observed during the past few days that the situation now at table level is not enough to cover all the groups that have serious problems in these days. There's more than a caterer. Close-seat strength, being discussed here, just doesn't quite cover it all. Not everyone has had to close, but they did not become an attendance because people are afraid of the virus. Like others, I'm glad you're coming back, but you'd love to see who they're going to reach. We have groups of people who are struggling and who are badly affected by the resources being made. The Mixer who's lonely, and he only gets a dobbles when the instrument guy has a dobbles, doesn't get a lock. He just doesn't get no jazz. I'd also like to point to the sports event. We spent the last time this morning at the local city council of Smokenes reporting on events from the sports companies, many of whom are up against the wall, especially those that run their operations in the winter, and their activities depend largely on audience sales for games. We'll see, for example. TV broadcasts, live broadcasts, at basketball games that viewers have disappeared, so these sports are in real trouble, and they need to be rescued. The possibility of supporting the sports movement would need to be considered, and it has certainly proved its value in the public health and upbringing of this country. It matters which groups are being tried to reach out. It is important to try to make sure that any victims of this epidemic are helped in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u127	Madam President. I agree on many of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator just in this case, and if I were a minister of finance, I would choose my best man, Hersir or anyone else, one of the task managers of having the best will in this case, support the infrastructure that we have in the wide context of restaurant services, room service, practice, culture, and so forth. It is a very difficult situation, and as noted earlier, this takes a little time, it is a little complicated to get to the point of being able to live. It was recognized by the government here more than a year ago that the situation was fore majeure, it was out of control, just as it was an earthquake, a volcanic eruption, or a destructive weather, resulting in the policy being carried out here. But it was difficult for many of my colleagues to get into that order and to get the suitable benefits, just as they do now. An example was that of the artist, a light - rent man, or what he is. These are the companies that are at work, and many individuals, many of them, are in a much worse position now than they were a year ago because they didn't want it to be so long and persistent. That's why I want to challenge the highest. The secretary of finance to set this issue up in some kind of priorities, some of the projects that are holding attention to those who are now about a month's time for possible irreversible failure because it is a far more serious situation than is likely to occur in general. And just as a person can ask for the opinion of the IRS on whether or not a certain business is in this category, there must be some kind of system where you can get some sort of confirmation that you are a solid candidate of the means to which you are available. That is why I think it would be possible to save many people, both monocytes, individuals, and businesses, from landing in black art and red, who would make their future much more complicated and difficult. Of course, I rejoice over what's being done here for people, but I'm just asking for a quick payment on something that would provide the resistance needed and provide the needed restoration, watching a Recontinental on the way to the chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u128	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying I'll say something. A senator who spoke here before me, Jakob Frímann Magnússon. We need a considerable greater degree of restoration in all areas of society than I am glad to be concerned with the fact that it is a little late, which is designed to grasp only the parties, business owners, and others who have pained to bind, especially because of the harsh measures taken most recently. I think it's the highest statement. Secretary of finance at the beginning of a week, that the premise for these hard limits is actually smiling - it's not about to happen, but it's the problem, the premise's gone. The quality of these severe limitations is no longer present. I think it puts all these issues, all this resistance, if we can call them so, in a little different context, and I miss a little debate about whether or not we're in position that the state is putting on restrictions that are not resolved and then we have economic measures due to damage in some sort of illegality. I'd like to see some sort of diagnosis of it -- I believe that it was rolled up in the Ministry and they've looked at it -- what kind of money we could be talking about in that context. I agree with the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance, in what he mentioned earlier, is that when we are talking about the legitimateness of these actions, we are talking about ecstatic things and people have all sorts of opinions about them. It has also been confirmed, and I think we all agree that the government has to have room in the time of the pandemic. On the other hand, when we have the position to protect the government's public money, the government's trust, the highest. Of course, the question of how much money we're paying out of a government fund to be unnecessary is being said to have been overworked. Of course it's also about that, and then I'm thinking this whole thing, that the promises of the action that are being taken by these measures -- there's an experience on them just as the preventative measures - could have come sooner to them the managers who are under--and it's not just the restaurant sector, it's the culture that's taking a lot of blow, and others - at least at least Have a permanent ground under your feet and plan only in the future. Of course, we know that some of them are running their businesses, after all these disasters in all the epidemics, almost from day to day, trying to get past every month in despair, in the hope that the land will be going to pass, and, of course, we all hope that this will happen. It has been very interesting to observe the discussion at the council today. There seems to be some convergence that it is now very urgent to let down a bit and give legitimate oxygen, we can say, to the operators, to business owners and employees, that these people can be able to manage their business as normally as possible. But it can be a little difficult to assess money directly. We do not know how much decrease is due to slowness of pace in spite of the fact that certain meeting restrictions do not directly influence business parties, business ventures, cultural life, sports life, or so on. But because of the highest. The secretary of finance is here in the hall, and I'm rolling that dot back up. I've been impressed by the way he's spoken this week about the legitimateness of these most brutal preventive measures, and I've asked if there was anything to consider in the Ministry whether it might be that the state funds have been in the position of being unnecessary to increase their expenses for these economic measures, because meeting restrictions and prevention measures have not completely fallen under what we can define as some sort of a moderate measure. I know that it's hard, of course, to calculate all of this together, and I also make up the same thing I said before, that men are just talking about their own opinions and some kind of personal position on when actions are considered legitimate and when they don't, and when they cross that threshold. Yet, it would be interesting to hear it better from the highest level. The secretary of finance whether the state funds are actually about to be paid for measures that have not been corrected, even for days or weeks, but are now talking about the reduction program that has been announced to be very careful. Or it would be nice to hear some speculation about that, if the highest. A secretary of finance would want to know if he could even be allowed to stay in the place where the State is working to improve some kind of duty because there is no longer a moderate measure to the stringent restrictions that exist in the world. Because just like the highest. A financial minister himself pointed out in his earlier speech all the numbers point us in one specific direction, i.e. that the situation in the epidemic is far better than was thought to be. Now there is a few weeks of experience that this variant is not due but perhaps 0.2% or 0.1% of those infected with hospitalisation. Nevertheless, we are still under such strict measures. I wanted to put this into place because we're having this discussion right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u129	A respectable president. I believe these are huge important questions that we are merely questioning, and to be honest, we must admit that I feel that in a time we have lost our sight on the legal side of these matters. Then I was referring to the overwhelming use of preventative sex and determined how we made decisions from time to time. Now that I've only opened the door, I'd like to say for a moment that I feel like I've been doing a lot of good. But this does not change the fact that we must never lose sight of the limits established by law in this regard. It is not only possible to do what seems most comfortable. It is a matter of weighed against many social rights, which may include. you are protected from the Constitution and about the freedom of work and the freedom of the person. It is only when a comprehensive assessment of the interests below can be drawn to conclusions that pass the law's opinion. In this regard, do I find it very interesting to wonder, " When exactly are we talking about life and health, written by Páll Hreinsson in his own opinion? ' When are we sure to refer to the life - protection and health prevention measures, and when may we be in the process of trying to reduce stress in the Land Hospital or other health - care system because of the great pressures it has brought on the whole of the situation? [[The president calls.]] Or is it possible that it's one and the same thing? [[The president calls.]] These may be too high - sounding depressions to take part in the debate of the day, but I don't think we are, so I answer, to remedy something that obviously has been illegal to date. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u130	Madam President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance is very much concerned with the answer. You might want to consider all of this together with these economic provisions that are being taken up and that the council is doing with the related financial expenses for the state's funds. This is the whole point. So I say, I've been a very great spokesman for him, especially from the epidemic, that measures would have to be a little more targeted on disease control when the whole thing was much more dangerous, when the threat was much higher. But I'm assuming we're in a very different place today, and it's time to take the part of human rights out of this strong and more into the equation. We are now, for example. talking about actions to a particular group that has been overreachingly in the position that he has not been able to handle his business as it should. They are often people who have even invested everything, worked hard to build a prosperous, good business, and suddenly get some condition that they have no responsibility for, perpetuate, good, orderly people who have run their companies well. We sometimes tend to, when we're talking about a very specific part of this, talking e.g. for bars or restaurants, so this may not be important, since we can completely refrain from partying or other such things or meeting at restaurants. Of course, it's just people's professional freedoms. I'm gonna let myself celebrate that men are taking it much more into the equation. We certainly need to keep on the watch in this regard. Thank you very much. A financial minister for the answer, yet the question remains, Is it possible that the last steps taken are to make us totally unnecessary in hurting people that we would not have had to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u131	A respectable president. It's an enormously complex figure, and one of the challenges at the beginning of the epidemic was that we knew so little, but we pretended to be learning all the time. But then when we thought we knew pretty much in order to make decisions, there's just a new variation. During the past two months, we have been learning the variations that have acted in a very different way than those of an earlier species. In an hour I'll be at the Ministerial Conference, hopefully to discuss just what to do about it. I'd like to include a certain member of this discussion, which I believe is quite important in the context of whether governments are overreacting. He's been here before. He must have even appeared. in the economic analysis, where we had a three - man strategy that helped the government to assess the economic effects of the operation and the epidemic, and in the fact that doing nothing can also have serious consequences. Allowing the virus to spread can create conditions in which people stay at home, do not go to restaurants, tourists would not come to our country if we didn't control the situation, and if there was some bad news about the hospital, people would be very impressed. That would eventually harm the bartender, the hotel owner, for the tourism companies. So it is, in fact, a moderate standard that has been applied here, which is of utmost importance and finding this difficult balance between not doing anything and doing too much. I think doing nothing would have been a tragic mistake. I reiterate what I've said before: We've reached a fantastic conclusion in our measures of action, on all standards, economic standards, on health standards, and more. But now we're in another round of new information, and now we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u132	A respectable president. I just wanted to talk it through to the highest. The secretary of finance that these laws on resistance and support are an emergency law, in fact, based on the decision made by Viðar, the Már of Matthíasson, that there is an emergency, foremanage majeure, and the crisis that confronts many of the people who are rightly endeavoring to come to the rescue now begins. That's why I suggested to hide the best man. Secretary of finance, whether he is Hersir or any assistant or project manager, to defend a person's fall right now on Monday, Tuesday, they get the confidence that their oxygen despite all that is enough to survive and not fall. Many who had oxygen to do so a year ago but no longer have a critical situation that lies ahead of them. These are emergency measures in times of need, and hopefully we're supplying ourselves with the end. How painful it would be to see them fall and perhaps go bankrupt or lose faith in their bank when it could be confirmed, as one receives from the taxots, that they are correct in this category or the other. I just wanted to ask if we could do such things because the will is clearly there and the situation is accepted. I would strongly recommend that all of these have been mentioned, the caterers, the lodgers, the cultural and social functions, the sound and light rents on their knees - that we would provide them with some kind of symbolic helping by means of them and through the tax manager or whatever it takes. Is this possible, topv? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u133	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussion we've had here. We're here to discuss a bill for retake the lock. This has been discussed in a large context of controlled and economic measures and for good reason. This is an important interaction. There's nothing to say but that we've been in absolutely unprecedented situations. I have to say, when you look back, we have at least a second. in general domestics, with business partners. We have done so primarily by choosing to handle a government fund, a joint fund, a major blow in the belief that by means of public resistance, when a cloud shifts away from the sun, it would still be a life in companies, even if they had had to withdraw their sails. As we examine the year 2021, I believe this has proved to be the right course. It was found that in many areas of employment, only a huge growth in the business began to take on people again, even those we had previously sided with in order to pay their dues or after experiences, even paying off the notice. Last year, human advice led to the loss of unemployment under the standards of a very enjoyable pandemic. We're in another wave right now. I couldn't foresee it when we were here to be held at Christmas that we'd have to bring in a row of bills. But I made sure that we would have the food business, especially. And you were worried about the culture, stage art, and others. A senator mentioned last came in. And when we're asked if we're going to be on all these sides, I just want to point out that we've already delayed paydays, we've made a scholarship to the caterer in a special bill for the treatment of the council. Tomorrow, I will take into the government the general resistance grant that has a somewhat larger threshold than those who ran their course at the end of November. We are suggesting that they will then apply before the date of December, January, February, and March. We are here today for the closing power, and we have already postponed pay days for those in the restaurant sector from the first half of the year to the second. There have been 450 million injections in different funds, and many ways of supporting them are being used to hold both stage art and artists, those who have worked most in creative fields of culture. Therefore, I think that when I have listed all these provisions, I must say yes, I think we have already played or announced measures that will come together to meet parties. In the end, we will always have someone who will feel as if they are not being reached, but even on a normal year's trip not all the plans go on. For example, on a normal annual trip, there's still time for, like, a year's trip. During the last year's failure despite a pandemic, there were fewer bankruptcys in Iceland than in the usual year. There were fewer bankruptcy last year than there were in the usual year. If we look at the positions at the banks today, it seems to show a pretty good position with customers at the banks. Few things are missing, very little is involved, and loans have grown very much throughout this pandemic. So there are many positive signs. I hope, of course, that after the Senate's payment on what needs to be brought in, we will be able to raise our feet with those who suffer from disease control or otherwise suffer a major loss of income because of the side effect of this pandemic. Many people are affected by loss of income, even if it has not been done to close their business or to place some restrictions on the number of business partners or opening hours. Many others also suffer loss of income. To date, however, we have said that there would be considerable loss of income, especially because we took steps to help the executives reduce their activity by allowing them to reduce their time. That's why I'd like to believe, now that we're about to go into this last battle against the consequences of the pandemic, that it would be good for us to build our resources and take them through the council so that some comments will be taken into consideration and that together they will help us to ensure a kind of bridge to a normal state. Then, if we allow ourselves to look beyond the year, we will have the latest economic forecasts, such as. In Iceland, a bank that came out this week, just drawing up an excellent prospect ahead. This is once again a cause for joy because if we succeed in getting a million tourists, as is foretold, and if economic growth becomes the way they are expected otherwise, then there are well bright times ahead. Thus we must be able to discuss our prospects, in a wide sense, as we create the last resort for this pandemic, hopefully the last resort, here at council for days and weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u134	A respectable president. I bring here a bill to legalize social security laws, No. 100/2007 of age-related bioenergy supplementation. Transporters besides me are Þórisdóttir Ásthildur Örrisdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Sæland Gaand, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. In 1st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ After 1st mg. Twenty-one. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: When the right to biodegradation of the right to the disability pension is to begin with, the right to the age-related microenergy supplementation should remain unchanged. Two. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The bill was previously submitted to the Council of 150 and 151, but it did not succeed. At the 151th legislature of the National Institutes of Development, Iceland's Quantum Association, and an older citizen's partner in Reykjavík and around. Commentors all declared support for the bill. The bill is now submitted unchanged. When a micro-energy pensioner becomes 67 years old, i.e. closer to the age of the right to start a pension, his right to an age - related disability supplement will fall. At this point, the person's pay is limited to the amount of age-related microenergy supplementation. That amount is today about 52,600 bucks. After taxes, it's about 35,000 bucks. and as a result, the amount of money is not very high, but it is of immense importance to these individuals. This impairment plays a major role in the provision of disability and is a major burden to them. Depending on how young a person is treated when evaluated for 75% disability, the evidence of paying age - related disability is that the recovery of the individual is long - term. Whether 66 or 67 years of age is valid, the evidence is that with ever improved medical science, people's efficiency has increased well beyond the age of 67. Those who are employed can use legal resources to take half of their pension or take advantage of their pensions, but those who are unable to do so do not enjoy such resources. Therefore, the age - related microemissions should not fall at the beginning of the pension period. We're here to watch out for equality and make sure that everyone is equal to the law. No one would want to become an invalid, to be born disabled, or so become an invalid for life, and that is not a reason for this later, at 67 years of age, the sufferer's punishment. It is a shock to these people to have to fight their disability, and especially in that case when they have to start fighting the system too, which, unfortunately, has not helped them in many cases. Let us see that in 21 st. The social security law on energy-based energy states, with the permission of a president: To those paid for a micro-energy pension, the universal biodegradation of microspheres is facilitated. 18th par. or a full disability pension [according to the social security laws]. In addition, age - related micro-replacement support is paid to those who receive a resuscitative pension according to social assistance laws. ........ mg, sr. 2. mgr., 2nd matter. 4 mg. 5 mg. 18th par. about farm time, energy assessment, and decrease due to income.] Budget replacements, cr. 2. mg, based on the age of the first individual assessed 75% microspheres. 1st and 2nd. 18th par. [or social security laws] or meets the conditions of 7. Law on social assistance.How many people do you think you're talking about? Who in God's name understood what I was saying? How, in contrast, are these individuals, who are weak, to understand such matters? This shows black on white how ridiculous the social security system has become, how much bit-down a monster it has become. I'm using this sequence just to show how ridiculous the whole law is: ▪ The review of the procedure is the law of 1. mg, sr. 2. mgr., 2nd matter. 4 mg. 5 mg. 18th par. --◯. It's amazing how this is set up. But it says: The height of monthly age-related disability supplements, cor. 1st mg, should be the proportion of non-invasive monthly microbiography at 18th par. And for the day of her birth, as it were. Here we go. It's not that simple. Today's 52. 631 k. in a month, and it's paid from the age of 18. Then it goes downhill, and when a person becomes invalid, we say at 66 years of age, he gets 1,316k. This extends from 18 to 66 years of age depending on the time of disability. Unfortunately, as I said, it seems that when people are 67 years old, they are basically healthy by the government. At that time, the patient ceases to be an invalid. How can the government decide that the person who has been on disability for the rest of his life because of his disability will be just a pensioner when he is 67 years old? The disability for which the person lived, the physical damage evaluated for disability, is simply to be eliminated. If this individual, who is 18 years old, needs this amount, 52,631K, which is about 35,000 bucks. by tax, this is a small amount, and we know that he will definitely need much more - if he needed it at 18 years of age, there is no question that he has even more need of this money when he becomes 67 years old and goes into pension. We all know that the older we get, the worse the ills that have caused us to run into disability. This group has also suffered the pain that has caused and suffered from failure to experience these elevations. Well, I don't care if it's something that's not available for this group. As a result, he too has been left behind for the Covid business, not inside the packages there. We're supposed to see our dignity in making sure that these people, like I said in the beginning, have the least chance of earning money and having a pension fund -- we should think this is their pension fund. This is not a high amount, and it is very reasonable. That's why she could be taller than we can start over there. That's a small amount. If right, when 67 years of age, people would have to get more out of their disability and movement. There is no question that they need more for this age than less. I really hope that I don't have to make this one more trip. I refer to the case, when I have finished my speech, to the welfare committee, and I sincerely hope that we have come to the point where we see the need to join this group, which, of course, we need to do. Social security reexamination has been under discussion. I have participated in that review in the Blöndalur Bönals Committee and in the last committee. Sadly, though, that review is always wrong. We must realize that we have a validated UN agreement on the affairs of the disabled and that we need to validate it. If we apply it, we are obliged to have those who are concerned with us and to see that they are coming to reevaluate the social security system. These are the people to live in the system. As a result, it is necessary for groups of consumers, the Organization for Despair, the Maturity, the exercise of self - control, and other societies to be seated at the table. That's where you start. Let's start there, start with the base, start writing and sit down and talk on equal base. As the Bank of Destiny says and has been their motto: None of us without us. That's where we're going to begin our tour of the Social Security Act. Then we'll be fine. At the last assembly, when I moved this bill, Iceland's Institute of Environment sent in a review. With the permission of the president, that's what it says: ▪ ENVIR describes the support of the bill here for review and includes the fact that the right to an age-related microenergy supplement remains unchanged when the right to biofuel falls to a pensional pension. According to current legislation, microenergy pensioners lose their energy - related disability equivalents at 67 years of age. The change would improve the position of disabled and long - suffering persons who because of illness, accidents, or disability cannot earn pensional rights in pensions and their retirement rights from the pension system, therefore very limited or none. This is especially true for individuals who receive energy assessments at an early age. These individuals generally get very low, or even no pension from pension funds. Clearly, the group of sensibilities who were before 67 years of age had to support themselves in a disability pension and/or were for a long time outside the labour market, generally with a much lower income and in a much more difficult financial state than other pensioners. This is the worst - reported age pensioner. In addition, microenergy pensioners do not have a choice to postpone the transfer of pensions to 72 years of age, thereby increasing their pay per month by 0.5%1, where contributions to microenergy pensioners are changed without an application from a microenergy pension to pension at 67 years of age. They're kind of stock transfers from one system to another into the pension system and become a healthy old man on a government basis. That's what we need to stop. We need to make sure that this is not one of those problems. A mature help also sent in a review. It says, by permission of the president: Abricultural supplementation includes a whole range of energy-related micro-energy supplements. aims to be the value of a pension fund in those who have not, or very limited, their rights to work in the labour market. It is generally assumed that the pension should be on three sides, i.e. Pays social security, pension payments, and the free pension savings of individuals. In a person who has the largest part of his life out of the energy market, two of these pillars are most likely to be absent or very low. Therefore, the support of social security needs to be greater with those individuals. So it is illogical and very unfair to limit social security benefits to that group, as is now being done. With reference to the above, the National Association firmly recommends the approval of the bill. Finally, I refer to a letter from an older citizen's National Association. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ When a person becomes 67 years old, he automatically performs disability in a pensioner's pension, resulting in a reduction of the tolerated supplementation as a result. current law. It can be as high as the disability pension, now 48,100 k/month, for those who were estimated to be 75% micro-organists at an early age, but will be much lower as it happened at a higher age. For those who became 75% microchip 40, the figure is now 7,200 p.m./month. The purpose of supplementation will be to make it up to some extent that it has not had the same potential as others to improve its interests through the acquisition of money during his life, such as obtaining property and pension. The management board of older citizens in and around Reykjavík does not see that the objective evidence for the pay of compensation falls to the age of 67 and therefore declares support for the bill. This tells us a story about this bill out there. All we need now is the government's support, that the government sees the light, that this group will continue to receive this reward. It's a matter of justice, it's fair, it's equal. What matters most: If we had accepted the law on the disabled, this would be one of the matters that would definitely have to be handled and fixed. I hope, therefore, that this is the last time I have to make a recommendation for this matter, this justice, this fairness, which is probably going through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u135	Desperates don't pay for a pension fund. The earlier in their life as disability begins, the less their pension rights are the nature of the matter. Worst of all, the situation of those who have been desperate since 18 years of age is, for example, the situation of the elderly. These people who today, like it, lose age-related disability benefits. To improve e.g. Their poor status and their lack of rights at pension funds have been raised below 52,631 K. a month above his disability benefits, which makes it clear that a person who has never been in a labor market because of disability has not paid in a pension fund. These payments continue to reduce the duration of disability, so the amount of age - related disability is equal to the time of an accident or illness and the onset of disability. When these people grow to be 67 years of age, they automatically move from disability to a happy and good pension, which is better than disability. However, it is not hair and while pensioners who come from a job market receive compensation through their pension fund are no pension fund at the hands of microchip who enter retirement age. It's a bill that's why. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson and of all members of Flock's Congress are concerned that the age-related disability benefits that are highest at 52,631k are allowed to hold on to the poor people who are eligible for retirement in a manner similar to the payment of pensions for those who have been able to pay in the pension fund for their years. Since this small amount is thought to improve their poor position and rightfulness in pension funds, it will certainly cloud the possibility that when a pension is reached, these payments will fall. It is also simply a matter of values as a nation, of how we feel about the elderly, and especially about the worst. Happily, a large group of elderly ones enjoy a good standing, but it is also a fact that a large number of elderly ones are in poor health and are struggling. This bill is about that group, and taking away the age - related disability reforms as soon as they reach the age of old age, not so much so strongly, to attack the park where it is the lowest. Let us not take the lesser ones away. We don't have a lot of time. I trust the government will take this course of righteousness for granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u136	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for a detailed description of what is being discussed here, which gives us solid support. This would be a worthy first step in what was being proclaimed two days ago, it would be in the process, the long - awaited global reexamination of the social security system. It is the darker spot in Icelandic society in my opinion and the keeping of all the thousands and tens of thousands in poverty that are meant to be bound by accidents, disability or have simply been involved in the construction of Icelandic society throughout their lives and have reached the age limit of life that means working to earn money. That's why I'd like this bill to have a track course this time. That would be a good indication of the rest of our names here in this hall. Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with what I have. A senator turned aside in his talk, not of course just failing to reach a retirement age. On the contrary. As everyone knows, this is more inverse proportion, increasing the need for help and the cost as the years grow, and old age and harrowing start to afflict people. In most cases, disability becomes more difficult, harder, and more expensive. Therefore, I strongly wish that right - minded senators and distant members of the United States will grant this course of action with a good heart and whole heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u137	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on the Board of Education. With me in this matter, members of the Parliament are reinvigorates. The bill, in effect, involves two small but significant changes, both of which involve more progressive financial support for students during college. Simply put, the objective is to ensure that students can support themselves without having to work a lot with study, but students in Icelandic universities have to work so hard by studying that it affects their learning careers and the result of learning. As I said, there are two suggestions. Both are setting a negative example. The first is that students can apply for a scholarship of some $72,000. During a month and as a result of being strong or supportive, assistance to the situation of students in full - time education, this is a support and a means of managing five years of study. This is designed to create circumstances and incentives for students to focus on the study and to be able to do it with full weight and, by doing so, to the speed of a student's career. Such support is important for the students themselves, but it also has meaning for the university and the university environment, indirectly to the State Fund. By improving the course of study, students graduate in shorter periods of time and by allowing the students to have extra space to keep their minds full in the study, they should reduce the likelihood of a drop in school, thus making more use of the money. This is also thought of as a support for college students in order to create them with a better setting for study and is in my mind a tool to ensure equality for study, but at the same time I believe that this has meaning for society all and is intended to reduce students's loss of education without having completed a degree or a test. This is the second main proposal of the bill. The other members of the study loan's core progress is equivalent to the minimum social security target, as fine and exciting as it now sounds, but they take up raises in accordance with prices. This is not a trial today, and I think students are all well acquainted. By setting this condition clearly into the Law text itself, it would be guaranteed that the basic progress of student loans would be the same as in the consumption criteria of the Ministry of Social Affairs for other community groups. For decades, I'd like to say, from students and student council, that the basic education of a student loan is too low for students to support themselves on it alone, which is why so many students work so hard at school. I think it's possible to get close to the case so that a basic advance that's too low to work against university progress. I was in the student council myself, not just last year, but 20 years ago, and then the basic development was a crucial factor in our presentation of equality for our study, better terms and support for students, and I have to say that it struck me when I sat on the General and Education Committee last year to realize how much the language of the student movement has changed. That has not changed much, despite the fact that students'leadership was very powerful in their conflict of interest. I believe that it must be written that governments have not responded well enough. In this case, I would like to say that restoration has since the formation of the class in 2016 put a high value on academic affairs, stressing the importance of colleges for society. I find it fitting now when we are in the situation that we face from a pandemic and an economic crisis and have had a conversation about it in this room and in the community all that society needs a more broad range of employment support than it is now experienced, there is a position as if it is now an opportunity to invest systematically in the education and education system. Through education and innovation, we create different jobs, desirable jobs, and thus can shape a community that attracts people instead of even seeing young people who go outside for study choose not to come back home. By protecting our university and university environment, we contribute to the restoration of those who pursue higher education abroad. I'm not going to go to the depth of the coverage of the bill itself. Although the bill is two articles and the ideologies are largely explained for themselves, it would like to say that the financial support of students and the student loan system created by the government is the best way to ensure equality for study. The system of study is the government's answer to how we want to achieve equality for study. It is fundamental to my mind that scholarship and loans are useful to students for furthering. We know that for years and decades students have been called upon to believe that this is not so, and it shows that it is in the interests of all to create students the circumstances that allow them to attend their studies wholeheartedly. The current support system in the student loan system is in place but has reached its end. This includes subsidies for those who have finished studying, so that support does not treat people until after they have studied. I'm afraid this way is more useful to students, that we're supporting students during study. The support system in the existing law includes the breakdown of a portion of the loan after graduation, namely, the relief of the pay load when people are in the workforce, but it does not include this direct support to students who are being seen here. In terms of the cost of yes, there has to be a single cost when and if this bill becomes legal, but after that, we're watching a move cost. A respectable president. Governments are to be part of and protect university education by allowing university schools to advance. This is done by living up to the university schools themselves in good circumstances and conditions, and this is done by ensuring students of the university to have a proper setting for study. This is a donation to improve the level of students, and I want to finish my words by referring the case to the General and Education Committee. It is my earnest desire that the matter be well discussed and discussed, and an optimistic member of the government side will hope that it may even become a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of history. It may be that I miscalculate this contributed bill, but it says in the current scholarship law that a scholarship of 30% of the student's head count plus benefits after study, i.e. both the student's savings and the student's alimony loan. If I understand this bill correctly, the scholarship has become a quarter of alimony, but there is no reference to funding on the school loans, because those who take the biggest loans are, yes, the ones going abroad, and therefore, they have to rely on these school loans from the Scholars' Education, so we're talking about 30% of loans still being a grant but the whole loan would be loans in that sense. I'm gonna ask the senator if I'm missing something here. Because it also says in the bill that the strength will be available for 45 months, the standard number of years at school is about five years, if a student accepts all his studies, i.e. All the bachelor mines and the master's class, and everything's done on time. Today, students can receive 480 ETS units, which are about eight years old, 30% of all these units, if they complete at a degree. So I get it right, we could be losing out there on the Ph.D.s and the space under there? Is it possible to get that strength alone, or is it necessary to borrow in order to gain that strength? If so, there will be really no change in this arrangement because, as I said, 30% of the loss, if you finish at the right time, is there, and the loan is interestless while you are studying, so the student loan is just as high, whether you take the money in a month or the whole season.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First of all, whether to take the scholarship alone or to withdraw from the loan - I understood the question correctly; whether it could be taken alone - without borrowing, the answer would be yes, that students would have the option of applying this counsel on their own or together as necessary. [[Without taking a loan.]] By the end of 45 months, the plan was to reach five university years. It was meant to cover a five-year period, i.e. BA and BS scores and championships. It would probably be a matter of extending them to that goal if it became unclear whether a doctor's study was under there or not, but it was at least This is not part of the plan. The big change and the big thought behind us is just that we're getting closer to students from supporting them while they are studying. There are many fine changes that were made in the new laws on the learning fund. But there's what I traced in my lead talk, that's watching how people repay their loans after they finish school. We know that Icelandic students spend more time studying than they do elsewhere, including Because they work so hard. So that kind of support, to come in with strength like this, I think it's definitely improving, and I can never do anything worse for a student.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u140	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. However, it remains here - and I realize that the senator is expected to get students out as soon as possible into the community at work and all of that. But at any rate, I'd like to encourage a global and educational committee to take a good look at this. And as for whether this will get hold of these people, which I have at least a sense of not being, i.e. The doctors, and the space in the system today. Just as if I understood it correctly, the scholarship to college loans. Perhaps I missed it in a talk. A senator, whether this is the same, because I read it in another way, i.e. that there was mainly a centenarian value in the alimony process. As the system is now, those who take the highest loans of all, of course, get the highest order of matters. People choose to go abroad, and we must want these highly educated people back here in society. So I think by setting such flat strength, as is suggested here by a dollar, it will be more difficult for these students to attend expensive studies abroad if there is not a scholarship to the school loans. So, yes, I think this is something the committee needs to take a closer look. I came to that bill last time, when it was being discussed, and I know it a little bit, so I don't think it will quite work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u141	A respectable president. I was also involved in this work, and I know the jury quite well, both from the committee and from a student council, and after having been in studies abroad where these factors were indeed put to the test. A senator mentioned. And of course, when you add support to the loan system, a student is better off than without it. I think that's what I'm talking about. But we have the same range of loans we have today in our system. There's no restrictions on doctors. Of course, it's supposed to be looking at the point of time. But the thought of this bill is that it's adequate. There's nothing here to interfere with the rule of the loans. So these are two points in this regard that depend on the production and support of students while they are in school. But then I thank the senator very much for his demonstration of interest and hope that the matter will be reviewed on the committee and on the subject, for it is my sincere opinion that this is an increased support for the students and that they really need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u142	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for measuring up for this change in the laws on the Scholars' Education and thus taking the initiative for an important discussion here in a seminar on the student loan system. I know this bill is given with good intentions, and I also think that I and what. A senator must agree that the role of a student's education fund should be to ensure a student's opportunity to study without regard for the economic status of others. It's supposed to be a social equation fund. Of course, when it takes year after year, the wealth and the student's loan system loses its role, so that students' ideals revitalize other groups in the community. The basic contribution of students, as we shall remember, to borrowed and paid back is and has long been too low and the holiday goal as well. Of course, there is the combination, so students will be forced to work and preferably work along the course of study to make ends meet, but at the same time, the forward will be significantly limited. Of course, this is a bad situation. In that respect, I rejoice to suggest it. The senator and the carriers of this bill for irreversibly legalizing the progress of students should be minimised unless the social Ministry consumption criteria as well as the cost of housing are added. This is something the student movement has been calling for a long time, and this is something we in the United States have also signed up and spoke in the campaign. It is very important in these areas to consider the actual circumstances of a student in a housing market. To say that, as soon as I celebrate this, I've had some doubts about various aspects of the bill and maybe only remained this fundamental change in the sponsoric system to which this is proposed. In fact, this is a very large system change that is being proposed, which means that instead of being paid out every month or at the end of the second, students are given a concentration of 30% drains from the top of a total student loan. I think it's something that's breaking out the support system. The groups that have had to make the most of their debt during study years may need the most support, not by 30%, but by only $72,000. During a month, as if those students who have not needed equal support and as a result have owed themselves less. In fact, this was mentioned in the talk "Wicked. " However, a senator earlier assumed that students could somehow take out the $72,000. especially without borrowing. That wasn't my understanding of the bill text. An article with the bill will show up, with the permission of a president: ▪ Modern support systems in the study loan system primarily include subsidies for interest to students who have completed their studies. This results in no support until after school, and therefore, during the course of study, they are useless students. There, money is not the best, for most people have a much greater need for support during study than after study. This emphasis is on supporting students more fully while they are studying, but it is still mentioned in 6 mg. 2.g. The bill that the amount of study scholarship comes from the deduction of a staging loan. In fact, this suggests that part of a stipulated loan will turn into a scholarship, which means that the amount paid by students will probably remain the same each month. Support does not appear until a borrower starts paying off the loans that are now lower than it would have been. So I don't see that this bill, and what is suggested there is a fundamental difference in the timing of support, except for perhaps for this group, which was presented in the speech given at the time. A senator, who somehow decides to take advantage of the 72,000. strength, but fail to borrow. I suppose that's true, then, I don't know, maybe not necessarily the group that's that bad. They may be creating someone to encourage them there, bringing this support to them directly, but not to the others. At least I don't see it. Maybe I'm missing something. It seems to me that this change must take the bite on students who take the school loans. The sea is now borrowing for up to 6 million. K. ... becauseofgrads. That's a lot of money. For many, this may be what matters most. Today, this group has a 30 percent chance of down payment on a total loan that also goes to the school loan. But with the change suggested in the bill, I don't see that scholarships are expected on the basis of school fees. If one of the objectives of this bill according to the report is to motivate people to complete their studies - there is something else here - this is, in effect, taking out the catalyst of the present system, which includes this 30% decomposition if study is completed in more detail. Then there's another thing. 14th degree. The current law requires a small amount of space to delay learning without compromising the right to study. But it seems to me in this bill, they say 45 months, that it's actually much less leeway than in the system now. There's no BA study, a master's study, and a doctor's in 45 months, that's five years. As I said at the beginning of the speech, I celebrate and support the motion of the movers on the legalization of the foundation. I think it's a very good suggestion, and I'd like to back it up, and I'd like to wish it was a government in this state that would support such an operation. But I think, in other ways, there's a lot of stuff in this bill that just had to be done a lot better and then considering that we must want the student loan and learning system to be -- I'm sorry I'm hanging -- but not reverend, that it's not some flat support, and that it's a social balance fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, because I think that it must be said as it is that in this hall there is far too little discussion about university education and, hence, about quality students. I had mentioned in my background that on the one hand, it is raising basic progress here, making it legally certain that it is the same for students and for everyone else in the community. This has been a strong appeal in the community. Under these conditions is the housing team. By making sure it's protected by the law, we are indeed meeting the reality of a student. The other point is, and there may be differences of opinion, that because it is a social formula, and because we want to support students, it goes well with them and is strong to do it right while they are in school, give them a chance to choose to study, give them a chance to work less with school. This may have to be longer, but the idea was this: the basic development of this 45 - month period. However, strength. And yes, it's flat on everyone, but it's the strength students don't live on today that goes up with prices every year. So these are the two changes. There may be differences in whether to support people after they leave school, to the workforce, or to whether they will be better off doing so while they are studying. I think that's the time point. There are, of course, other forms of support for doctors. However, these two articles deal with these two points. There is nothing else in the book of Order - these two changes in my mind are both clearly and clearly to support students in very direct and during the course of study. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u144	A respectable president. I can agree with all that. A senator said of this first act of the bill, which leads to the basic development and legalization of the bill. As I explained earlier, I don't quite see that this bill really changes when the support comes because the strength, the 72,000 bucks. will be reduced from a staging loan. So in most cases, this arrangement actually includes support later, after study has ended, unless I am mistaken, something that may well be. I'd like to hear about it. A senator doesn't just agree with me that there's a need to be absolutely clear that a school loan has to be included in the funding system. This is actually a 14th degree. the current law, which accounts for about 30% of the decline of total loans, which are included as loan loans, falls away, and is replaced by another branch where school loans are not expected. So maybe we all agree to change this. But then, of course, so that such fundamental changes in the student loan system - if I know the administrative part right, that's never going to be changed. But let us be optimistic about this. [[The president calls.]] I just think there's a lot of things in there that could come up with a better look and change for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u145	Madam President. Regarding the point that this doesn't make any difference: this is the amount paid out every month if you are studying, the level that is not paid out every month while you are studying today. That's where the answer is. That's $72,000. strength that is not available to students today but would do so by means of that bill. To say that, I rejoice as before. The senator of this discussion. We know that the big point has been on the side of students in BA and Master's School: What's the basic development? How does the vacation market look over the years? Conclusions on impairment rates, etc. The basic growth is the big point. Here we are ensuring her that she actually lives under a name as such, and in addition to that, students can apply for this monthly grant, in some case with the result that they don't borrow in addition, if they come in debt from school, in some case of strength and loans, obviously for the benefit of all students.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u146	A respectable president. As far as I can see, the cost is expected to be withdrawn from the cost of each month of this bill so that for the most large part of the loanees, this arrangement would not change anything about when the support comes, whether it is during or later. Today's strength is up to 30% of the total loans, and if you have very much money, it's likely that you will get a higher strength from it. This change is actually recording $72,000. flat strength. It's a methodology I don't like. I think it's a bit like the approach of the Illugi Gunnarsson on the student loan system back then. Then there was a bill that was overly controversial and, happily, was broken back here at the council. It also expected such flat support in some way. I'm just not sure that this aspect of the bill, these changes in the sponsoric system itself, would be an improvement. But at the same time, I agree with what. A senator on the importance of legalizing basics. I think this bill could be very good if it took just a certain change to the General and Education Committee. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u147	Madam President. This is my recommendation for the resolution of the 70-year sentence on the rights and duties of the employees of the state. It states that the General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers, in agreement with social and employment managers, to initiate a discussion with the government staff on the violation of the laws that limit the work of public employees at 70 years of age. I have importers with me. The members of Jódís Skúladóttir, Orri Jóhannsson, Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Earna, Áldur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Tómas A. Tómasson, Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Kristinsson Ingi. The objective of this arrangement is to allow government employees to remain in their jobs after the age of 70 if they want to and trust in them. The proposal was first submitted to the 150th legislation and entered the Economic and Business Committee after previous discussions and received reviews from BSRB and older citizens' national relations. The case was submitted to the second session of the 151th legislature Council of 185th, which included reviews from the European Union of Iceland, as well as prior history of BSRB. In addition to the fact that the organization declared itself ready to participate in the work in it, the report announced the BSRB proposal. As expected in the proposal, social unions were highlighted and only allowed to continue after the age of 70. For up to two years, reference was made in the BSRB collective labour agreement to extend recruitment by employees who have reached 70 years of age. However, government personnel do not have the same potential as government workers in rural areas in order to work in 70 C.E. At that time, it was noted that government employees, after their 70 - year - old, would not receive pensions. The older citizen's national relationship repeated the need to reevaluate retirement due to age including: in view of the fact that life span had increased greatly over the past few decades. At that time, the relationship, called a 70 - year rule, was out - of - date and inconsistencies with human rights. The National Association of Iceland, according to its review, is an advantage for the disappearance of the existing organisation, but changes may affect the collective agreements of the ASI Member States and rural communities, and it is important to consider all changes in that light. The Law on State Rights and Duty, No. 70/1996 is the rule that government employees should be suspended at 70 years of age. In 1st. Thirty-three. The law states that an official should provide relief from the next month at the age of 70 and also from those who are temporarily appointed. Two. 43. g. says the employee should always resign from and from the next month after he is 70 years old. In a paper with a bill that turned into law No. 70/1996 is not given any specific reason to maintain the age limit already found in 1st. 13th par. track No. 38/1954, on the rights and responsibilities of the government. In a paper with a bill that turned into law No. 38/1954 and include in the comments of 13 C.E. that there is a difference of opinion as to whether the age should be the age of public employees and the age for which to live. Are there the evidence in the ratings that the age limit is usually no longer valid employees, that they rarely accept it themselves, and that they would have to give young men the opportunity to get to work. So many were now used in 1954. According to Labour Code, No. 86/2018, a direct or indirect difference based on age, is prohibited when it comes to the availability of employment and, therefore, the recruitment and progress of the job. There is, however, an exception in parsity 12. The law says that different treatments due to age are not considered to be against the law to be a grammatical argument committed by legitimate objectives, including: employment policies or other occupational goals, since such measures will not go beyond the goals considered necessary. In a paper with a bill that became the law No. 86/2018, including About 12. that it be assumed that a special retirement age is the purpose of achieving a legitimate goal, such as in the light of public employment policies. Transporters point out that quality of life and circumstances have changed greatly since the laws on the rights and duties of the Kingdom. The increased life expectancy and the improved health of people have enabled them to serve longer than they once did. The right to make public employment policy reflects the change and give it to those who want to work longer and have health to the potential and skill of work. In support of this, in some cases employees of the public institutions continue to work for those who work after the end of their work at 70 years of age. At the same time, the official loss of knowledge may be to the general labour market, where similar dates are not found. This proposal is not intended to encourage public employees to prolong or pressure their career, and it is important that the viewpoint of representatives of the public employees be made when the rules for them are changed. Therefore, the movers stress that the decommissionment of the age restrictions in cooperation with public employees' organisations and stress the importance of the careful implementation of the deduction process and reconciliation. As we have seen, the world has changed considerably, and thankfully people live much longer than they did at the time of those laws. We do not necessarily define ourselves by age but primarily by what we want to do and what we are able to do, nor should we overlook the fact that we are all different and are in different places as we approach 70 years of age. I also think that there is an enormous amount of knowledge in older people who are reaching 70 people who have had to quit, even because they were 70 years old and lost some knowledge and experience, but people have had the ability to work and the desire to keep working. I think it's shocking that it's like this, that people aren't really just being pushed out of a job market on such nonverbal grounds as age is on their own. In fact, this is a certain sentence of aging because as soon as you reach some age, you have lost your skills and abilities that are, of course, wrong. I really hope that the proposal succeeds, that she's got some good reviews both in the economic and business committees and in the clients. I hope that this group will be started, and we senators must be able to unite that it's time to change the law and not define us solely from their age.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u148	A respectable president. Hv. A World of Congress and you people of the world watching us live. My name is Tómas, Tommi, and I'm an older citizen, which means I'm 67. Actually, I'm almost 73 years old. How happy I am for this if it were approved here. My dentist, Tóti, a tönn now 84, says, "Tommi, age is just a number, and I can totally agree with it. ' I mean, everybody needs a part of life when they wake up in the morning. I'm so happy to be in this work, even though I'm so old that I'm on the parole I like. I love my work here at the Generals. Warren Buffet was asked why he invested so much in adult managers, and he said: "It's such a contraption to the teags of drugs. In other words, experience is everything. I can totally say that when people are 70 years old, they need some kind of work test. Just like when I get my driver's license back, I have to show that I can drive, and that's okay. Those who are willing and able to work should be allowed to work. I remember that when I was a young man, I often watched a famous priest named Árelíus the son of Níelsson, who was then a national hero. He began delivering the Mogga when he stopped being a priest, and why? Yes, he wanted something to do when he woke up in the morning and I agree with it. [[The president calls.]] I say, if you don't use it, you get rid of it and work is both mental and physical exercise.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that all of us need a role when we wake up in the morning, so that our spiritual well - being is better. And this need for us, in general, to be in an environment where there are people, to have this social and social relationship, is of utmost importance. Because the term "old " refers to people who had to stop working because of age but then began to do something else simply to stay physically sterile, perhaps and, of course, physically, all of this is important. I guess we've dated a lot of our age. A senator, or perhaps a year older, of our council during the last term. It is also in this room, as in other areas of society, council, and other workplaces, of course, to reflect society as it is, at work, and elsewhere. It makes a difference to me that if people think about going back to work - as I said on the bill, nobody is suggesting that people continue but that they have at least a chance to do so. Of course, that is what really matters in this regard. So I can totally say that it's kind of ridiculous to deal with someone when you're in a job market. It should always be the skill and ability to do what you want to do. But it can, in time, slow down and may not be as productive a matter as it is. And maybe that too would require a more flexible approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u150	A respectable president. Hv. City of Congress. There is one thing I forgot to be able to do here, and that is that those who have to stop working and do not have a role in life often tend to kill time by drinking. And there is nothing as pathetic as an adult who has become addicted to alcohol. That's why I encourage a body of Congress to accept the remainder just to prevent it. I don't say that everybody does, but some do. And some are too many.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u151	Madam President, It is true that when people do not have a place in their lives, they vary in their path, and this may be part of them, such as that of the dog. A senator mentioned that we need to look to different circumstances and how we live today. Happily, we live much longer and are healthier. The nature of the case was the use of people in the past, and people may have worked much more and were living shorter lives, until it is today. Above all, it's this: We have a role to play and we feel it in life, whether it's babysitting or just having a part in life after we choose to stop working. In effect, that should be the point of view, that we choose to stop working rather than limit our place of work. I just say for myself that I'd like to be able to control it myself, but not just to get my resignation the day before I'm 70, but that I can win, I want to do it wherever I want to, not just in public, but everywhere. But, of course, it's under government law. And it's also a little strangely screwed that they're in a vault other than the others. That's what we really want to correct, the distinction that takes place with that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u152	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this synonym. I think it's very sensible and supportive. It has been shown that increasing activity in life increases well - being and satisfaction, so there is no law to determine that once a person has reached a certain age, men, and women, they have somehow been told that their workers are no longer expected in the community. I feel that this is an unfortunate method and it is not really meant to come from the government, in my opinion. I wanted to ask you why. A member of the Parliament - now making this statement to government employees, the state has established public societies that are fully owned by the State, and the staff are allowed to stop working 67 years of age, even 65 years of age - whether they agree with me that the same should apply to government and government personnel. As the law is today, government officials are allowed to work in 70 years, while government officials are allowed to work in the hands of the government, i.e. Officials are allowed to work until they are 67 years old. I think it's a difference. I'm asking why. A senator will agree with me that there is a need to be consistent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u153	Madam President. The short answer, of course, is yes. As I stepped in my counterclockwise back then, we have to correct this distinction. Perhaps this could be some expansion of it in the processing of the Committee, and also around the communities, the public. The basic point is, of course, that age is not to be controlled but, as I have said, the ability and ability of people to care for what they are doing. I think it should just be open. In fact, there is no limit. It is certainly evident in comments to this case, when it was submitted, that there may be some flexibility there. And now the natural communities have two years, 70 plus. There are different ways of doing this in many places. Yes, it is really equal and human rights that this is so that the law does not bind us to age. It is always possible to tell people on grammatical grounds. It doesn't have to be because of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u154	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with me that the same should apply to government employees who are fully owned by the state, from public societies, as they say. I know, for example, that the large workplace called Istavia has had to deal with staff as soon as it is 67 years old. I know that it has caused dissatisfaction. They even work there. Firefighters and workers on snowdrops They get to work for their communities until 70 years of age, and they get to be with Istavia at 67 years of age. Many of these employees came, e.g. from the army, when it was here, they moved to Istavia, and there was no limit of age. All they had to do was meet a health check, and they were allowed to continue working. By moving to another employer but by doing the same work, these changes have been changed. I mean, it's unfair because many at that age are just very good at these jobs, and they can do them, and they have a natural grasp of their fields. The human resources involved must not be excluded. It may be advisable to make this suggestion, at least into the committee, that this would apply also to the official organisations. As I said before, this is also a public health, as we all know, and this is my judgment of discrimination. According to the labour market equal treatment guidelines, direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of age is prohibited, as stated here and how good it is. I'm glad to hear it. A senator will agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u155	Madam President. You have seen that knowledge is lost on too many occasions. The human race will be completely different, indeed. Although we like to say that a person always replaces a person, that is often so that a great deal of knowledge is lost. There will be a leak of wisdom. If you have many people of the same age in a designated company or in an institution there is a risk that they can happen. I agree with that, as it has been observed. Councilmen who have opposed the fact that this is a public health matter. That's right. The ability to work, the choice of a job, and the ability to do it, is extremely important to all people. Perhaps I'm going to look into this with the official organisations because the senator mentioned the making of a new proposal on the committee. I think I'll just lay over it now to see if it's possible or if you have to do it in a special matter or how it is. But anyway, I thank you for that tip because it's certainly ours, and we're supposed to put our arms around it, too. So I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u156	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Olsen's beak for this council-sense proposal and found it ideal to come up here and rejoice that the subject is being discussed here. It is important to keep in mind that individuals do not lose their job capacity at a certain birthday, but it is generally assumed that a Kingdom worker will be given up from the end of the month at the end of his 70 - year - old. However, the general labour market does not automatically end with certain lifetime ages. In this country, you see, there are many people who want and can do longer than the laws on the rights and duties of the servants of the State require. The Act on the End of Public Workers tie the hands of older citizens who prefer to work longer, as well as employers. Our older people are to decide whether they will retire or continue to work. A person's appointment should not be under law or under rules. It should be the decision of an employee and an employer and the conversation and the agreement between the two parties on the basis of individual judgment and ability. During the last term, I led a staff to the standard of living and equipment of older people. The results of the work group showed that the national age combinations have changed and will continue to occur. The percentage of older citizens is increasing and life span is increasing. The elderly are healthyer than before, and we see that age does not prevent them from doing their jobs, regardless of who they are. The emphasis presented in this synonym is well compatible with the emphasis of the advance. The pursuit wants to cancel the rules of retirement or retirement because of age. Those who continue to be active in a job market should be able to do so if both employees and employers want to do so. But it is clear that a decision this will have in many parts of the system. Therefore, it is important to identify all of these factors as events, including those events. The pension system, social security, and proposals for change. It is also important to examine these findings based on gender equality and gender effects. We all speak, and all of us are expected to have the opportunity to participate and influence our society. The wealth of Icelandic society is based on those views, opinions of worth. Many of our older people still want to participate in society, be active in dealing with people, and feel important. That's even. done with a job party. We're not supposed to put that chair for the door in that context. We'll welcome them. They're bringing fresh tints. These are individuals who have extensive experience and knowledge along with the capacity most of them still have. We want to invest in people, and that's even true. done by giving them the opportunity to thrive regardless of their age.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u157	A respectable president. Study for the benefit of older people. Age is not important. It's a person's age. I agree with what. 1st. That's the north side. and celebrate the contributions of this case, and I thank the representative of the bill very much for its contributions. Dedicated retirement sounds a little wrong. People feel forced to quit just because they're about to die. We need to think more deeply about how we can increase the impact of older ones in the workplace while they have health to do so. Do we lose people on the basis of age by keeping those boundaries inside? We hear repeatedly about a lack of knowledge from our institutions, from the labour market, and from companies in the private sector when experienced people give up jobs, not because they want to, but because of their age, they are cut off. In the end of the election and in the emphasis of advancement, our will is to eliminate the rules of retirement or retirement that we perform a certain age. Those who continue to be active in a job market should have that opportunity, both employees and contractors. The employer will have to - we need to make some kind of mental change following the contribution of this bill. The whole community needs to be involved. Hv. A senator said we needed more extensive changes, and I'm going to agree with that. We must emphasize that reorganization will be carried out on the subject of older people from baseline to dating society, integrated personal service, and a clear view of the role and responsibilities of those who come in the ministry. Experience should be looked to, including of child-reorganization. The key elements, such as so many times before, are increased cooperation within the system. There is a chapter in the Treaty of the current government: We are going to invest in people, saying that Icelandic society's wealth is based on the importance of our involvement. This chapter is here because one of the biggest changes in society's formulations in the coming years is the age of the nation. It's getting old, and I'm stressing it. We are longer healthy, and we look ahead to a higher average age than we used to see in the past. This is an important matter of rights, and I support my whole mind with the goals and content of the bill. No matter how old we are, all of us want to do our part and purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u158	A respectable president. I, like other members of Congress, will come up here and commend this council proposal and consider it important. It's really just stupid that we haven't already done this because, as we've been through here, it's a public health thing and we're looking at a so-changing society. Happily, we live longer and are better health, most of us. As a result, today is becoming 70 years old, not the same thing as being 70 years old 50 years ago. Well, I guess it's just a little different. Clearly, one of our future challenges in the land is aging. But that's also because we're always watching this model, i.e. the number of people who are over 67 years of age, against those who are working at work, under 67 years of age. We look at health costs and how our income comes into play by working people. Of course, a part of this solution or of that prospect must be to look, not only at work at 67 or 70 years of age, but as long as people want to work. Of course, it's only natural, you think, in a democratic society, that people get the opportunity to continue their energy and that it is also important for our society to use the knowledge of the already existing ones and to have decades of experience. In this context, I would also like to mention studies on the blue areas of the world. I don't know why. Elders are familiar with them, but these are the areas of the world where life span is at its highest. These are some Greek islands, places in the United States, Japan, and other parts of the world. It's been summed up what these sites represent. Of course, it is diet and exercise. But there is also a purpose, a purpose in society, that people have something to do with being and being a part of something, and many experts want to deny that they are one of the most important things. I think it's a little important for us to think, especially now that we're coming out of a pandemic where people have been prevented from meeting with each other and being among other people, who we know are very important to our health, i.e. that people have meaning. That's why I think the way must be that we should open it. In fact, it's stupid that the law itself says this, but it's the person itself, and the employer, to have something to say about when and the way people quit. I think there's also a big part of this that we need to open up our options for part-time work. This is true not only when people get older but also when they have the opportunity to do something other than work but also at the same time have the opportunity to do their job, to continue their knowledge. This is also true of those with limited ability, such as those disabled. This is also important in modern society. We want to encourage children to have children and to have families here. It's a lot if everyone has to do 100% work, I'm not talking about like in Iceland, where we tend to do a job that's usually 15%. I think this is important. But I can't help saying that maybe it's just a reason to revise the law on government employees, not just the rules of dating. In the last few years, our pension system has made significant changes. Part of it is to try to balance the pension rights of public employees and those who have worked in a private market and are very important in equality. We're on the road with this. It is also important that the government is competitive in the pay, but in my opinion it is also important that government is not the cause of pay development. There's a nice middle road there. Why am I saying that? Of course, if we are going to equal the opportunities of these two markets, we need to revise the laws and rights that are hidden in the government laws. And I think it's just as important for the public because it's so important that people go between these markets, i.e. that employees and the government also receive the powers of those who come from a public market, just as I think it may be important for the job life of getting people from the public market to themselves. It may have been too much for people to walk into positions, start working at institutions, or constructions, and there are many other forms of work. And so often on the other side, that when people go into their jobs, into the private sector, they seldom come into the public sector. I'm sure I'm a little entangled in this important discussion, 70 years old and so. But I think we in this room also need to raise up the debate about these laws and a measure of stiffness in the law, a rigid framework that government officials are often placed in because of these laws, which can hinder the development of public institutions and their manpower policies. I wanted to throw this out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u159	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advisor and the others who have discussed all of this. Many of the things that should be said in this context have been said. There have been so many things that were less obvious, say 100 or 200 years ago, in Iceland, when men and women were quite finished about 30 years ago, began to collapse the gaps between the mud and all that was so hard to live in the hard land of that time. Then, in general, people are acknowledging that their 70's is the new 50's, and everything in the world is turning in a better direction. For many years, I have felt that losing a job is really a prescription for the accelerated aging process. I know that I don't necessarily share this opinion with everyone, but to me it would be a great idea to stop working at a certain age. Only then may I feel that people are beginning to age abnormally quickly. Then this is what has happened here, the purpose, the role in life and all that. I may be lucky to have the music goddess as my companion, and years ago it enabled me to decide that I would never stop working or that I would stop working. That, on its own, has given me a measure of freedom to plan as far ahead as I want - provided that my health and strength are going to last. [[The Senator knocks three times in a speaker's stand.]] I can tell you here that although I've had many shores in my life and nothing ever lived under the most strict health standards, my energy, both mentally and physically, has grown in reverse proportions, I feel, during my life span. I like being alive now more than it was ten, 20, or 30 years ago. There are so many things to look forward to. When 1st. That's the north side. To this end, I could not allow myself to recall that when the first man in the Teleracy Act of the University of Akureyri for decades lived and worked in Akureyri - the man I'm baptized after, Jakob Frímannsson - og vera the kaupfélagsstjóri of the kaupfélag of Akureyri, Eyfirðingur, and the director of the SISS, probably the largest company in Iceland, with more well than a government fund at that time - the KaEA government, probably set in 1950 or 1960, that men should complete 70. After he had built up the great empires that KEA was and SIS on a national scale, he himself became 70 years old and prepared to quit. At that time, it was a challenge to the government that he would not stop 70 years of age, and they saw that man was alive and alive and better than anyone in sight to lead this successful business forward, each marked almost any other building in Akureyri, and some said that everything was marked KEA except the actual church, to which he was basically the main worker and developer. Still, he could not think of it for the sake of accepting that challenge for more than one year, so he decided to quit at 71 years of age. As one looks at the tremendous structure that had taken place for 40 years, under his direction, it began with the point of dropping in the opposite direction, unfortunately. He had to, the man who drove his Chevrolet A4 into his 90's and then, only in his 95th year, say goodbye to the terrible tragedy that he had actively participated in building up, literally disappeared, and became no longer a real company, but some fund that has gradually disappeared, unfortunately. The same thing about the Icelandic partnership. There are many other factors that may have contributed to this end, but I think most of the people who were paying attention to it have realized that if people like him are fully alive, have built up such a successful business in such an amazing way, it's impossible to aim at some numbers, some landmarks, and say, "Well, here's the end of this, and now just take some others in, some new or imported, or not connected. With all due respect to all the tracers, I think there was a very clear example of how ridiculous this old rule is. But, of course, she's old, and we're pretty much on the side of government officials and government-related companies. I think it's a set adjustment we need to spread, not just to us here in these sales, but to the community all. It's a time error, it's over. Now, just like our car, we need to make an examination. If something goes wrong, if it doesn't go through, it's just the way it is. We will go on and remain among the oldest and most healthy nations. Instead of talking about men and women getting older, I prefer to say that they grow up. The discussion is developing in the right direction. Thank you for having participated in it and led it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u160	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna support a council proposal that's being discussed here. This is a good approach, especially the emphasis on cooperation and reconciliation with the government organisation. This interpretation proposal also rhymes very well with the emphasis of advance in the last campaign. That's where we even put it. Stressing the fact that people can decide their retirement regardless of age. And if people want and can win them, they have a chance to work because people don't lose the ability to work when they wake up in the morning on their 70th birthday. Workers and employers are closed, not rules that allow virtually no space. This is also important public health, and it can be part of continuing to work in the community. We realize that it is necessary to go into major system changes, with cooperation as a guide and as a result, we have very good experience. That's where I'm going to include the work that took place during the last term at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childhood at the highest level. A minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason led to integration of services for the benefit of children. They were placed at the table with knowledge of child matters, and much work was put into cooperation and cooperation in order to gain a vision of children's affairs. The outcome was great, and we need to do the same in the care of the elderly. But I'd also like to mention that this council-sense proposal only handles a small part of the limitations of the age in Icelandic law and regulations. Icelandic law has a range of ages, and I believe that only adults 18 years of age and older have the need to reevaluate age limits, with the idea that most age limits are to be eliminated. I want to end the speech on a sentence that I said very often during the campaign, and I want to make a special point, that age is not a goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u161	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and thank you. A senator for bringing this up. This is of utmost importance and has been one of the things we've been talking about in the advance, that we don't have a rating. If you have reached a certain age, you are qualified to care for the responsibilities laid upon an adult. I just want to thank you. A senator very much for bringing this up. This is important. We are all grown up at a certain point, and we should have no limits thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-27-28.u162	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hafdís Sgt. Hafsteinsdóttir for this answer. This case really burns on me. I'm absolutely aware that when people are 18 years old, they're under the law, subject to the laws of adults. There may be reasons for some age limit, but in general I am aware that there is more to the level of rights and other acquired by education, experience, or otherwise because age is not a norm. As an adult, it is possible for an adult to care for the responsibilities involved.
