ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u1	Borist wrote a letter from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, the Þorgerður of the daughter of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, and Arndí Anna, the Kristínardóttir of Gunnarsdóttir, that they could not attend the council in the near future. A letter has also been received by the chairman of the Independence Party for the arrival of Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. So today, on Monday, February 7, we have a seat at the General Assembly, which served as guardians for the 2nd left men on the left party's list of green bids in the Northeast. "Kári Gautason, but Air Force One, Air Force One, Air Force One, 2nd Vice-Resurrection in Southvest. "Thomas Möller, an abbey of the arts, has announced in advance, 1st Lipper of Pirata's list of smokers. So, Halldór Auður Svansson, and 2nd Specialist on the Independence Party list in Smoke. n., Kjartan Magnússon, but the 1st soldier has announced a pastime. But all of them, except that Auður, the son of Svansson, had taken their seats before in the assembly, and were accepted again to serve.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u2	The letter of Auður, the son of Svansson, has already been investigated and accepted, but he has not taken his place in the Council before and therefore has to sign his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u3	Auður Svansson has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u4	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 150, on access to psychological services regardless of the economy, from the Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u5	To answer, financial and economic ministers, food ministers, environment, energy and climate minister and university, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u6	Mr. President. The question, in fact, is the highest. A marine minister who has undergone criticism of some of the consequences of the present fishing system and is going to appoint a committee for increased transparency in the business of the largest companies in the fishing grounds. Two years ago, the Allied Council agreed to my request that the local ocean secretary have a report on the survival of the big estate in Icelandic society in the power of its intermittent uses of fishing resources. The work certainly started, but for some reason, the brakes were started within the Ministry, and when the report finally appeared, it did not contain anything that was somewhat different. It did not provide a map of how the vegetation of large production has been used in investing in the media, food market, property, transport companies and insurance companies, in the health sector, in food markets, in tourism and restaurants. Mr. President. This would not be an attractive situation, but because of their smallness, Icelandic living is simply particularly vulnerable to the negative effects of a seasonly developed market, and there is strong evidence that the effects of the superheated superproducts on sheltering non - time innovations are toward an increase in commercial competition in many parts of the world. Therefore, transparency is particularly important. The report requested by the General could have become an important introduction to the current minister's plans. Later, the media confirmed that this information had truly been collected and came to the Ministry. Do you think a minister will use that information for his work? Has a minister of the collaborators' support to change to a more righteous fishing system, support of groups that have for years been the primary factor in reaching a more reasonable system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request, in part, to a report request. A senator arrived at the General Assembly and was approved during the first term. Hv. In fact, a senator has followed this report and the conclusion followed by an additional request to me, which I answered in return that a service minister's report gives each time the responsibility of the minister is not the minister to whom the Ministry takes the end of elections, so I have not seen any other reason to discuss that report. However, the views are expressed at the same time. A member of the council who is in charge of improving the system towards all righteous systems in the community, that the foundation is about transparency, and that we are more concerned with how things are handled more closely with the property or position of different enterprises owned by one party, etc. I agree with what. Senator on the importance of this. Just as it is certain that when both project and the time line are involved in this major project ahead, that schedule and time line are made official because I believe that it is important not only that the content and content of such projects are important but also, rather, the methodology of how the project will be worked and that the nation, to see clearly how it is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u8	Mr. President. Thank the Minister's office. These weren't the answers to the questions, so I'm gonna use my minute here to repeat them. But I'd like to say this: We have to disagree about the methodology of Ministers, and I'm not talking about a minister who comes from an ongoing administrative organization, is totally free, or can be free from any government party to answer for the actions of the previous Minister. I just think it's a prescription for certain abuse, even though I'm not saying that it is. I would have thought the Ministry could inform the Minister of what I asked in my inquiry to the Minister, i.e.: Why was work stopped? How far did she go? But perhaps I would put my question to the fore: Does a minister's thinking make good use of this information? We have received confirmation from the media that they are available, they have been gathered, they have been brought to the Ministry, they have come to a minister who chose not to use them, and now is in the Ministry. And also an appeal: Is a minister hoping to obtain changes in this administrative work?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u9	First about the last question why. Senator: Yes, I hope that there will be a change. Secondly, why? A senator whether the information available in the Ministry is fundamental and the answer to that question is yes too. There is no need to make good use of the available data. On the other hand, I insist that it is not only my opinion and my position, but it is so by law that the Ministry itself serves as a minister at any given time, and by law the Minister is responsible for the answer he gives to the Council at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u10	Mr. President. Last year, 23 rental companies got a total of 875 million. K. The tax rate to buy in gasoline and diesel cars, and this year the same company gets up to a billion more. This is done in the name of a energy exchange. However, in view of the financial office of the tax office, this payoff rate can directly counter the electricalization of the rental fleet and delay transport energy exchange. I'll have to ask the highest. Secretary of the climate whether he agrees with the opinion of that office. And if it is, I'd like to ask, "How are things going to be great?" Minister to act? What means does a minister want to speed up the electricalization of the rental fleet in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Like what? A senator knows that the climate goals, or procedures, are the responsibility of different ministers. Hv. A senator knows that this unique matter when it comes to these things is not on my table. On the other hand, I like that. A senator draws attention to the importance of hurrying as much as we can the electric car stand. Based on the best information I've got, 4% of my cars are electric trucks. Although we're with the greats of the world when it comes to eco-friendly cars, I think we're number two after Norway, there's a lot of work to be done. I think we can see it in our hand as we consider this case that we have the tendency to build wood so that it's a practical option, not just for rent rents, but for people all over the country. And when we figure out who's got some electric cars, I think we can work it out, like I've picked up on the edge. A general assembly, that there are more wealthy people living in the capital area. But it has to be for everyone. So I'm looking at what I'm talking about. A senator is urging to speed it up as we can, which we are doing. But more factors need to be considered than pay. We also need to look inside because this must be a real option.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u12	A respectable president. I think the Council will be quite difficult to discuss climate matters if it is to be the law that certain aspects of climate are being met by another minister. Now, Iceland's largest emissions factor is not under the climate minister but the Food Minister, which comes from the country and reacts to it. Similarly, public transportation and infrastructure in general are represented by the secretary of the infrastructure. It makes you wonder, then, what this climate minister really is, when such major factors are not to be heard under it. But it's fine that the Secretary of the climate still exists for this conversation. We must all agree that transport energy exchange cannot be achieved by billions of subsidies for fuel and diesel cars. I want to ask the highest. Ministers in general, how he intends to exercise himself for less traffic and for increasing the freedom of people to choose different routes from the private car. I also ask what measures to take. During this ideal period, a minister sees for himself to make it more realistic and more attractive to travel through the country without being in a car.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u13	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator is suggesting that all the things under the climate go to a climate minister, of course, when I'm troubled. But that would mean enormous power, for it has to do with all aspects of society. But it's just that it's suggested that I get all that power, and I appreciate it so that it's a special trust. A senator is declaring to the people here. It's a big project. It touches all factors. This is not the work of one minister, one government, but this national campaign. Of course, when it comes to transportation, it is extremely important, and I am and what. It must be welcomed by a senator, such as Now, we're seeing electric planes that are going to be a revolution in public transport. We see that the countries we compare with are now considering recording airports that are long finished because they're such an enormous revolution, so we're just taking one factor. But I hope we have more opportunities to discuss these matters. The first electric plane has arrived in the country, and it is assumed that by 2026 we will see the mass production of 19 cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u14	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Food Minister for the bill as her warrior from the Northwestern district, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magny's daughter, has proposed, a bill to legalize the changing of the Law on Fish Control, and in regard to coastal fishing. This bill is aimed at ensuring the 48 fishing days of the coastal seas, attaching it to the law, and providing additional permission of the minister to transfer groups within the employment and rural network. In 1st. reports that each year the target of a fishing vessel is determined by the allowed total resources in that species and the share of the ship in that catch, according to the exception of the proportion of each species to be 10.3% in the seawater and 5.3% in other species and source loads. Two. is authorized by a minister to fully use sources within 5.3% of the system for 2022, this year, and is allowed by a minister to move to coastal fishing for up to 30% on cod - fishing grounds for the common cod space system, as well as the shell and shrimp-fishing fishing year for 2022 and 2023. This bill is designed to ensure coastal fishing for 48 days, as previously said, starting in 2022. This is an operation to further the seas across the country. The bill has raised high expectations among coastal fishermen, and many coastal fishermen around the country have declared support for this. I remind you, and I came here in a drunk earlier, to the highest. In the coastal fishing system, a minister took 1,500 tons of cod warrants. The question is, the Minister will support the bill. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir or not? It's a very simple question: Yes or no?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for still bringing up cases of coastal fishing. Of course, it is the right thing to say, and it is the underlying tone of question. A candidate, that it is very important that the part of the fishing system that is specifically intended for the job and rural work, including coastal fishing, achieves the original target. I'm not sure that in every case, i.e. that these goals have been achieved. Of course, these are some of the ways that are underneath, not only the beach fishing but also groundwater and wire and shrimp and Scaring. How important it is that we control our efforts by which measures have, in fact, been designed to reach the original goals! I think there's good reason to put the stitches on for sure. In my opinion, it won't be done by accepting a bill from what. A senator mentioned in this discussion because this is where the picture needs to be covered. We need to be careful of all the views below. The most precious goals given here are that we are right to support our country's settlements, that we are in fact making sure that the power under these infrastructure is paying off to the settlements of the country. [[The president calls.]] In order to answer the question as to whether it is, I need a more thorough review than the one who had it. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I can't understand this answer any other than that it is: no, I won't support it. I read it in her words. So that's where it's at. But I would like to state that the group's attitude in this matter in particular about this bill is that we will support this bill whole mind. We support all the increase in fish markets within the present fishing system, which increases the resources to shore fishing, to be sure. But our main objective and policy are free hand fishing. It is based on the United Nations Human Rights Department, where Iceland was judged guilty of violations of equality by the fishing system. I think that's why, now because of this loss of 1,500 tons, to open that case again, to reexamine that opinion. It's the leader of this bill that came with the beach weather in its own time. But I thank you very much. Minister for the answer, we are now absolutely in position.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u17	A respectable president. I expect that. A senator agrees with me that the question we need to ask is which projects have been most effective in supporting employment in scattered areas and what is most effective in relation to the value set aside for them. Of course, that is what counts. Does a ton of clams yield the same success as a ton of beach fishing? That question lies in the air, and that question needs to be answered. This material deserves to be sewn up before making decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u18	A respectable president. The theme of today is clearly a policy in the fishing road. I, like many others, have been tracking the elements of the Versailles, where the formation of the saying system is basically attributed. Despite being fictitious, political events are very close to right. The matter was traced from the first setting of the eating system to the free exodus. One thing that these factors help us to appreciate is that what happens, if the political course is not clear enough, is to bring in the most successful and interested ones and fill the void. The interests are the only option. Let's do four decades ahead, and we're in the world now. A government government in one terms period without making any significant changes in the system has already negotiated an additional terms. The chapter on a fishing business in the government covenant states that a committee, including one, should be formed. is intended to provide suggestions that should promote an increased level of reconciliation. I'm going to express a certain concern that these decisions are being made by a political committee that receives very vague and open instructions because the government groups are far too disagreed on these matters in order to lead the Tribal. Anyway, this is the way to go. That's why I want to ask the highest. Food Minister something open questions: How does planning for the Committee's establishment and when can it be expected that it will start work? How long does she get? Who can we expect to sit in it? And in fact, I just ask what else the Minister wants to share with us on this committee at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. At the same time, a candidate of the inquiry congratulates him on his virgin speech during this question session. If I get to answer the question as it is put up, which is relatively open as well as rough. A member of the Sanhedrin referred to it, which says in the Treaty: "There will be a decree. And then there's some story of it to map opportunities, etc., compare the situation here and abroad, and discuss how to increase the level of translucency, etc. I've been in the office of aquaculture and agricultural ministers and now Food Ministers for several weeks and, of course, have had this project on my paper as my almost project No. 1 since I took office. I'm thinking, first of all, that I don't have all the time in the world to think about how I'm gonna do this, and it's absolutely clear that there's going to be a question in question of how to do it. However, I also feel that this is not one project, that is more than one project. For example, these work-related issues have been referred to here. There have been some issues related to property connections and forwards, etc., which is another matter. All of this, however, is linked to an unbroken bond where we need to have some perspective on how our key work is being conducted. I don't think it's advisable to go to some giant commission that's gonna get the whole time in the world to set up a dramatic solution to this project. I think it's much more, so these are more projects, they're of different sizes, and I hope they do, and I'm kind of trying to put myself in the way, that at the end of this month, I have a work plan that will be timed out in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u20	I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This was somewhat within the expected range. It is still molding the idea and preparing exactly what to go in there and on what grounds. However, I allow myself to continue to have doubts about this, and I felt that it was really a bit in the case of a minister that this committee is not about to solve the existing political issues. Probably will work for some time, providing some kind of mapping and scoring analysis that may be new to information source and background work, but it actually includes larger questions that are more political in nature and are dealt with. The concept of reconciliation, what does that mean? See who? It cannot be avoided that some kind of attitude has been taken. [[The president calls.]] I'm also going to encourage this work to be done as cross-cut as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's good wishes, though they were a subject of doubt. But I think only of it as an incentive for us to succeed in this ideal period of furthering this matter. Of course, there are big words when such large a language is spoken of as being reconciled, and especially in the face of ongoing social differences. A senator named here in his first inquiry and is so well brought up in the Versa. Still, I am absolutely convinced that there are more than fewer people in this society who want more justice and want more reasonableness than people experience in the system as they are. Some of this can be resolved by increasing transparency and by ensuring that the laws of the law are truly respected. It's a lot of steps, and I'll take the sharpening of it. A senator indicates that the Porta council is interested in improving this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u22	A respectable president. In the past two years, general skills in the use of digital media, telecommunications, and telecommunications have also been developed as well as by technology. In December I, along with others, proposed a proposal for a resolution on university telecommunication, which is suggested to appoint a team to implement a further telecommunication plan, focusing on the development of a digital method of teaching. The proposal highlights the prevalence of Icelandic universities in the use of digital teaching methods, both to increase access to learning and to the quality of all study, whether a student attends the study within the university wall or at the telecommunications. In other words, the technology will always be used to make sure that study is good and accessible. It will emphasize that any study can be held as a remote course unless there is something that specifically discourages it, such as physical training. In no way, though, the importance of standard study is reduced. A respectable president. I realize the independence of university education is a lot, but I want to ask the highest. A university, industrial, and innovation minister of how governments can support and encourage university to increase the supply of digital education and, therefore, telecommunications. Then I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister is considered to be an option to define groups of people as due to special circumstances, such as housing, family circumstances, or the practice of achievement sports, although learning is being done for a degree of flexibility. Or, for example, would be. Can this group make greater flexibility during telecommunications in articles where telecommunication is not already available?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much. That's right, the most incredible things have happened in the last two years to get things, things that might have gone further, digitally wet in the right balance. We need to take advantage of the opportunities and fine cooperation that governments have had with the university in recent months and years in connection with the pandemic. The objective of the government's covenant is to use technology to create a better quality of life. There I feel that we are absolutely saying that one of the key elements to do this is to ensure increased access to study. We also need to do this to promote knowledge and to ensure equal opportunities for the transformations we need in the education system for the community we're creating, to ensure Icelandic ingenuity, etc. You're right. A senator says regarding the independence of the university. These are independent institutions, ministry, or Ministers, not specifically involved in the setting of study and teaching. Of course, we can help, and it is clear that the colleges have done certain diagnostic work recently, where to offer telecommunications, and at the same time where it is of interest to offer telecommunications. The student's freedom of choice must be the goal of the university, to increase it, and the Ministry is to help and encourage that development. Some colleges have defined themselves as remote schools, and others have endeavored to offer mixed studies. All these universities have taken tremendous steps over the last two years, and we need to make sure that the government helps them to offer more telecommunications. I think it's an idea. The senator of these special groups is something that we should consider at the same time and ask the university in particular if it is something they have been considering or are ready to examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is a big matter of interest to individuals and to the local community to be able to study without moving but also to gain the knowledge that communities need, for example, social advice and speech, much called after. Of course, people are concerned about what they can do now, not after four years, when the university policy induction is implemented. So I want to ask the highest. A minister would not need to react specifically now, when many more and less have spent two years in telecommunications in order to create a flexibility for people to complete their studies in telecommunications. These are people who either have a new Covid opportunity to get away from work or have been forced to take some long-term studies. However, it is a strange situation when students who have even received the information that there is no room for telecommunication in a certain study study study have not been allowed to attend school even though they have already rented special housing in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u25	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, we want people to have real choices about where they live and where they work. I've made a remarkable demonstration of this in the new ministry. It must also be shown as to the opportunities for education throughout the country. In the Treaty of the Treaty, it is clear that online education and access are to digital university education in Iceland, which increases access to education independently of habitat and situation. I don't think there's any point in putting that conversation up at the university whether and how we see it develop. We're trying to contribute to increased standards after the pandemic is over, hopefully, in the following weeks. We take up the conversation how people end their studies, expecting that they would for some time be that way. But we also added money to a budgetary board for a New Year's event in a class that has a special budget of 25 million. K. a contribution to increasing access to education independently of the home, including support to knowledge site, research institutions, and innovations in the country, where we are just trying to cut down the walls between them in this new Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u26	Mr. President. As it turns out, it is difficult for a respectable president to get those new names on the council. But maybe I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Secretary to congratulate you on a new ministry of about a week old today. I'd like to ask him specifically about the Ministry's organization. V.E.G. The minister reviewed it, in an interview with Inherja in the News newspaper, that it had a new perspective on how to behave the Ministry so that it will serve better for the public - all very exciting, I must say, and something we must all pursue. In payment of a Senate resolution on the Council's System, we talked a lot about how to tear down the silos between recruitment and the highest. A minister will first tear down the silos within the Ministry or make sure that they are not built. Perhaps I would like to ask a previous question, "Do you know what I mean? " A minister emphasizes the need for local jobs only if necessary. I would like to ask if a minister would consider himself to be going any further than in the government's reign of government, which is exactly what it is said that the work of the government is not to be localized, unless the nature of the work requires special action. Then I'd like to ask about the newly introduced ship. V.E.G. The minister says that the Ministry is now small and not self-employed, and I would like to ask how many status values are expected to be within this Ministry when it is finally set in place. And because of the highest. Ministers are going to disappear from the field office of standard advisers, I would like to ask how this would fit in with 17. law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which states that a minister should organise the Ministry's headquarters by dividing it into trade agencies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager for these questions. If innovation is not at home in the Ministry of Neon, innovation in the Board of Management and our administration, I don't know where it would be best to introduce it. If I could start with that as long as possible. A senator comes up on a job without a location, and it has been emphasized. An assessment showed that the Ministry could often offer approximately 11% of jobs without location. Many institutions showed even lower percentages, i.e. How many such jobs they felt they could offer. This, of course, was an assessment made before a pandemic, and then everyone has tried and seen that it is possible to go much further. So I think I'm going further and at least to walk ahead with good example in regard to government ambition, but also to take advantage of opportunities in many parts of the country, to use the knowledge available, so that the work advertised will be almost all, unless otherwise available, advertised without location. As to the values in the Ministry, they're about 35, I believe. It's about to take care of the last part, but I'd also like to look forward to a more planned approach, and I'd like to include people in a short time with those who are already working at the Ministry to push matters forward, to get new insights from people from other places, etc. In fact, for the professional offices, these are two, as it were, professional offices. Other EICs conduct and follow-up, which is spoken directly from LEF, the public financial laws, and their communications with institutions, budgets, negotiations, and basic management. The other is the Office of Policy Strategy, which then handles the project that the Ministry and Minister are going to set up and will be assigned to an office with the seminaries that hear under the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister's answers are good, and it's good to know that there's actually no turning away from professional offices. Rather, it may be an increased expression in this interview. V.E.G. Minister is talking about innovation in the administration. You see, in this interview, I did so with the U.S. News General. Minister wanted to look to private sector, e.g. on projects related to the approach, non-replacement, non-employment activities within the Ministry. This is now the Ministry of Neonogenesis wherever it takes place, and the fact of the matter is, of course, that the public system in recent years has had an enormous innovation with regard to the services provided, the products produced for the public, and only everything that names express. So I would like to ask if the Minister has anything to forget about these factors, because if so, e.g. Ignore the fact that the task drive has been ablaze in the last two years, and the public is today just very early on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the private sector is not the only role model. A minister might look to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for commending the government and the administration for all the good she has been doing, especially what has been going on at the highest level. Secretary of finance with Digital Iceland, with better services, with increased spelling so that people can have greater access to the public. It's just that you're right. A senator said that the government has done an amazing amount of work. But better yet, if this works, I'd like to go further, take advantage of opportunities that the government hasn't used for this moment as a technical company and innovation have been leading. Furthermore, the innovation in public service is one of the big things to be on the agenda, not only to our citizens, but also to use the amazing technologies and ideals and intelligence in our health and education systems, in our systems itself, and companies that we have been supporting this through a variety of technological development funds, e.g., that we use them to do better with the money and services of the country better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u30	A respectable president. I mean, in recent years we must have been taught that responsible government policy is the key to long-term prosperity and economic stability in Iceland; that everyone must have lived in favor when well-olds made a big difference in dealing with, using money when we were in a pandemic. Happily, there is now evidence that we are sailing into the last few months of this pandemic. You may never know, but positive signs are up at this time. If so, take a look at the scene and realize that we are now living in most aspects of the economy and that we are free of restrictions on our daily lives. Under these circumstances, the government's budget needs to reflect a change of time. I said here during the first few days of this pandemic that it was my opinion that we had to do more than less, that the damage done by doing too little could be more than the cost of doing a little too much. It's changed a lot. We now see that many of the machinery of the industry is in full swing. The effect of the pandemic is evident in specific areas, in tourism, in restaurant services, and in related articles, as we discuss these weeks, but in others, only some have been a little efficient in the economy. It tells me that we have managed to adjust economic measures in accordance with the situation, to rush over the most difficult time, to make sure that the necessary resistance is present when a cloud withdraws from the sun. It is also natural for us to reduce the support of the government on the economy. There would also be something special about the fact that at the same time the Sentennial Bank is growing to respond to more expansion in the economy, we would be in the same gear, in the same procedure as trying to stimulate the economy. It is not necessary to stimulate it in the same way after the return of 20,000 new jobs in the past 12 months or so. There are many ways of walking better than we were afraid to hope when we were wondering about the game. Year and everything, it calls for changing emphasis. The budget has been used with great force. That even appeared to us. over the last two years, about 530 billion. Yet, in spite of economic difficulties, economic profits have increased, financial resources have grown. It's really amazing. Even in this pandemic, money has grown, and it has never been greater, not even among the earners. Business failure - someone would have thought that they would be very prominent in the economy through a pandemic. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And unlike what has happened in many other places, the epidemic has not led to an increased level of income, yet we are talking about the economy with one of the largest earnings in the developed world. In historical context, we are beginning to rise again. But these low interest rates were of great importance in the lower financial burden of the country's homes. This fine story is so far from self - determination, and we need to pause. I'm glad to take up a discussion about these matters, and we just need to discuss them and ask ourselves, " What have I done well? ' It is so far from likely that humans can cope with so much uncertainty that we have been doing well in all aspects. Of course, some might have responded differently, but the results are excellent. In itself, we have enjoyed uncertainty until the last few weeks and the last days. Last week, a health minister spoke of his desire to be lifted this week. This shows that to this day we may have had only a week's vision of the future. During the past few weeks and months, we have been molding and providing for the council new and extended resources to help prevent damage from the ongoing limit of control. This year's project, in the beginning, was to evaluate the way to provide support for the homes and businesses in the country at the end of the struggle. We want to believe that we are there. Despite an excellent Christmas event and an excellent selection of restaurants in December, figures at the beginning of the year indicated that the population had withdrawn because of the virus wave. It began to happen by the end of December, we see it in Welsh. This trend developed in January through the spread of infectious diseases, and, of course, the spread of contaminants and isolation has had great effects. Similarly, the map was drawn to each tourist. We are not affected by this, but this is why we have continued to produce resources, some of which have come into the committee of the council. Today's a matter of measuring the general penalties. We have decided to propose to the council that they will be extended. This has led us to see a greater effect than we were hoping for in this last wave, although we may be getting out of it over the next few weeks. There were significant changes in the books. The number of tourists in January did not meet their expectations, and we see evidence that tourism companies will be affected in any way during the coming weeks, based on their previous expectations. But when we look a little further into the year, our appearance is fine. I'm convinced we're in the final phase of the fight with the virus. We are well-vaccinated. We have a powerful infrastructure. We have reasoned that we should be able to maintain a good fight and have a strong growth afterward to overcome limitations. But the government policy and how we use public funds is one of the key factors because the inflation is being reinvented. We need to set the controls together so that there will be short - term problems but will not follow us into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u31	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. Secretary of finance, he would like to be moved by the words to do more than less, one and a half years ago. But in the latter case, he puts more emphasis on doing less than more, and that makes sense. We're sailing out of the crisis, he says, but obstacles are far from the road. Especially do we need to be careful not to experience a reindent on the most vulnerable groups. That was quite a bold word, even from among them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance and the government of a fallout that began at the time was the result of responsible economic government. These declarations have given people expectations and have encouraged many to make more money when shopping than the materials may have been available. This may have included a number of young people who committed themselves to the very ground that then took place. Now, a few months later, Iceland's Secret Bank is quite clear about the possibility, in hand, that there will be a period of rapid growth. It is obvious, then, that the government has only a considerable responsibility for the situation that is now in the water and must respond to the more serious situation involved. And it's not right at the highest. The financial minister that there has been no increase in the quality of the situation, although averages may show that things are in the best condition. According to one survey, it is only recently seen that very many have the most difficult and delicate groups to do so than ever before. We can claim that the country's home is at least on orange warning now. So I ask the highest. Secretary of finance how he's going to react: Is it possible to raise the child's compensation, interest payments, mortgages, to meet the situation, or how will he react to the situation that lies ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u32	A respectable president. We are in a very different place today than we were when we first said we wanted to do more than less. We have a very different situation up here today. What the numbers are showing us is that we succeeded in what was being planned, i.e. to bridge the gap, place companies in shelters, reimburse human resources, and make sure that, on the basis of business relief, including companies, there is no problem. Because we could better open the border, etc, the companies would be in charge again. It's all worked out, exactly as we hoped it would happen. Indeed, in recent years, growth in the number of homes or buyers benefited greatly, benefited from the homes, helped to increase the cost of money. In recent years, which is also remarkable in itself, in the middle of a pandemic, we saw the largest number of new apartment merchants, i.e. the first apartment merchants have never been more than just recently. When they ask now if all these people are in trouble because they stepped into real estate, I say, "Not at all. We are receiving measurements of rising inflation, and there is concern. But people with long-term loans, I'm not talking about money-secured loans, are under cover for the short-term effects of such. The irresponsible lender may increase the burden of payment, and this may be a concern. But then it's the policy I've been talking about here year after year that people can reimburse their loans without paying their clock bills, as it was a few years ago. Then a government fund came and took taxes when people went to reimburse the loan. That's what we've canceled. Enriched and well - funded financial market is a fundamental premium that can be benefited when growth is reduced and taken for cover if it requires a loan of payment. I think at this point we're not up with such a problem, although there's reason to take the inflation numbers seriously, that it can be discussed on these grounds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u33	Mr. President. I realize that we're in another reality and that's what we need to plan, but it's interesting to the highest level. Minister only talked about the companies and their situation but less about their homes. What I'm talking about here is that the government gave unrealistic expectations when the growth reduction process started and the highest. The minister of finance directly spoke of us as suddenly in a new reality and gave people, these new ones, who were walking into a house market, the expectation that this would be so indefinitely. I'm gonna ask him, "Do you think he's the best?" The secretary of finance really does not have any responsibility for the situation with perhaps the full assurances based on his responsible economic regime over the last ten years, according to his own report? And I ask, isn't the government really going to do anything about this? Will she not face potential interest increases in the future by some counterarguments to ease these people's problems? And interestingly, considering the magazines published in neighboring countries, they are dealing with the same economic problem that exists in this area with specific measures; Britain, Norway, in many places, despite many times the growth in the area. This is about to be increased from 0% or 0.5% by any points. Here we are in a completely different reality. And I'm asking you again the highest. Secretary of finance: Will he really not, if he was to take possession of what has been successful in this epidemic, take on the fact that this was a reckless talk a year and a half ago and do something to meet the challenges facing people today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u34	A respectable president. What I've been through is getting the United States to realize that when they lose 20,000 jobs in the private sector, we have to worry about the companies. [[Up front.]] What the Conspiracy wanted to do in that situation was to hire more government employees. My focus was all on retrieving these jobs because the jobs that were lost in the pandemic were all in the private sector. [[Up front.]] That's why the position of the companies was so important. This is absolutely fundamental. We will also see what happens at the government fund when things are going wrong in the private sector. That's right. That's 100 billion in a minus, 100 billion a.m. Are we responsible for the lowest housing interest in Iceland history? I'll take responsibility for that. I'm proud of it. There's a very big difference between the reality that I was facing as a young man, my first apartment purchase was made, so I got a letter of the house and had to deal with 20% of what happened. I got only 80% of the loan I wrote on paid out, 20% disappeared at the same time. Then there were 8% interest. I am proud to have participated in securing the economic stability that has led to the lowest interest level in our economic history. We are now up - to - date, we are at risk, but we can respond. We simply must not get ahead of ourselves, and we need to do what we can with our public finances. The late bank is independent, and it has made its decisions on growth growths on that basis, and of course it is important that we find ways that support success in the labour market. That's what matters. I'm not trying to belittle the lack of household resources by raising interest on the mortgages. It's not a good thing, but there's no such thing that society has become upset. There's no such harm now. This can happen, however, if people fail to keep their plans in proper place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u35	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Financial and economic secretary for the review of the government's economic activities for the Covid-19 pandemic. It is sometimes said that the easiest thing in the world to do is to be wise afterwards, and I think there's a lot to it. Why do I mention it here? Simply because of the fact that when this epidemic began, we had no idea of how it would develop or where it would go. The situation that has existed in Icelandic society and, indeed, around the world, is unprecedented, as has repeatedly been observed, and something that I think none of us sitting in this room have ever intended that we as a nation should face. At the beginning of the epidemic, nobody realized how long that period would be, and first predictions in February 2020 were looked to spring or even autumn that year. Today, we know that there is another reality, and the reality is that although we feel that the light at the end of the tunnel is not entirely certain when it is possible to say that the task is done. Madam President. When I say I'm finished, I'm talking about both of them, the epidemic as such, and also the tremendous economic consequences they've brought us as a nation, and when we can say we've recovered from the economic valley in which the nation and really is in the whole world. The measures taken are significant and, in my opinion, have worked very well to address the impact that the country's Icelandic economy, businesses, and homes would have suffered, with completely unpredictable consequences. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretarys have tried to assess the impact on Icelandic society unless any government action had been taken in this epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u36	A respectable president. We have provided reports based on work that a special service group produced to me, and this work was thought to evaluate the need for economic action, the effect of doing too little, but we were also trying to evaluate the effects of it if we were possibly too small in the treatment strategy. It was very clear, and it came out fine, I think, as we went further into this epidemic, that when nothing is done because of the rapid spread of infectious diseases, there is a situation of fear. Iceland would not have been considered a tourist resort, for example, if this had been the highest level of infection in Europe at that time or the most insurgent hospitalisations, etc. It once again affects the economic activities and activities of people. I don't have any numbers for what? A senator on how much it would have cost us not to do anything. But there is no question that economic degradation did not become as deep because of what was decided to be done. What was our decision? On the one hand, we were holding hands and allowing these automatic balances, so - called just to do our job. That means, for example. that when economic crisis occurs, the government's income is reduced because the taxes are weakened. We thought we'd do it then, but we didn't go up on taxes to get it back, on the contrary. We're just going to accept the loss of income. But we did more than that. We went to the gate of pay for new expenses, where we thought it might be of longer use to us, and I'm particularly referring to the investment campaign. Besides that, we had special economic operations to support the economy, where we thought the most was needed. When we look back and ask ourselves: " Which of these were the funds that went out of the state's budget as a special covid output on the job scene, then we'll see that they went just where the problem was greatest, i.e. to travel services. And how did all these funds come to be available to support homes? Yes, we were on hand with homes that had lost their jobs and that had lost their income. That's the figures I'm referring to when I'm talking about buying the resources of the income of all incomes at the labour market was increasing through the epidemic. That's a very remarkable fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u37	Madam President. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. It is clear to everyone that the economic work we received during the pandemic is and was enormous. I just want to use this opportunity here to commend the authorities for the actions that have been taken and for the solidarity achieved here, including and in the assembly of the Syrians, and concerning them. It is quite clear that these measures have been reduced, such as the highest. A minister entered earlier, the fluctuation and reduced the economic impact that the epidemic could have had on our society. Of course, we can discern whether it was enough or too much, but I think the action has been taken and that there is something we can build on for the next year. If you just look at the actions, they're really serious. It has been paid out about 10 billion in visibility, 11,628 applications, 10,600 supplied. 2.8 billion in closing volume, reimbursement of cost tax totals about 13.3 billion, and the largest share, 9 billion, is due to new building and maintenance of housing. There are 11.3 tax pay costs and 37 billion special kickbacks available. In addition, there is credit, temporary resources, stress payment, employment grants, and starts jobs, the part - time improved way, income dropout, a bridge loan, pay in a ruling process as well as the travel process, to name something. In view of my list of these projects and the fact that the state funds that we now see are far better than forecasts, I would like to ask the highest level. A minister to see whether it is his opinion that the places we have reached in the country's economy and the state's position are partly or entirely due to the actions taken in the wake of an outbreak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u38	A respectable president. In this regard, I'm going to refer to the last approved financial programme, where we were working with an evaluation of our actions and in a financial program that appeared in the spring of 2020, we were also wondering what would happen if we went beyond our brightest predictions and what it would mean only to our heads if we received the optimistic predictions and not those basic predictions. In fact, what has really worked out is our optimistic predictions and, yes, I'd like to mean that it's, to a considerable extent, because we've done well in this scheme of ours to protect our homes and businesses in the most difficult time. Of course, then there are many factors that we cannot quite control. It matters what the situation is in our business countries. The situation on the international flight matters. Travel is important, not just Icelanders, but others. There's a lot of things that we can't control. However, in view of our difficult situation, I think that in many ways we succeeded, and that is why we recommended a financial policy where we only reduced the focus of stopping debt as quickly as previously planned and postponed it for one year in the new financial policy, we pushed it into the future a year further to stop the increase in debt ratio, as the figures are much better than the previously predicted. This does not change the fact that in the years to come, it is my opinion that this great debt is a serious situation, and we need to find ways to stop the debt, and I think that eventually we will be judged by the way we did in the years after the outbreak's impact stopped. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for a clear description of the situation. There have been great sacrifices made by individuals, families, and businesses. All too many companies have fallen, lost endurance, but we in the people's Gang have rejoiced at the efforts taken to achieve and celebrate what is going to be described here today that are strong to try to help men cope. I think we need to celebrate, too, as noted earlier, that the status of the state funds was only very good when those storms broke, including Because of the unexpected failure of the stability project to some 630 billion, if I recall correctly, 100 billion more than the negative management of the state fund in recent stages described by the minister of the past. But now I feel that there is reason for me to be adamant in the cheeks of those here who may have had to suffer, and then I am appealing to the worst part of society. Based on the potential situation, the lucrative industry that is relatively new here, as well as its land - and - sea environment, as well as its practical circumstances, do you not have every reason to give people hope that this will be the case with the inflation and will bring the greatest relief?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u40	A respectable president. I strongly believe that the wrong response to these inflation numbers can add to the inflation problem. Of course, these are figures that are considerably different from the Pentateuch's inflation target and are of concern. We just need to take time to analyze the numbers and ask what causes, and we see these two prominent elements, i.e. On the one hand, increase in housing prices and then shifted inflation. There is a significant inflation in the United States, just one of the greatest for a very long time, and in the euro, there is also about 5% inflation, so there is no other way to expect that we will be affected by inflation in other countries in the price of an imported product. Today, this system of things is simply so that its effects across all borders, the inflation does not respect them. In this relationship, I would like to and highlight in the discussion that there are not underlying weaknesses that we continue to take into the future that are the main source of the cause of this debate, but there is evidence that we could foresee the end of these prices. Therefore, it is important not to react in the wrong way at this point. To say that, I just refer back to my earlier words here, we need it now to achieve the good interaction of those who come here most of all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I think no one saw this coming when interest was transferred to the historical minimum described here. That was no doubt a good thought for those who were fighting in the banks, the companies who were slaving and collecting debts. But I think that most people did not realize these side effects, which were the housing problem, that suddenly people saw the opportunity to reinvigorate or expand, and, suddenly, growth had become low and were becoming practical. I don't think that was a real meaning with this growth reduction, and it's knowing that much of the country's main reason for inflation is that it's moving the growth back up again. You wonder, though, about the recent idea that the government camp may be able to reduce the cost of housing from the index, as it might seem in neighboring countries. Is it not quite time to take the inflation into something less than 4% if it might be a flare and then be more comparable to other countries that do not necessarily have the housing market inside their index? I welcome what was presented here two weeks ago during a similar question period when the secretary of finance confirmed that the long - awaited road was now taking place in an overall review of the social security system, and I also ask: Will it not probably be added there, not only to move the joints in between, but to be sure it will not be added when it comes to the overall review?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to use this time just to talk about the housing market and weaknesses that I think are there on that market. I don't think anyone should have been surprised to know that when interest rates were dropped, property prices would rise. It happened in stock markets, it happened at the housing market in Iceland, it happened in Germany, Norway, Sweden, Britain. House prices will increase if growthprofen falls readily. It always happens everywhere, at least in voluntary economy and open. As for this low interest, I would also like to say that there is not a law in Iceland with the Icelandic crown, our own currency, that the interest must always be much higher than in any other country. It depends on economic factors. This interest level that we have lived under, although we have not seen it before, I think, in the long run, can be a realistic interest level if other aspects of the economy are well balanced. I believe it. I believe that we don't have to pick up another currency to enjoy this kind of growth, and I also believe that it's a great benefit from having our own currency, and we have more long-term success in economic management in this way. So now that growth has begun to rise again, I just want to draw out that this is because there has been a conflict between supply and demand. The invitations of the facility market have failed, and the tools we have had, the controls, to keep track of have been insufficiently powerful. I mention, for example, that driving between Volkswagen Polo and looking at what's going on and writing down on a roll -lined page makes no sense in a real economy. We're working on this, and there's so much else. [[The president calls.]] The regional structure of the capital area has proved to be a completely useless tool to organize the number of property projects ready for construction, etc. [[The president calls.]] We are breaking up children's clothes almost in building under a control device to influence the housing market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u43	The president reminds us of a limited talk time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u44	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this report on the economic situation now in the Covid epidemic, along with the review of the various measures taken to meet companies and persons in the epidemic. I agree with that with the highest. Minister I think it is of utmost importance how the situation has responded and that the good standing, including the good standing, has been in progress. the amount of unemployment that has been brought together is attributable to this. I think it's important to also mention here that the decision to protect the health and welfare system from this epidemic and, in fact, better in some areas, despite the fact that taxes have been drawn together, was extremely important, and involved in the success of the epidemic. But because of the highest. One minister admitted that the epidemic did not lead to an increase in income balance, which I think is a matter of enormous importance in itself, I just want to get more information on how this is being measured and how to follow it, i.e. that action or inactivity should not result in more conflict, since, of course, all of us know about cases of individuals who, unfortunately, are not doing well enough. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to know which foundation the Ministry is looking for this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u45	A respectable president. I would like to state that in the context of income balances in the community, we are here discussing the labour market and the working, and those who gain unemployment insurance benefits, or who have received other special support measures. The data applied are primarily from the government tax manager after the stress, and then after the Habitat incident. I think it's extremely important to keep track of it. Actions we used were generally tailored to the problem. In some cases, we saw support measures taking place in money-rich companies, we just did it with our eyes open, that's just a fact. This was because we wanted our actions to be general, and it was clear that we preferred to use general measures with some high thresholds for accessing the resources. I'll mention, for example, the maintenance grant that is actually for smaller companies, that we've been working with a 40% trade target and provided you meet the basic conditions and that no one else is really asking what the company's balance rate looked like in other ways. That's what I think made sense. It would have brought on us an infinite complexity to plan to settle the party, and I don't know how reasonable it would have been. Otherwise, we used supportive measures that have been successful, and I may specifically mention those who have received child support, and I recall that we began to step up that system in our actions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u46	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it's important to draw this out, that it's being used for the best available data to shed light on the situation and to react to it. In my first speech, I learned that this was a decision to protect the health and welfare system, and I would like to add, of course, that it is of particular importance to people who are not active in a job market, so that it was an important economic and important equation. V.E.G. Ministers have talked about it, and it has only been discussed here, how the measures were made in general that perhaps now we are trying to make them more specific, and we have been discussing more specific resources in the labour market. But because it's so interconnected, it's not possible to dissociate the workforce from the community or the community from the labour market, I just want to know if it's further specific measures that are involved, not directly in the labour market, but in order to support people in maintaining health. There's a lot of talk about coldness. That is a lot of talk, and we hear a lot of the problems people face that make it just difficult to participate in a job market because of the way the epidemic has played the community. Is such specialized measures being carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u47	A respectable president. Perhaps in this latter context, I would primarily want to point to a mental health care that these groups who have continued to cooperate in this government have promoted since 2017; we had arranged these matters very carefully in the prior constitution and had financed them well when the epidemic occurred and we made a special addition. I agree that it is at just the same time that people have to be especially careful about the problems in this area that can develop into chronic illness and people who may previously be active participants, etc. A workforce will be permanently lost if we act in support at the right time. But now that we are wondering how successful we were today, we can be reminded that these are so unprecedented. It was almost overnight that we entered into a community situation that lost tens of thousands of jobs. It really happened only from March until June, July 2020, that tens of thousands of jobs disappeared. There is no small task to deal with for the government and for the council. I have to say, I feel pretty good looking back now and asking if we have been ready to act in accordance with the circumstances, stopping things that were not going well, such as This original loan with a state responsibility, we changed it as the epidemic grew and the rest that could be picked up and mentioned here in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u48	A respectable president. The declared government policy in connection with economic restoration after Covid-19 is growing out of the problem. This is not an unknown way to grow, to create new ones, etc. Alternatively, e.g. Let's mention that when we walked through the collapse of 2008, we saw a huge increase in innovation. The same happened a few years later when the oil prices collapsed and the oil industry in Norway crossed into the new world. However, even though we have contributed good money in innovation over the last two years, this is the case when we consider the financial program to the highest extent. A major reduction in the donations made for innovation was provided by the secretary of finance before Christmas. In this way, 2022 budgets are estimated to be less than 30 billion, but they will be cut down quickly until 20 billion in 2025. It seems like a sound and a picture doesn't quite go together. It is difficult to understand what it is to contribute to innovation as the government's expenses fall by one third. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: How is it to support green innovation and innovation in general in order to grow out of this? That's my will to the highest. A minister can explain this and give the newly created community hope that they should actually invest in innovation during the election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u49	A respectable president. I am glad that the increase in innovation is noticed, and perhaps least of all, the competitive funds that I have been living in have been agreed on and promoted by governments. We're actually talking about a revolution on donations from a competitive fund in recent years. We're talking about things that were hardly dreamed of being fulfilled in the few years that have passed in this context. Technologies and Research Funds have received large amounts of contributions. We've seen a great investment, and I mean that we've already seen the first wand as a product of this increased donations. Whatever it is. A candidate is referring to the fact that these contributions are reduced from the fund, but it is far beyond what we saw five, six, seven years ago. In addition, we have been making large improvements in research and development, and much more is involved. The remunerations for research and development work done in Iceland by the European Commission, large and small, are running at billions, 3◯4 billion each year. This is beyond what we've been doing to improve movie and music and other places. So if we look so wide above the area, look at the laws, the motivations we have created, the tax changes, the direct contributions, the indirect contributions, the appeals to green investments, etc., we simply have the environment involved in this activity in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u50	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance may not have completely answered my question, but that is my hope. Ministers reviewed the plans to cut into innovation simply because it will ensure a much greater entrance into a government fund than it does. The number of investments that have been put into the number of budgets. But I'd like to discuss another matter in the future. In a recent survey made by a tourist council, it is concluded that the situation with smaller companies in the tourism industry is very bad. You see, when the three largest companies in each article are released, they are, for example. The debt status and negative personal financial status of these small enterprises are very bad. Now, about 80% of the financial resources that the state fund has contributed in the past two years have gone to these large enterprises, but there are enterprises which also have better access to loans, stocks and other resources that smaller companies don't have. Many of these smaller companies have, of course, taken advantage of their ability to postpone payment, but they have to pay for it at some point. My question is, how are you planning to do the ultimate? Budget and economic secretary will respond better to the position of these smaller tourists in the tourism industry? And I'm especially thinking about my own post and long term debt because it's still the problem we've been putting off for two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u51	A respectable president. These contributions can be watched with different glasses. If we put our glasses on as big as we can. A senator had this, and he just asked, "Where did the money go? Where did the large sums of money go? Then it's true that there was more to the bigger companies, but I think we did what we did. One senator must agree that if you were to have a routine to watch two airlines, Mice and Illelands, it's just the same thing, it's an airline, and they just get the same level of cash. Of course, it is obvious that bigger companies were more likely to have more support. Still, we always had a roof, and there was a limit on how much government support could be taken because of individual support measures. I'm also going to say in this context that if we put on other glasses and ask about the number of companies that received support, we will find that the vast majority of companies who received support, if we just turn to the mass, were small and medium-sized, very small enterprises actually. If we look at maybe 50% of the recipient, it's a very small business. So, in line with the shock we're trying to deal with, we've done well with what we had to change. Besides, I have to say here in the end, because we are in general discussing the tourism in this context, that the situation for the epidemic at a very large number of travel services was causing a poor outcome. Many of these enterprises were not successful when the epidemic struck, and we were not changing them by supportive measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u52	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for this discussion that I think is very important at this point. You remember sitting here at a council last term when the Covid epidemic hit, and the fog was huge, and you didn't know what you were expecting. I'll admit I was afraid, I was afraid we were about to experience a similar situation, and we experienced here following the collapse of the bank. You were afraid of mass failures, both homes and businesses, and Gagittic unemployment. V.E.G. A minister mentioned it just before that the government's man - made plan was to do more than less. We used to sit here many senators. The Economic and Business Committee took over these economic procedures. The situation was that the economists, whether it was national or other people at the market, were predicting the situation, it was always black, there were always very black predictions that came. Still, they did not come true, since action did not result in the fulfillment of these predictions. So I agree with what's been said here, that the situation is so much better than any man ever had the courage to hope when we were entering this epidemic. Our success in the economic climate through this pandemic is well - modeled. But the next step. V.E.G. A minister here speaks of fitting the controls together properly. We see the inflation rise, and I would like to ask the highest. Minister: What exactly does he mean when he speaks of adjusting the controls and holding the cards properly? What measures will we see in this hall? What is the highest measure. Minister that we see at the Secret Bank, and how will these automatic rhythms compare with what is prepared in our system already answer this condition that we look forward to? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u53	A respectable president. What I think is, the state power is not performing very stimulating measures at the time of the job cycle and the job is being filled and we've had unemployment rates that are comparable to what was meant before the pandemic, but maybe it's not the time to have some very stimulating actions. We need to get back to some normal balance in these matters. Support action involving sharing money is something that will always be called behind, and we should just assume that it will be called after action even longer than there is a real need. Then it's important to just take a look at the situation at a time, and the way I've been tracking it, and we just see in economics, there's a really good record in the economy. It is a serious matter, however, that government funds are being expelled with an enormous pitch at this time. Of course, keeping action out of place does not require sufficient benefits, and it does take a lot of dizziness on the side of the government, and it does not make sense. I just came back to the point where everyone should be faced, that when the SERVANT has set up a growth process because the production service is no longer there, we, who have been here, must encourage and encourage and make sure that we turn our emphasis accordingly. Still, I'm talking about us taking a few years to get an even hold of the money. I think that's a good idea. Too rapid adjustment could have harmful consequences, i.e. if we schemed the equation too soon. [[The president calls.]] But that's what I mean when I'm talking about fitting strings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and agree with these views. I think it's important that we stop the state's debt collection, but we need to do it at a reasonable rate. I'd like to ask my second question to focus on the local situation. Farmers may be less able to cope with the situation, and their situation may vary considerably. Of course, they're an overwhelming variety in sizes and sizes, and that's one of the things I have. Speak up, you need to reduce the number of rural areas, and they need to be bigger and more powerful. We now face very likely a difficult bargain, and I would like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister: What measures does he envisions on part of public financial matters depend on the communities? How can he and we here in this room support the ability of fellow rural society to support the fundamental work required by law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u55	A respectable president. We've only touched the situation of our financial institutions. We are looking for a longer time, and we have a projection or plan on how the key terms on the economic side look in a few years. We know these major controversies with rural society. Some remain unsolved after years of conversation and are not very large. I give the host tax we talk about in the Treaty, how to restore it in the future, and what law should then apply to the income exchange between state and rural society, in the context of which it should take place, in the context of other financial relations. I'm here discussing the issues of disabled persons that are in conflict, despite the fact that we've given ourselves a lot of time to go through so - called probationary times, and there are other things that have to do with the balance fund and such things that we need to discuss. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u56	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. I don't necessarily share his opinion, both in the past and in the future. We are making a breakthrough, and the future is uncertain, but there are, of course, certain things that must be faced, not just what has happened, but what we will do about it. When you look at financialism, you come in. so that pay development should conform to the level of merit, as it is called. And because it's the highest. The secretary of finance spoke of my own history, about letters of house and like, I would like to mention that I've had three gradations in my life. When I was a young man in his early 20's who tried to buy an apartment, I suffered from an inflation of 100%. It's in my mind the Icelandic merit, it's like this. At regular intervals, the people of the United States have to cope with this kind of crisis. We're seeing a lot of people who borrowed some credit. Since then, inflation has increased by half. We see inflation at 5.7%, but people borrowed from good religion when inflation was 2% or 3%. This is a big change. I'll ask them a minister, in view of the fact that this situation exists and people are losing their power of purchase, how he intends to employ it in the next bargains that a bonus can be negotiated.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u57	A respectable president. I think it's done pretty well with that. A senator spoke of the importance of earning a living in harmony with high prices in the country, and he recalled that this was not always the case. At the time of rest. A senator referred to us as living with a score of inflation; she went to 100%, as mentioned; and I think exactly that the incident was that the level of pay development was not in line at all. That is what happened here in the 1980's. With all these little stories in the books, the story I described from my own experience world, and the story as it was. A senator comes along, and another thing that has been discussed here today and over the years, I think if we have the advantage to build on the experiences of the generations, we will succeed in maintaining economic stability, using the controls we've been building up, and controlling the situation from having increasing inflation back into a balance. We can do this if we just don't lose control over these main systems, if we don't try to pick up, whether in a government fund or in an employer's pocket, something that's not there, and we need to borrow and just have to return all the costs and interest in the future. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that for the poor of income, in particular the inflation can take on provisions. But we can't take the discussion about the housing market so isolated. Of course, it is also important here that loans do not develop in the way the discussion is indicated, when the price of housing is rising, the same households do not develop in the way that the discussion is needed; they are also growing stronger.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u58	A respectable president. How should a collective agreement be made when inflation is 5.7% in order to obtain a bonus? Is the labor movement merely to negotiate 2% in the hope that in some way inflation is reduced? Now in January, the bank manager had a chance to allow the crown to grow stronger, which could have affected the demand ahead, but men went on spending their currency, not to improve the interest of the public, but to improve the interests of my business. We are now in the position of teachers who have signed collective agreements, BHM wants education to be paid for, ASI wants the lowest salary to be increased. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: How on earth are we going to do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u59	A respectable president. I think the housing case will be one of the key factors in the implementation of collective agreements. At the government level, we are already starting a conversation about setting up work to strengthen the foundation of the conversation over housing matters in the pursuit of collective agreements. But, of course, that's not true. A senator that it is difficult to negotiate when inflation is over-targeted and when there is uncertainty about inflation development. You're absolutely right. In general, when we discuss this in the light of experience, labor leaders are expected to ask for inflation, and things above, so that there will be some power to buy. But we also see from experience that, under such circumstances, it is often difficult to make long - term contracts. Perhaps we just need to get through this period of shorter steps and master the situation in the meantime to trust the basis for long-term contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for review, but I think I'll have a little more than a minister's story explanation. We've got a full-scale operation on the top of the watch. In the beginning of this epidemic, a government that has been more and less in control here during the last ten years, which included limiting responsibility as much as possible to the situation. This will be forgotten in this discussion. It was held for a very long time by direct action that the Minister today boasts of, in the realm's affairs, until everything was headed for the coast, for nine months the companies waited for money. This will be forgotten during the discussion. However, because the market knows best, the bank's personal spending requirements were released quickly, and banks had to be dropped. In this cry from the financial system, the failure was very rapid. This void left behind by slow action led to the portent entering and decreasing the rate of terror. The result is the wealth of banks, 80 billion, after the one greatest crisis in Iceland. The result is that almost all the money reached the housing market. The result is a 25% increase in housing prices. Another such increase over a period of five years. The result is $450 billion. the extra-involvement of the households which seems irrelevant. The result is 6% inflation. And now, historically, growth rates, young people, and income shortages have added enormous debt during this period, and although inflation falls, these debts remain. So I ask the highest. Financial Minister: Does it seem reasonable to him that certain groups of people take on the government's economic failures to react so late? You're on top of it. A minister's natural to see such a quick reversal in the interests of any of these groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u61	A respectable president. I did not fully understand what was listed here as a criticism of the Secret Bank and of what was to be applied to the responsibility of the government. But I don't want to agree that we've been waiting for action. We immediately arrived in March 2020 with our first action, and then we were in an extreme uncertainty period in which you could see only at best a few weeks ahead of time, and some experts who came to you asked a man to keep in mind that all of this could go on to 8◯12 weeks. In accordance with each situation, we'll bring some new measures, bring this so-called tool package. After all, we are not on an excellent position today to ask, "How did the homes survive the epidemic? " How did we manage to do our job? Did we succeed in ensuring any resistance when the light began to relight? Did we put the government money over our heads? Was It Right to Take an Investor? Where'd the money go? Did they move to where the problem was greatest or not? I've been declaring this afternoon that I felt that we were very effective in these measures, and we've managed on the economic side as well as on health issues where we were defending people's lives and health, these key goals have been achieved to drive us through one of the most economic pressures we've experienced without having any major complications. It says that the debt insured stays behind, the debt increases. But if we look at this in the value of the crown, the debt is not rising far beyond inflation because of the fact that the interest in money has been very low during this period, and against these prices, property that has been rising, as it is described, has not been developing in a shockingly difficult way. What we must do, we are here talking about long - term loans, loans that are usually taken for decades, is asking: How can the homes get through their difficult financial burden temporarily? [[The president calls.]] Will the loans can be reimbursed? Will Homes Be Covered? These are the key questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u62	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I just think it's so much. Economic and economic ministers are responsible for the economic situation, so if we see 6% of inflation, a 25% increase in housing prices, and we see the situation as it is, the responsibility is certainly in the relevant person. What I'm trying to draw attention to here is exactly that we don't make this mistake to wait too long. There were big words that just don't have to do anything, so I rolled it up here in a pinto to the highest. Minister: Is this being observed at the Ministry of Economics? Is analysis team now working on the analysis and the assessment of what these people are in debt and how much, how much this growth will change in this context? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u63	Hv. A senator had one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u64	- I've got 30 seconds left. It was also a very fast minute, if that was it. I wondered: " Is this work going on? I think it's a fundamental premise now, that the Ministry of finance has the ability to predict this in this context. There are a number of people who are going to be very poor in such rapid growth changes. There's no one who can tell me that it's normal to have a 2% rotation of growth during such a short period of time. There is a possibility that this will cause problems. So I reiterate at the highest. Minister. On a formal job to look at this, or it's just a feeling. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u65	A respectable president. Yes, we follow along in many ways. We monitor what is coming from the Sensitive Bank directly, including the U.S.A. and in this context, there is financial stability in the country. Not many days ago, the Ministry of Financial and Economic Affairs had a meeting with all the systematic important banks, individually, in order to obtain information about the position of major customers and the residence of the banks. It compares entirely with what we see in the Federal Bank that oversees the financial market, that there is a minimum divorce in Iceland in companies and households. Involvement is growing in the financial system. The situation within the financial system does not reflect the serious state of the country's homes. But I think that's right. A senator that it may change somewhat quickly and must be followed closely from month to month, and I restate the fact that inflation is the worst problem with the incomeiest homes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u66	A respectable president. I think, like the highest. The minister of finance was well - aware that governments have gone through this turbulent sea. In fact, operations for the businesses and households of the country have given us tremendous opportunities. These include struggles like everyone's work, starting jobs, improving the way of work, holding up a scholarship, delaying the pay and insurance fees between 2020 and 2022, etc. Today, however, we look at the situation where inflation has begun. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance expressed it: There are signs of danger. So we look at her again and again and ask how best to handle the situation. In direct contact with this, it is worth referring to the staff of the index price, which has often caused problems and has had a significant impact on the level of securities loans. It has led to a marked rise in insurance loans. So it would be interesting to know if the ultimate. A financial minister believes that it is time to look into these issues and even take them out of the index, as well as whether it was considered to do so temporarily while we are dealing with the biggest problem. There is also the possibility that management interest will be upcoming from the Federal Bank and ahead of high increases in raw markets. This, of course, raises everything: energy, food, construction costs, etc. Which is an important part of our normal life. It would also be interesting to know whether the minister feels that the way is reasonable in the situation today. With all of this, the power of purchase is dwindling. We're getting less for our crowns, and there's something we all have here, the hired men, when that happens. At the end of the line, a respectable president, it would be interesting to roll it up with the highest. Ministers how to handle these situations and how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u67	A respectable president. We have been able to expand our work by examining the index team and finally, after a conversation with the labour market members, to our foreign experts. I mean, we've had one of the world's top experts in this field for counseling. I'd like to say about the fact that I don't think the job is finished. As the secretary of the wood has only come in, I think it may be possible to continue with the tips that came out of that job. But I'd like to get back to it. If we were to consider, for example, a conversation between banks and customers and the bank would say, "Tell me what index number you want to use, and then I'll tell you who the interest will be. It's not like we can just say, "Hey, there's some interest going on, and then we can just select a index number. " Of course, it's important for someone who is accessing loans, that there is a index. We cannot accept a index that has been in force and simply change its composition and say that the same terms still apply in other ways. It just doesn't work that way. If there is any greater uncertainty about the long - term development of the index factor, the growth of the budget may have negative consequences. It can, for example, be used. Depending on the length of time, this can be added to the growth rate. This is something that needs to be included in this discussion. We can't just choose the exact time point when things will develop this way for those who are bound to this index and say, "Well, that's a good reason to unplug it. In fact, I think that was the main reason for the labor movement to accept this in its time period that there would be nothing to do in this change during the last term. But as I said, I believe that the matter is and that it should continue to be considered. I don't think we're totally scratched in stone how to do this, I think we have tips that's still supposed to work with. What can we do when we are given high prices, e.g. Outside, if we just take the show? I don't think there's much to do about it. We are primarily to examine the situation of the weakest groups, and we realize that there is a possibility that such inflation will occur. With regard to the housing market, I've only come to see today that there are cracks in the market that we have to take seriously. I think we could do so much better. In my opinion, the biggest mistake we made right now is to increase the demand further when it is clearly on the forward side that something is missing into the equation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u68	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and is pleased to learn that this work on the mortgage is not fully completed. It's gonna be interesting to see what's coming along that way. I may only want to allow myself to change the course, but not, in this discussion and discuss the organizational or housing issues. I heard it in the discussions here at the highest. A minister gave a very interesting point, which I have now discussed in other fields, as a local council member very close to us, in Hafnarfjördund, and this is the regional structure of the capital area. I heard you were at the highest. A minister was very decisive in his view that the regional organization was something that even needed to be considered. I must say, Madam President, that I completely agree with the highest. A minister of it, in fact, has been saying that for a very long time. Somehow we have to start looking at things in a larger context. We are very close to such areas as Elfus and Smokeytown, and this has become one business area, but the capital area is somehow preventing further housing in these areas. If I mention Hafnarfjörður fun as an example, we simply have no new structure structure available within the range we work on, within the local structure. The territory organization has 2040 and 18 years to go. This may involve some of these matters in a mixture and, of course, may be related to other ministers too, but I ask in a way that is superior. Secretary of finance sees this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u69	A respectable president. With regard to the regional structure, I would have thought that this was one of the few devices we have to bring together which can most influence the forward side and get them at this job to evaluate the need and ask ourselves: Is it what we share on this table likely to meet the demand in the maps? And that's where we got something of a problem I came in earlier. We may not have been particularly powerful in looking into the future for a long time. But we have in recent years, including has been making changes and has established this new Homing and Civilization Institute, which has been given increased definitions in this subject and has recently been compiling numbers showing that the front is still lacking. So you ask yourself: " Although the regional structure has a different purpose than just this, sometimes it feels like this when such big interests happen that people are somehow just going through some squares to have checked into a box and draw out some good pictures of how they see the inhabited earth stretching out into the future and how the main voyages lie, etc. but they are not asking hard enough whether they are meeting the needs of the local inhabitants. It is a sin, for it is a perfect tool for doing exactly that. Once the regional planning is completed, it should be possible to have a clear answer to that question. Well, there's a demand here. Do we have this organization for the whole capital area meeting the need and is running out? This does not change the importance of rural society's ability to have very different priorities. It's obvious if we take, for example. The rural communities Hafnarfjördur, Garden Town, and Kópavog have been a far different focus, much faster structure in Kópavogur than in other rural areas. [[The president calls.]] There's room for it to do organizational work. This key question, however, surely we would like to be answered for such a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u70	A respectable president. To me, the government's economic prospects are that there are more tourists in the country, so there is hope for travel to take over. There really is nothing else in the government maps except for tourists coming and the largest industry in the country to take over. But that does not mean that it will be that way. All world epidemics, all oscillators, have always led to fundamental changes in technology, life prospects, and general changes. That's how it was after the Spanish flu, and that's how it's gonna be now. After the Spanish flu, we were given the twenties, and now that we leave this pandemic, it is absolutely crystal clear that the economy will run up. Increased valuables will be introduced into the old economy. We've already seen some workforce changes, e.g. About telecommunications, people working at home, things like that. The question is, Is a community of Icelandic people willing to cope with the changes that will take place now after the pandemic? Then the question is, Who is government policy when it comes to sceptres and innovations in technology? Would it not be worth an effort, such as all work, when it comes to sceptre companies and tax returns, thus increasing your employment freedom from wand companies and opportunities for innovation companies and new ideas? I cannot allow myself to mention that it is also an opportunity to increase the employment freedom of coastal fishermen to the country as well. These wand companies will be here primarily in the capital area, around the university. It is vital that governments engage in action, both in the procrastinators'companies and also in a special package for the country's settlements and for the scattered settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u71	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that there is much to learn from going through such a crisis, as we did in economic matters. Some of these can be brought along to change our thinking simply, e.g. what was mentioned about telecommunications. I think it's had a tremendous positive effect on society all the time that we saw the possibility. It can have positive effects on climate, traffic issues, in the capital area in particular, and just increasing production, taking advantage of opportunities in telecommunications and telecommunications, etc. But we also need to learn a lesson from having such weaknesses as those we had to face. Important infrastructures may smile when something is wrong. We saw it, for example. for the epidemic that when WOW went into the head, a lot of people were affected. We would have had to be more alert sooner because of the problem there was building up. We can also see it in travel services. I believe that it was time, since we had generally too poor a travel service to too many people before the pandemic. Hopefully, this will help us to strengthen our unity, and we can get a successful business as tourists start to repopulate. Otherwise, I'd just like to say that we've been able to demonstrate that we want to be a team of shorts and innovations and development. We've been making large contributions to the competitive fund, we've been making changes in the tax environment, both for the companies themselves, their owners, i.e. those who want to put money into such companies. Tax regulations have been reviewed, and we've been encouraging this work to be available in Iceland and we're already seeing a very large benefit in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We're about to enter energy exchange, and we've got a lot of technical changes coming on. I believe that we at the National Parliament should suggest that a research committee be set up to investigate the impact of the pandemic on Icelandic society, as well as the influence of government action. What was done well? What could be done better? What were the strengths? What were the weaknesses? Just looking into the future. This report would be set up, and it would review what was done well and what was bad and what could be done better. The Norwegians have already done this, and the British have done the same. It would be nice to hear a financial minister's opinion of it. Finally, I think it is important to look forward to the efforts of the government at Covid to pour money into society. It affects possessions; possessions increase, stocks, and so on. Then there will be the remuneration, especially those who are less fortunate. Would it not be proper to take special action now to bring justice to the poor, the elderly, and the poor? [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to point out the crown gang. What measures will the secretary of finance take in order to keep the crown's gangs in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u73	President. I'd like to talk to you about it for a second. A senator believed that such a new creation company, a starter company, might be the most likely one here in the capital area. I don't think that's necessarily true. I think it can change because of the changes we've seen in this pandemic. Even for this epidemic, we had an example of business in many parts of the country. One of the major companies in Iceland that has been growing at a rate of speed and now aims for registration into the United States market, if I understand that correctly, is from Iceland, Kercis. From there it was actually built up. I also remember being in a computer company at Egls, where they were showing me what they were doing in the real - time traffic lights in the Netherlands. You can do amazing things from all over the country. We've been working out how it's been going. For example, I have referred to Sighvatsson's last year's report, which was quite extensive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u74	Madam President. In this discussion, the highest report. Economic and economic administrators due to economic reactions to the Covid epidemics are normally present and can be discussed on many sides, both from the past, what the situation is now, and so on as to how we see society in the future. I think it all matters, and it's important to talk about it here. Today, in many places, inflation has been described quite well, normally, and by the highest degree. The minister here answered another question. In the past, a senator would need special attention to the situation of the weakest groups in the community, since such inflation takes place. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to talk about this a little bit more because I think it's a real concern, especially low-payers, who are the worst equipped to deal with this, we may have so little to rock the boat. That's why it's important that we stay at the Council and the Supreme Court. Economic and economic ministers are wondering how to secure the situation of people who may be economically vulnerable to further deterioration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u75	A respectable president. There is much to say about this, about inflation and where it bites first. I think we can agree that it's not a table where it's hard to make ends meet, which increases or higher pay on the mortgages first comes down. We have support systems, such as repairs to meet tenants, but in the end, we have the most important job of working in stability, reaching longer periods of stability. Sometimes, however, it happens, such as. we now, that we receive inflations that are partly rooted in international development. When that happens, ask yourself, " Is it as good an idea as many people have long wanted to be completely deprived of the long loans? ' Perhaps they are a major refuge just in such circumstances. Although I've given a bill here to force them to use with certain exceptions, I still feel that it is important to maintain this practice. Perhaps the circumstances that are developing are good to make people wonder if the best shelter possible for such homes could be a loan system that would eliminate the effects on the payload of such inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u76	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for this answer, thinking that this is an extremely important point he has come up with. As a community, it is important for us to learn from just what has been successful and what may have had a different effect than what we originally thought, and there I refer to a different setting on the mortgages. In any case, I think it's a very important thing to take a real look at this and celebrate the words of the highest degree. Minister. It was also seen in the highest range. A minister earlier in this discussion that he said something like this: Finally, we will be judged by the way we deal with the debt after the epidemic's impact has stopped. I think it's just right, and I think it's kind of a material thing that we're talking about, you know, the Minister's just right, or he'll fix me up. It is true that when we entered this epidemic, the situation of the nation's population matters, and we were able to increase debt. But we also lived under the need for greater funding over a longer period of time, and I think all of us must agree that this epidemic would have benefited us too. I'd like to use the last few seconds to pray. Ministers to review only how we bring this into the future together, i.e. Paying off debt, but at the same time, it is a protection for the powerful community in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I remind them of our major systems, such as our health and social systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u77	A respectable president. What may be the most important thing when we're making these long-term plans is to look at the change from year to year. To defend good public service and such large systems, one can well justify continuing to run the treasure of the Kingdom for some time. A senator is referring to, as long as we are steadily working back in balance. That can't happen too long. What we have wanted to be guided by this is the goal of not becoming overly burdensome at the end of this time, and it is my opinion that we should look to baseline values that are under government law. The fact is that the council has allowed time for a certain amount of time to set aside an even greater objective, and we are just trying to use the space that the Senate has afforded and at the same time guarantees that we will end in good places in terms of debt and not place ourselves in a position of having to take some major cuts. Major surgery too early at the wrong time can lead to further problems. However, it's been a while since we took a serious talk here at the council for advantage, to do better. I'll just say, just as it is that I think the council is much more often, probably ten times, have called for an increase in expenses every time you discuss whether it is possible to handle and make better use of money, etc., whether it might be possible to reduce the number of institutions, combine, etc. And, actually, when this government and these classes have been working on such projects in recent years, whether it is the cohesion of UNITS and the changes to the highest level. The Minister of innovation was in his time with the New Creation Center, and more cases could be picked up, the union of customs, and the tax I was working on, have generally raised skeptics from this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u78	Mr. President. I don't know exactly how to deal with it for the last answer to the Minister. He says we're going to take a serious talk about straddling, okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u79	Bring it with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u80	Wasn't that man kidding? We're coming out of the two-year pandemic of Covid, where public workers have kept society going; teachers, health professionals, a vast number of classes, often women's classes, in too low wages that work under adverse circumstances at the office of the Minister who now wants to manipulate them. This is actually what I was going to ask the minister, so we might have a bit of a meeting. We're getting closer to our collective agreements, and just as we're in the middle of a lot of housing, thanks to the greatest economy. Minister, we're going to see to it that there are free contracts for all of these unappreciated government employees as the highest level of staff. Minister wants to adjust. When it's called the highest. The labour market minister is asked about the situation, and he says that he is simply encouraging the personnel of the labour market to have a good conversation, as if the government is not a party to that conversation, not just to help out in public markets but directly to sit down at the table of agreements with public employees. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whose business the state's members of the agreement: what do the employees of the government expect in collective agreements? [[The president calls.]] The people who are called forward workers who are thanking their contribution will see their appreciation in the pay program from the highest point of view. Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u81	A respectable president. This is exactly what the physical characteristics of the views I am talking about, a man who sees no opportunity to manipulate or do better, the state must have invented the only right way to take public money once and for all, and all the skeptics about it are just to stay at home and keep his mouth shut because the state has a head and shoulders over everyone else in the treatment of money, and people should just be ashamed of themselves, those who allow themselves to talk about being able to do better somewhere, united organizations, other ways in the affairs of the state, how the office is treated by the government, some potential job that has become obsolete, making changes. No, he sets them up as opposers of public employees. How old-fashioned can men be? How prepacked can you be? It is amazing to listen to these views, and these are the voices that hear when the state's funds have collected 500 billion dollars in just a few months and are still in deep intervening. Letting people doubt that everything is exactly right and right in the state is going to get the piece of shit from men like the one we last talked about. Senator. What hope do public employees have from the State? What history does the government have in dealing with the public market? She has a story to say, despite the deepest pandemic we've gone through in the course of approximately A hundred years later, the public business was protected, no one dumped, no profit, and the exchange was taken to protect the work. Hv. In recent years, a senator may want to know if anyone in the north or elsewhere in Europe was doing much better. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u82	Mr. President. I am happy to accept the Minister's appointment to be the embodiment of what he stands against. 500 billion debts have been collected from the state's funds. This is similar to the amount that has been accumulated in the public because of the highest level of housing. A minister blew in and he's been blowing for a decade. It is not the burden of a government fund. And what does this government have to say? Let's ask the public staff who still wait for the correction of a pension certificate about five years ago when the law was accepted here, ask the midwives or nurses who only have Kjara's judgment when they have to go to a strike to get the correction of their dressers. This is the economy of the highest. A minister speaks of a personal development of a public house that he sees here as some way to make money? But that's not a money for the state. That the state will do what Keflavík did here for collapse and privatize all public housing and rent it from the friends who bought it, is that a solution? [[The president calls.]] If this is the man who controls everything, is it really possible that the housework and inflation will be in the place it is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u83	A respectable president. It's the season of your life. A senator is talking about a period in which the buy - power provision of households grew each year, also in the pandemic. Right away. A senator says there's been a debt growing in the homes, so I'm gonna pray. A senator wondered how the homes's personal financial status has changed over the same time, whether there are potential assets against debt, and whether it may be that property has grown faster than debt, so that at the end of time, their homes are better off than at the beginning. I think maybe that's the way it is. These are some basic facts that should be kept in mind if people are going to get involved in a discussion about the economic and home situation, knowing where we are coming from, and where we are today. What we've been able to do is protect the work and the level of service in the public sector and lay the basis for us to continue to enjoy a better life span in the future. There's a situation I'm pretty proud of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u84	Mr. President. During a pandemic crisis, we are reminded of the importance of collecting grain into the storehouses when it is well - known. V.E.G. Ministers have clearly considered how strong positions have been used to defend SMEs and homes in this economic lowness. Even so well, most earners have grown - especially those with the lowest wage. We can in most cases be quite optimistic as we look ahead, i.e. if we're right. This year I think that six years have passed since government law went into effect. Most of them have proved to be good, but because of circumstances we have known, we have. Consequences a debt rule and an execution rule only aside. In these circumstances, however, it is clear that public financial problems are becoming more and more apparent. We have a debt rule, we have a curfew, but we don't have a budget. Well, when it starts to blow into the sails of the state fund, I ask the highest. Minister: Can he agree with me on the need to revise the laws on public finances and the enforcing of a spending policy, put a roof on the development of the state and the public in the same manner as there is a law of debt and order?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u85	A respectable president. I am happy to have an opportunity to discuss only the official financial laws that I feel have actually provided a completely new basis for every discussion of the state's affairs and their association with local societies. We're discussing here repeatedly and on a regular, long - term, long - term schedule that has not been established in the past. The main reason we don't add a budget rule to other complex rules and are found in the government law is that we thought that this would be a possibility for us to provide too many rules to fulfill. There's nothing in itself that prevents the government from setting up its spending goals and in this spending scheme, since we're there, I'd like to call attention to one thing that I think has only bitten us in the tail. Over a period of time, over a period of 101⁄215 years, developed the spending side in such a way that the transfers took up the growing portion of the total budget. And what are we talking about here? Yes, we're talking about these big support systems, such as social security, taking a little more than and more from the charge gate, I'm not talking about the income side when it's due. Don't we have more than 10% in the social security pension, 10% of our total income? What this does is that it narrows our chances of investing. That's why I'd just like us to take up a new financial account for the state and try to figure out if we were investing in an investment. [[The president calls.]] However, investments in return are something that we need to consider in particular and to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u86	Mr. President. The reason I'm asking if it's the highest. A minister is included in the implementation of a budget policy is my concern that the government's expenses will develop in an adverse way, that we really lose control in good, as we have sometimes done. I think there's an important evidence to introduce a spending rule. She can, for example. Apart from social and health expenses, in welfare matters, there are some important issues involved. But it is quite clear to me that we cannot discuss it here in this room that public funds must be properly handled, that there is an increased demand for public money, but that we are not prepared to introduce here a system of spending in the same way that the rules of pay are made in public finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u87	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm totally at the bottom of my mind. A senator that we need to have a view of how the expenses change from time to time, and we also need to make a difference in the demographics, the calculated sizes of the nation's aging and increase the pressures on public security because of or in the health system, as well as those who are independent of decisions on increased expenses for new projects. I think we're right next door. A member of the council that we have had the tendency to see our expenses grow too fast in good health, and we have also suffered severe cuts in recession, such as a crisis. took place in 2009. There was no doubt too steep in cutbacks, especially in the investment after the financial collapse. Whether it's going to lead to a government rule, I don't know. Perhaps this includes some impossible things, as well as what I have been saying. [[The president calls.]] How can a politician tie up what he wants to spend in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u88	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a good conversation today. I'm doing this for the first time, and it's really nice to see how we're dealing here. But I have a question for the highest. I would like to know that at the General Assembly, a general agreement has been made to listen to experts. In the battle with Covid, it has been a success for us to obey our experts in the use of power control. With regard to markets, we follow Captain's advice and when a storm comes, we obey weather experts. Unfortunately, the government does not always listen to experts. One example is a case recently adopted at the General Assembly, despite comments and warnings given by experts at the Ministry of Justice. Minister. Of course, I'm talking about the campaign all the work that got 7.2 billion dollars from the state funds despite serious comments from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry. Minister. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that there is no need for extension of all the resources, trends from the base of the value tax system are intended to weaken the system and reduce income efficiency, prolongation of the part of development of housing may result in subsidence, and injection of funding into the economy that is already under way. In the case of the highest. A minister earlier noted that it was no longer necessary to stimulate the economy by means of a very specific procedure. That's why I'm asking the highest. Economic and economic Ministers: Why did he not heed the advice of his experts on this important matter? [[The president calls.]] Didn't he see the warning? Did he misunderstand them, or did he simply choose not to follow them? I'm just asking, what was it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u89	A respectable president. I have to let it begin here that we were listening to what we were doing. A member of Congress, which is just an example of the contrast between what I was discussing in the previous speech and in the contrary, sometimes comes into the council, who believe we can better use public funds and find and point out ways to do so. A senator has done so by means of a picture, and so it has been noticed. For everybody, I just have to say that, first of all, this is an example of living in the tribunals and after the council's case is established, so the Ministry of finance is not a matter of its own. We do so, not after, but to make a donation. There were indications on both the efforts of all of us, as well as on the extension of the appeals due to a link car, which the Ministry considered important to have had to do with the decision-making process at the council. I'd like to mean that when we look at the overall subject because everyone wins the campaign, as well as in the contact vehicle case, and when we look at the overall effect of this, it's within what we could call some kind of danger in being too strong. And that is not to be forgotten. The job was listening, saying: "Okay, we hear what you're saying, but that just means that we're not going to let the campaign be extended by a year, but it was extended by six months and then eight months, if I recall correctly, only the kind of operation that could be paid back. So I'd like to say there was a good way to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u90	I thank the Minister for his answers, but I don't think they're sufficient. I think you're the best. Minister, have provided this bill yourself so that you are now quite responsible. I'd like to point out that today a lot of talk is a loss of weight and that's what causes inflation. Half the inflation is due to an increase in apartment prices. Since then, it has been noted in the discussion that this has also been the case with a large amount of loans. I'd like to point out that with a simple calculation, 7.2 billion reimbursement of the value tax is due to the maintenance of over 35 billion industrial workers. This amounts to an almost 2,500 - year occupation of industrial workers, which today is merely a maintenance work, not a new building. In fact, the State government is moving workers from new structures into maintenance. It's a government deal that I think is absolutely unnecessary. It's a waste of money, and I'm the highest. A minister to suggest that this effort be corrected and discontinued.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u91	The president reminds the speakers to direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u92	A respectable president. In this context, the bill we discussed was the financial bill and its linking of income contacts, and it was the council that made the decision to change the outcome of all work extensions, i.e. by extending, but I had not anticipated it in the projections as I had submitted them to the council. You're right next door. Senator, I'm looking at the same way that there's been a breach on the forward gate. I'd like to mention one thing in that context. I think this temporary extension of six months and eight months is not about to cause any breakthrough in this. This year we're breaking up with 100% reimbursement. But I'd like to mention something else here, which is that the state has been changing its housing support, especially from growth to more specific resources, on the other hand, the mortgage and the share loans. [[The president calls.]] It's interesting to me that as the state plays a direct role in the construction of more apartments, we have not been able to increase the number of apartments in the building. [[The president calls.]] That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u93	A respectable president. I want to say this at the end of the discussion that I welcome every opportunity to discuss the economic situation at these delicate times. We're about to finish here, hopefully, a period that will be remembered for a long time. There are so many things about this time that it is unusual and some of the things that this is not even possible to write so that it could be credible in a schoolbook example, that there could be something that would just wipe out a lot of work in the general labour market and that we could see how it would affect the public financial situation if 20,000 jobs were lost on this side of the labour system or just no job was losing on the other side, how it would affect the income and the future of the households and on the financial development of the state fund, how it would affect the rural society, etc. In this respect, if you allow yourself only to float above the situation and watch these presumptuous fears, the changes that have happened, this is quite an exciting period, and in fact, you're best saying happy today in some kind of a compromise, let's say, in this discussion. I expected people to see it in a different way. I have to say, though, that we are so well-shaven, even though here differing views on whether we should have made some things different and whether we could be in even better places. In this context, that's good, for example. that the condensation bank never eventually went into an extensive intervention. It was not a matter of supporting the state's funds in publishing and drying them out on the market. It's a completely gross variation when we like it, for example. compares us with what has happened in the euro, where the European bank has been buying up to 80% of all Member States editions, and it will work out all the problems. [[The president calls.]] This problem we don't have. Other than that, I thank you. Now I wanted to talk for about an hour, but there's no room for it, and I just want to thank you for the pleasant subject discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u94	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law on proprietary power law. 160/2020. On the basis of that law, the operators have been able to apply for the strength of resistance to the tax if they have suffered a loss of income due to a pandemic crown virus and the government's efforts to protect them from spreading it. The bill suggests the extension of the privatization process by four months, from December 2021 to March 2022. It is suggested that the measures taken remain essentially unchanged from the past. So it is suggested that the sums of the funding and calculations remain unchanged and that all construction projects be the same. The changes proposed by the time since the introduction of the decision were first made but are basically as follows: First, that you have started your job no later than December 1st, 2021, but in the current law the reference is on October 1, 2020. The change will enable operators who started activities between October 1, 2020, and December 1, 2021, to make practical use of the resource. - I think it's fair. Secondly, the applicant must be in charge of public fees, taxes, and tax fines due to one day prior to August 1, 2021. It is the same reference date as in the newly released law, No. 2/2022, on the authority of the caterer to postpone the status of public pay, on the insurance bill and on the current bill for treatment at the council, and on the other hand, on the grant to the managers of restaurants that have settled during opening hours and on the continuation of final grants. All these events were consistent with this timeline. However, on the basis of the current penalty laws, according to the end of 2019 C.E. Third, if the valve is merged, change or change in the management practices of the operator, it is intended to keep the person involved in the application procedure to remain in charge. Fourth, in the restaurant business, companies who have had to put limits on opening hours will be reduced to the same month's maintenance grants. It is assumed that the caterers who have had to put limits on opening hours will apply for grants in accordance with specific measures to meet their problems, as there are funding in terms of higher concentrations than the level of resistance. However, the order of withdrawal is suggested because it is not intended that the same people can use both options for the same months. Fifth, the maximum cost of maintenance will be increased from 260 million. K. of 330 billion. K. This rise is rooted in a temporary framework of the European Union's support of the economy for the current Covid-19 pandemic from March 19, 2020. This peak is not only for individual species of trust or individual operators but, as previously, must be put together as concentrations of closure from mid-Septary 2020, aggressor, maintenance strength, and tourism and is suggested to strengthen the operators of restaurants that have been restricted during the opening period due to a Coron viral epidemic also fall below. All of the above resources fall into the same category of government support frames and therefore under the same criteria for maximum value. It also holds the same peak for the business partners, i.e. They share one maximum amount of money, regardless of how many people associated with each other are involved. The definition of an enterprise in the above sense refers to property and management connections and is therefore linked to one enterprise at the maximum. Finally, it is suggested that we be allowed to apply for the visibility to June 30th of this year. It is estimated that the cost of extension of the Sports Development product for about four months may be up to 2 billion. approximately 500 million a month. However, by December it is likely that funding will be reduced, although during the month, there was a strong impact despite increased transmission of infectious and hardened control restrictions. In addition, it may be estimated that by February or March, further efforts on the cross-cutting protocols may increase the demand and decrease the loss of enterprise income. Thus, the total cost of a government fund of extension could be somewhat smaller. These expenditures are not expected to be in the budget of the current year, so the contribution of the State Fund remains unchanged, on the basis of budgets, will get worse at this level. However, the budget of the past year was not completely new, and it is considered as a means of allowing transport of illegal budgets from last year to meet these costs. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u95	A respectable president. It has now been shown, during the conniving treatment of a bill on supply to restaurants, that funding applications will not be provided and that they will not be strengthened until some weeks, possibly months. Here we are discussing a general bill, the general employment grant. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget and economy whether the Minister can guarantee the quick and reliableness of the enterprises that really need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u96	A respectable president. Yes, this is, of course, very important. A senator here mentioned that we not only bring words into our discussion but also that we must engage in activities. That means we'll bring in a bill and make sure it gets started here at the council. But not just making the law, but that the law then goes into carrying out what is required by the law. I would like to say, though, that there is a system that has gone well, and the tax has been doing similar tasks. It's just different with the food supply, and there's no doubt there's a need to do some programming work, and workers have had to distinguish between general sensitivity and the new resources that can sometimes delay recovery. But the whole purpose of all of this is for companies to be able to apply, the resources are built up to allow you to apply for the month. I hope that in action we can work up this old tail right away so that when the months that are now delivered will run their course, they will be relatively soon after applying them. I would suggest that in this matter's committee work will be carried out on clear answers. But I have hoped that when we are extending older resources, things should go more quickly. I have to say, at the moment of the moment, I felt that we had a pretty good deal with an anointed machine, an excellent one in these matters, when this strategy ran its course toward the end of the month of November. However, it has to be admitted that there was a lot of applications when you realized that the process was running out. That is why there was some waiting for all applications to be replaced by November.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u97	Mr. President. Thank you for your clear answers. The report of this bill, just as it was in a food supply bill, emphasises that production factors between enterprises and between sectores are not to be prevented. We see that no one has been willing to extend e.g. I cannot see that the government has been hurrying to provide financial support to the most serious enterprises. In view of this, I'd like to ask: Is it government policy and it's going to be the highest policy? Budget Ministers to help make companies and to work small in such projects as tourism and entertainment, and that production factors are directly involved? Tells you the highest. Economic Ministers prefer to reduce companies, and there will be some integration in the areas that are going to be the most expensive of their budgets for Covid?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u98	A respectable president. It is certainly not our policy to reduce the number of jobs in these articles. However, we want to build the resources so that we give everyone a reasonable opportunity and that they stand equal in a comparable position, in access to resources. But I've mentioned it here today, in another discussion that just got over, that we need to face the fact that we can't solve all of everybody's problems. There were companies, e.g. in travel services and I don't talk about in the food business, which may not have been particularly strong before the pandemic. Even if it's a long time ago, and someone could say it must be so that all the companies who are still alive were doing quite well at that point, I think this is a fact. It cannot be our aim, in my mind, to provide support to an enterprise with an underlying problem that has nothing to do with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u99	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his history and answers to questions. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, it is extremely important to speed up this section because many are on their knees, even at death's door, in their operation after this incredible two - year - long period of lock - ups for months, opening up for weeks and again shutting down and all the problems of such. Now I ask, like I did here a week ago when those cases came up, if it wasn't a way of putting the best man on the top. A minister in making a special quick payment, preparation, so this does not have to take a standard government payment period that we all know is usually less rapid than in the private sector. On the one hand, we face this and the other: Global market prices are imminent and have already been shattered. I'm asking if the highest. The secretary of finance sees that it can be handled by means of the Secret Bank to keep our poverty steady, whether we can agree on it - whether it is legal or not, it needs to be examined - by the Secret Bank to contribute to the success of the Icelandic crown as possible at these critical times and thus to increase the viability of the companies that are infested with the feet and, of course, of course, the people in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u100	President. I reiterate what I've said before that I think it's a very delicate matter and it's very important that we get these tools into action as soon as possible. I didn't discuss it in the past with this story, but I've mentioned it, when I've been introducing other options we just filmed, e.g. The levels of the restaurant, or the closing volume, that we have spent the last few months, each of our older talks, we would have to extend and what might be ours. We're here to discuss the general client strength that I didn't see to it that we wanted to extend when I recommended the budget bill. But things have changed in the meantime. This ultrasound variant began its invasion, and the disease - control doctor recommended largely the limitations adopted by the health minister or brought into the regulations. Even though we are once again involved in relieving these limits, many have been deeply affected. That's why I think it's important that these measures have come back, and we're going to revise them for four months. I have to agree with someone who says it's important to get this into the good work as soon as possible. It also gives me hope that a fine deal of peace can succeed here at the council to end the matter fairly quickly. On the other hand, the progress goes far beyond the Skatti, and I can be with my best human beings in following it after they are sure to work. In the end, however, the magnitude of the situation, the number of people who will have to go to the resort, and the amount of stress thus to be put on the Tatte. A few words on gang integrity: I'd like to start by saying that we have an arrangement for plagiarism, which goes beyond the fact that we have an open and free currency market. What's a pleasure at the moment is that it seems that the national company is producing a lot of currency that we're in a good balance with the gangs. If we look at the balance of business for the past year, I have to say that it may have exceeded your expectations over a period of time, how it all played out. We have not only been able to see a certain growth in the arrival of tourists but also have many exports, some of which have proved to be extremely important. What we are doing in this discussion is a very powerful furturbing business that will create extensive exports. There is no special evidence that there is some imbalance and the best way to ensure that we can still afford the quality of life that we have grown up, that we can continue to pick up all the things we need for other countries in the currency trade, is to continue building on export roads, and to ensure that this will remain a value in our professional life to live up to this quality of life. This is especially true if we have some problems with what we should be concerned about. If anything like this happens, like it happened, e.g. In the financial collapse, the lack of support for the economy, the increase of currency, the economic value, can be strongly determined as to what should happen next. To what extent, then, do we want to try to maintain, on weak ground, on foot, and at most face the need to adjust to new realities? I think with independent money policy with our own currency, we have the opportunity to adapt more rapidly to the changed reality than many other nations, especially those that participate in a currency alliance. Thus, over a longer period of time, we can better ensure the basis for the quality of life and more reasonable distribution of the effects of such events. I'd like to say in this context, since the gangs are being discussed, that I don't think there's any particular reason to worry about the gang. There's a lot of power in the economy, and there's no need to be a big deal involved, as the World Bank has the official policy not to interfere with crime or currency unless there's some short-term balance. In this respect, I think we're in a good place. It seems to me that there is a balance pattern somewhere in these areas that we can see and that if we were to get very stronger, this would make these branches more difficult to get. That wouldn't be a good thing. To this, I think it's completely lost on my part. Thank you for a great talk here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this passage. I just wanted to step back on the economic process. A financial and business committee has now been identified that there will be significant delays at the Tattoo, including due to legal activities now in February that depend on data and preparation for the pressures of public pay. But also, the Agency has a lot of resources to handle, including, other options. All work on the strategy adopted in December to be extended but the Ministry of Ministers. A minister had strongly warned that this would be done. The Ministry's memo pointed out that this could require more work at the tax system and delay other activities of the tax. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he is aware that the payment of such applications, the work it calls for, is even delaying that companies struggling are being given the necessary help due to both the virus and the resources laid here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u102	A respectable president. I have no reason to believe that it will be so that this will delay a great deal but obviously, as the pressures are more intense, the more the human race is about to run out of all the resources. I'm just saying back to the fact that you can ask more questions about this on the committee and still have expectations that this may come about very soon after the Senate release.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u103	Mr. President. It is now stated in the Annual Review Report on the 2020 GDP that the state deals with the accumulated technical debt and that the information systems of its institutions are up to its years, that they are being run in an old technical environment, written in some prehuman developer. And I just want to ask the highest. Minister: is the highest. Ministers are convinced that the tax is strong enough, with regard to software, numbers of status values and resources, to respond quickly when such situations arise, if it is something that needs to be considered after two years of a pandemic, whether the Agency's ability to react is strong enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u104	A respectable president. Yes, I might first say that the tax has been a model for many other public institutions on technical technologies. But the world is changing rapidly, and there is no doubt that we must begin to add to our technical investment. I've had a meeting with the head of state taxation on these subjects and I've met a lawyer who has shown that further investments in technical solutions could lead to greater success and benefit for us, a large increase in efficiency and effectiveness, e.g. In an IRS department, and that's why we've been very supportive. In general, I think the state will invest very much in technical solutions, it's just a question where you want to kill your feet. Let me, for example. Note that the number of people on the list for the Land Hospital after a single operation cannot be checked, there is no such waiting list anywhere. I believe we should use data to make better decisions and invest in technology that will bring us more success and may at the end of the day, better public service. But this wasn't all they asked about. It was just about the IRS. The tax has been exemplary, but I think there's still a bit of investment to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-07-34.u105	A respectable president. We are here for the discussion of a bill to correct the change in boxing laws, continuation of boxing. It is a very important matter and one of these issues that support the sector's activities that have been affected in the last two years by this epidemic that has been here in society and, indeed, around the world. The case is set, like the highest. The minister of finance went over here because of this new variant, ultrasound, which has only changed the situation. During the last few weeks and months, the minister of finance was well aware of how these cases have developed. The very point is to make sure that companies who are affected by a major loss of income due to the increase in infectious, meeting restrictions and measures under which they have undergone can maintain the necessary services, minimal functions. and Be ready when life begins to run its normal course, so to speak, after the epidemic. Fortunately, at the end of the tunnel, we are seeing light. But this is one of the issues to make sure that this company can resume normal activities at that time, one of the good measures taken. I mentioned only action in a talk in a previous language, but there is a pay check on the districts, support for the caterers who have had to put up with the restrictions, tax pay has been postponed. And then we have for the treatment of the economic and business committee for the continuation of lock-ups. Although I might want to connect all these matters and mix them up, a respectable president, a very interesting point was made in the case of a continuation of a closed-structor. Perhaps these are one of the most complex companies that have had to lock up completely, have shut down their operations, have not been able to do their normal business, sell their product, or service, have had to close all the doors. These are firms that I've been really worried about and often and times are the least of them. I think I'm right when I say, in the vast majority of cases, it's small pubs, sports bars, or pubs, as we know them, places that show out on weekends, and even machines that feel the most. It was found that these are about 50 parties or companies. For those who have come to me, and I know that more people have heard of it, there are certain concerns about the standards of these bills, i.e. that the strength or support should be paid at position value. And when we talk about the lock-up bill, it's, as I say, the smallest players in their business management, had to cut off all fat and have even entered bone and, unfortunately, had to be adjusted for staff. As soon as I say this, I fully understand that all government operations have been in the way of supporting the workforce, supporting the development of companies trying to keep their employees working. It's my opinion with a group that's in many other ways a small family business, and I've wondered about it, both in the past and in the committee, whether it would be better to make a fixed budget, no matter what it's done. And we're just discussing it. Maybe it's impossible, but I think we're under obligation to find out if it's possible to grab these little parties, even though most people realize that they can never catch everyone. Again, however, the matter of continuation of the protester who is now going to the Committee. I think it's a very good case, and I think it's support for other measures the government has taken.
