ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u1	The President has received a letter from the health secretary requesting every time to give a written application to ask for it. 402, for the health - care surveillance of a surgeon from Helga Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u2	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament that Sveinbjarnardóttir, his daughter, will not be able to perform any council work in the near future. So as reported on the General Assembly, at the World Council on Friday, February 18th, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson took up residence. Guðmundur Andri Thorsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. There has been a letter received from the chairman of the group of Stockholm's people that Jakob Frímann Magnússon will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So today, on Monday, February 22, Katrín Sif Árnnaddir, a deputy of the district's list, seats at the General Assembly as his backup. Katrín Sif letter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not taken place in the Council before and must sign its commitment to the Constitution, but the signing of the vow is postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u3	A respectable president. Today, I will suggest a review of the income basis for the elementary school system. The foundation of rural society has deteriorated over the last few decades. The results have been negative since 2007. The Icelandic community reported yesterday that rural society will be fired at 6.4 billion dollars. ... tothisyear. Clearly, rural income is not enough to finance legal services, including basic school education. Then it's time to revise the rules on how to make an equation development for basic school classes. Since the establishment of an equation fund, there has been some extraterrestrial space because of its size, and it does not have an equation of the management of elementary school or futures due to students in English as another language. There are no more students of the New World Translation as a foreign language than there are in Reykjavík. The demographic composition, income, and expenses or other relevant viewpoints cannot alter whether Reykjavík is entitled to give a witness solely on the reason that the inhabitants of Reykjavík are over 70,000. To ensure equality, laws and rules must be revised so that all societies can have the right to equalize themselves. It is then time to revise the funding of the basic school system, since basic school management has made a big difference since the business has moved to the countryside in 1996. Since a large number of students have been reduced for each grade in elementary school, it is important to rejoice at the end that each child is given appropriate support. Money needs to be followed, and this requires a review of the income base of the basic school system in relation to the development that has taken place in recent decades and guarantees that all rural areas will be able to provide good education for children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u4	A respectable president. As most of us know, provisions for the shortening of the work week have been placed in most agreements. The shorthand then depends on the agreement between employees and professional drivers, which is a delay in the overall workforce of the employee's workforce. The purpose of the short - term work week is to make the workplace more familyized, to make the worktime more productive, and to improve the workforce. These are all desirable goals and guides to the future. Most agreements include abbreviation of work time requirements to be followed by employers, e.g. in public institutions. The decision to shorten the work week was made to conclude that the shortening would have no effect on the service stage and would not result in an increase in financial expenditure. Clearly, the law does not work in many places. This is particularly difficult at work where the job is working, so the employee must be present at specific times, e.g. in schools or clinics. In some cases, the directive will inevitably lead to an increase in the cost or degree of service, but in others, it is easier for managers to enforce this. If we do so, we may not see all the good that a workweek can bring. Directors may be forced to arrange for an increase in costs that can once again lead to an impact on the Agency's service level. In the future, it is important that we face the situation. All of us are reaching out for family-friendly hours, and our goal is desirable. But everyone, staff, businesses, societies and the state need to be covered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity here to mention a proposal to be a member of Congress that I hope will be able to contribute these few days I'm sitting here at this time. It's one of the little things that's so big. It's all about power and words. It is about assigning Ministers to appoint a committee that makes proposals for the changed task force. Even if we do not often think out in their sense in our daily life, words, or dignified presidents, are important. You see, words are human works and have meaning, reflect community, and ideas. I'd like to join this time on the behalf of the minister. In 1904, when women were not even voters and it seemed completely impossible for women to become ministers, the word came out of the way. The word "ma'am" is certainly fine, a man's honorary title, which, at times, suggests higher place. But the word is extremely foolish when it is used in a job title that does not refer only to men for the most part. No one told Mr. Vigdís. Nobody tells Mr. Bishop, now that a woman has that job. Iceland stands out for this job name; it's Osciretary, U.S. attorney, U.S. legislator, U.S.A., S.A., L.A., L.A., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T., T. These are examples of similar names in other lands. This job title, President ה, is an out - of - date cultural heritage from the time men were the only visible sex in public fields. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u6	A respectable president. Last week much news was received for the move in the country regarding the arrival of the airline Niceair and its plans for regular flights between Akureyri and Europe. The marketing room in Northern and Eastern countries has long worked together for the marketing of the one-half of the country they work for. This report provides a completely new basis for further cooperation and the development of tourism in the North and East. While the international flight is the basis for new instruments, the international flight is a basic service and a role in public transport. The air bridge that was launched in September 2020 is just a recognition and confirmation of it. Its purpose is to improve the bioavailability of the population into central service and to promote their habitats. The bridge provides 40% off the total price of flights within the country for people who live far away from the capital area. It is for people living in Western, North, Eastern, East, Hornfjordur, and West, but more than 60,000 people can use air bridges each year, and each individual can obtain up to six flights a year. The atmosphere has been very well absorbed, and nearly 70,000 flight lines have been booked in the first 18 months. The project, however, must continue to develop with the community and technology. It is happy that since February 7, the air bridge was extended, and now it is guaranteed that children who have parents living in an area where it belongs but whose home is outside can use it on flights to and from the capital area to parents. Airbrows need to be developed, as previously said in cooperation with the airlines. Airlines webs have to work on. The technology can be used to meet the challenges there. [[The president calls.]] Computers never say no if the people that program it doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u7	A respectable president. Tomorrow there will be a special discussion of an expensive success, a prohibition on blood circulation. This special discussion will be between me and the highest. Food minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and, hopefully, all of you dear members of the council. This is a very important matter. In a few cases, a number of reports have been received to regular committees. The job board received some 137 reviews. It was well received in the third hundred envelopes to the EEA, which were renewing and tripled the license of Isaka to their work. So I urge everyone to follow the discussion tomorrow. If we look at the situation in general, we are not just talking about the welfare of animals - we may not be able to say that when we're talking about the welfare of animals, we can't say it that way. But here we are rejoicing that our tourism industry will flourish after the difficulties we have gone through because of the Covid World War I, and this must also be a question, when we look at the whole thing, about the image we have in foreign lands, almost like a third world state in the treatment of animals, as shown in the picture of the world's fire. The Swiss were recently banning the import of the PMSG hormone derived from the blood of a full-scale mera, and this case has been for the dance council. Increasing voices are heard throughout the whole of Europe, that I speak not concerning the Council of Europe. I urge you to follow this discussion tomorrow because I will have more than two minutes to let my light shine in this regard and will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u8	President. Just over a year ago, I was here in this chair introducing to the Committee on General Education and Education. As the author of the opinion of this enormously important case, the Pirantars have been concerned over the years, a language that we eagerly rejoiced at. The Justice Minister of that time would have submitted, i.e. To forbid digital sexual abuse, and to enact it into our penalties. This was an enormously important step, a step that was taken by a great battle of grass, by Free the Nipple, by #metoo, after a great call in the community for sexual privacy to be protected, also in the digital world. I was so proud to have been able to recommend to the joint members of the Committee on the General and Education Committee to deal with the unfavourable, most certainly digital sexual abuse. In the process of this case, there was also an uplifting of the privacy of the general penal law, and it was decided that to further protect the privacy of the citizens of this country, these regulations should be violated even against public charges that they had not done before. All of this was designed to protect people's sexual immunity because of a serious appeal in the community. I saw what's going on now; the possibility that these regulations are 228. gr. and 9th par. general penalties would be misused to influence free media in Iceland. I counted, and saw it in our committees of the General and Education Committee, we've taken care of it by separating the press of this law. Now the Akureyri police have decided to ignore the clearly defined will of the Lawgiver. It breaks my heart and damages the pride I felt when I was standing here measuring this committee party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u9	Mr. President. More than one year in the autumn plains are being added to problems and concerns about developments in Ukraine. Now that the Russians have violated international law, it is vital that we be clear that it will not be late. Most Western leaders have condemned this and, however, have been greatly condemned. The minister of state has certainly said that we will follow the economic activities of our neighboring nations. The prime minister was absolutely clear about the matter. We simply have to expect a greater overlap in that prayer. The peace of the East will affect all of our world, and it will affect the security and defences of our elves. He'll also have an impact on the politics in this country. It is likely that consumer products will increase, and oil prices will increase, fueling inflation, which affects economic issues here and is particularly serious, since the government is on the basic stand for disagreements on how to deal with the present situation. The event will also call for increased combat forces here and there on the world, and it will certainly be requested for residence, permanent even in Iceland. Then they can only imagine whether he was in the coal at the government home. Of course, our main concern is that we do everything we can to prevent more conflict. It is vital that our allies and we be much clearer to Russia when it comes to the role of fellow humans. This is as true in Iceland as I call for a clearer position on the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u10	Mr. President. The Russian army has invaded Ukraine. This is happening in Europe near us. I met a young woman, a young mother last night who said she was scared. The media talk about the possibility of an impending world war, and they don't hear anything coming from the leader of the government. Why is the government not talking to the nation? Why is the council not discussing the matter? Why does the chairman of the foreign committee bring down a fixed meeting at such times? The last meeting of the State Department was February 2. What causes this screaming lack of interest? If war threat and strife around us do not call for the response of the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, what is this committee for? In fact, the minority has ensured that the matter will be discussed at the meeting of the Committee tomorrow. What has been the reaction of the government so far that we may be on the verge of world war? The president of Iceland has added to Iceland's partnership with the Member States of NATO as well as with foreign minister, in English community, which may be possible. More like an international bridge, but still. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Like the head of a foreign business committee, her party brother has been waiting for him to respond. There was no word from the prime minister until last night when the media chased her and asked for a response, and they were likely a diplomatic solution. Mr. President. I give a description of the response of the prime minister and the chairman of the foreign matter committee to this position. I support the reactions that have been reported to the President of Iceland and to the secretary of state. But I'm wondering, "Styv." Is that how the prime minister responded?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u11	President. The development of events in eastern Ukraine and Russia's career is a serious matter. Just as one of the superpowers would unexpectedly declare the independence of the West and then send troops to Hólmavík, we are seeing a dangerous and illegal national example. With Icelanders, a pawn in the power of world powers, all of us under international solidarity, we need to be pressured against such aggression. If we are not on our side, why should they be on our side? Since keeping peace is a priority for everyone, it should be a priority to get warring parties to the bargaining table before any personal battle or to put the Icelanders to the full weight of it. If this is not to be taken, however, and our alliances are to become part of the commercial pressure they have proclaimed against the Russians, we should try to ensure that the measures are directed against the highest laws of Russian society rather than against common citizens in Russia who have nothing to do with them. Similarly, we Icelanders need to ask themselves big questions in the next few days, in case of trouble, e.g. whether we will volunteer to receive Ukrainian refugees who may need to take refuge here. I'm expecting the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs informs the Parliament of the situation at the first possible opportunity, especially on the response of the Icelandic government and the possibility of participating in a joint action with an alliance. At the same time, they could have offered a meeting for what? A foreign relations committee discussing this transformation in the field of the council. Although I do not doubt that a treaty exists with the Ukraine at the greater part of the United States Congress, according to the Supreme Declaration. Minister of the past few days, the political record has shown that the sole support of a minister for military action is not likely to be popular.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to begin my journey here in a speech program on the sharpening of the project operation without a location. A summary of the Agency's last August shows that 64% of the population lives here in the capital area, with a ratio of 71% of state status. However, the country's population is 36% and 29%, respectively. This distinction must be corrected. According to a new report on the number, size, and size of the institutions, the year was 2021 22,000 people in some 17,000 national standards. It is reserved for staff recruitment and partial partners owned by the state. A survey directly developed in the capital area since March 2020 showed that it is possible to advertise 890 jobs without location. Thus, there is a room for ease. However, advertisements in the Workorgi work without a location are still too few, and it is not always obvious in the advertisement that a job without a location is being performed. This needs to be changed and better if sufficient, especially if changing the situation by the national equality in the availability of public employment in the foreground. It is necessary for financial support to follow a good mind. Then I refer to the lack of funds to pay for a job position and to block institutions in order to transport projects to the country. It's important to correct this. Experience shows that the location of public jobs and institutions is not merely a rural procedure but a good provision of capital. Personnel are small and well-created in the expertise and expertise of employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u13	A respectable president. It's surrealian, at the same time as the highest. The Minister of Justice comes into the council with a bill to deal with the charges of pay-offs, his assistant is banging a reporter on a radio show and asking him for information that might refer to sources, and not just any data, but data related to one of the biggest bribes in Iceland's history that has been studied in several countries. This is so special that I have to make a decision: As long as the Minister of Justice is trying to advance a response against bribes, his assistant is officially knocking at a journalist and demanding that he break the media law by informing on evidence that could refer to authorities involved in a huge bribe case. The context is simple. A big firm is suspected of a serious offense. It was the media that enlightened the breach. The company responds by attacking journalists. The media reveal who is behind the attacks. People who automatically take a stand against the media in this scenario but keep their silence over the progress of the company or even defend it on glass sharks. But while Baldur and Konni are widely available, I hope that the assistant is not echoing some attitude of the minister that media informs their data and sources who are protected by the law. However, that this voice comes from the Ministry of Justice and Justice in the country is not reassuring. That this voice is heard when the interests of a factory call out for something that is not pleasant. This view exposes why we are concerned about the status of journalists who expose corruption. Such a lack of understanding based on a tree's view of freedom of the media is dangerous. It is not just some eccentric journalist or bitch in a position of government to insist on such things. Two government ministers have taken their stand and have said that they are shocked and have taken a heavy step by claiming that journalists have the legal position of the defendant. The U.S. Army case is one of the reasons Iceland has fallen to 16th of the world's press freedom. That's a bit more serious than getting repeatedly to 16th in Euroviation. Most serious of all, though, that this simple fact is not understood by a certain percentage of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u14	A respectable president. 145 days, five months. It is time that a young woman was raped in a very violent way after being drugged. 145 days since she was in the crisis of an emergency hospital because of sexual abuse. 145 days ago she was told that she had one of the most serious injuries following such a fracture that was seen in the emergency room. She did not trust to report the same day, but she had an appointment to report three days after the fracture. Now, 145 days later, the company has not been called to report, the public has not even been informed of the charges, and the doer has not received the legal status of the defendant. The reason the police give is a lack of time and that since the fracture was reported three days after it was committed, it is divided as an old offense and is not given priority. This is the reality of sexual abuses. A beautiful promise to make things better does not change much. It is the responsibility of our senators to ensure that the funds and support needed to prevent this reality are shown in action. 145 days of uncertainty, 145 days of injustice, and 145 days of fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u15	A respectable president. There was an unexpected window in the city's administrative system just recently, when a letter sent to the city's winter service employees was received in a general discussion. By permission of the president, winter service workers had grown to the full with the conditions they described, allowing the city's attitude to be influenced by a circular process, a lack of knowledge and understanding of the task, and a lack of respect for its people. At the end of his letter, there was a complaint about discrimination, presumptuousness, and mobbing, which were deeply entrenched in Reykjavík; and letter writers wanted them to be out of high school. This is a shocking description of those who are working hard to ensure that their capital city will reach its destination, its streets, and its paths will be mutilated in a vital way, and its high - level defenses will be handled. This is not just about the city's inhabitants and its return residents getting on their way in the traditional daily business. Rather, it is a vital safety issue. Ambulances, fire trucks, police, and others need to make their way. When news was told that people in the city had been forgotten, but they had been locked up for days because of a change in their lives, I was especially surprised. A respectable president. What causes it? Is this the wrong way for most of the city to remind us of its hatred of the family car? Is the majority ready to go to such lengths as the weight of bicycles and walkings; however, it is clear to all that so - called active journeys, e.g. " Walking and biking, " must this city's war of the family car be temporarily tolerated? Reykjavíkurburg's policy against nail beds then becomes one big joke during the last days' response. These attacks on the transport system must be stopped. It may not be surprising that Reykjavík's entire winter service is not viewed as being respected by overseers, but when the people most needed to be served are about to suffer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to dedicate this first talk to the country, to the emphasis it is urgent to work on, and to the importance of the country having its voice, a strong voice. During the ensuing elections, the focus of the country's population was made clear. Strong transportation and access to good health care National health services need to be greatly improved. It is possible in a very practical way by means of telecommunication, by increasing funding for necessary instruments, and by increasing the presence of experts in the home. This needs to be done. In Reykjavík, special health care is located. Therefore, acute diagnostic action in the region must be followed quickly by illness, and it must be called for a medical flight. Then we'll take the wait for the first flight and the south flight time. So I'm extremely worried about the airport. The decision that he will not be touched is the life and health of our people, and I would like to encourage members of the Parliament to work to ensure that he will remain in the depths, based on public interest laws. The cost of transport is high but the desire of a greater proportion of the population and rural management staff in the country is to reach the funding by means of a more mixed route, which would include the population paying half of its projects by means of roads and half the state. With this methodology it is not forgotten that there will be a faster development in the development of powerful transport improvements across the country. The landscape is a gift of immense value, and it attracts people and businesses to settle there. Therefore, let us secure safe transport between regional cores, home-based quality health services, jobs without location, continuing climate development, and the necessary structure to the rhythm of the local valuables. These are the areas that burn in the country, and they all had to be allowed to fit in my first talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to stop and discuss the connection between the criticism of independent journalism and democracy. So I witness in Nelson Mandela, by permission of President, are free media one of the cornerstones of democracy. Encouraging professional journalistism in the public service is a sign of weaker democracy. V.E.G. Last night, the prime minister crossed the strong legal foundation she has come through the council to strengthen the position of the media to form a proposal for a review of the 2019 information law and a proposal for the protection of the informants approved in 2020. I mention this here because this legal basis is an enormously important prerogative of the fact that in this country, journalists and other media are able to practice their jobs without fear of consequences, thus providing a flow of information on issues relating to society all; information that can be mismanageable to powerful individuals and companies when the truth reveals something different. But law is a matter of interpretation. We can see this when four journalists are called to interrogate the police with a suspect's legal position. This is being done in a court of law on sexual immunity, which should make it clear to me that this is not the case. Such casual interpretations of stockmates need to be avoided as a result of their insecurity and threats to the media class, the fourth power. This incident is why the Young Socialists, Young Left Green, Rebellion, Juvenile Development, Young Astrologers, and Young Piratars hosted protests on missions to the media last Saturday. During the following days, these juvenile movements, as well as the juvenile movement of the advance party, will come together and make a joint declaration. It's a good example, and I want to use the stage to propose to the U.S. Congress that we would form a armored city that laws are interpreted by democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u18	A respectable president. This may not be directly related to the President's conference board, but there were talks presented earlier in the council that spoke of the terrible situation in Ukraine today. I am delighted to hear the position that seems to be ruling with members of the Icelandic Parliament, solidarity with the decisions and declarations at the highest level. A minister of foreign affairs has given, solidarity with our friends in Western lands, and the decision that we will, of course, be behind our friends and neighbors. It was also discussed that there was a shortage of meetings in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I understand that there will be a meeting in the morning as well as the second part at the highest level. Secretary of state is coming to the country, and I think it's very good. Tomorrow, I'm on my way to Vienna, where I'm going to participate in the winter meetings of the ÖSE Council, and it's quite clear that my presentation will be in the same spirit as the Icelandic government and our Western friends. I encourage other senators to take advantage of the opportunity to speak for human rights and to speak for human rights at all times, since there are no doubt few countries in the world who have as much as just the small Iceland, an armyless nation in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u19	A respectable president. We're here to interview a bill at Council Hall 589, which is 349. It's a matter of changing the law on the control of fishing. The following is my discussion of the subject. This bill has to do with the fishing control of sandmocks and invertebrates. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the protection and practicality of the institutions discussed here and to ensure and ensure reliable employment and inhabited by the country in the same way as the use of other crops. The objective of this bill is to establish a better control of vertebral and sandy fish, in line with advice from the Institute of Marine Research, and to promote greater efficiency in this fishing. First, the bill is suggested to appoint Member States to fish the crops in a local way. Since the local labour market management of these crops is not expected by the current legislation, the bill suggests that a minister will be authorized to assign a financial share so that a special requisite section will be introduced to each of the markets, as these institutions are in poor range and take the fortification of the Marine Research Centre into account. Second, it is suggested that sea oedema, a species of invertebrate. By directing fishing targets, sustainable innovation of the strains is better ensured because of the scientific basis for distribution. An increasing catch has been made in the fishing process, which can lead to a race following completion of a maximum supply in accordance with advice from the Agency. Then there is a doubt as to whether a minister is above his right to assign a catch - fishing market and improve that loyalty. It is thus suggested that in the case of fishing management laws there are provisional additions to which it is recommended that, at the beginning of the fishing year 2022/2023, an independent catch section should be placed in the seawater section in each fishing area defined in the prevention of sea oedema. In addition, the use of sandy charcoal stocks is suggested to be more specific than today, as well, the fishing of sandmelons is free from the Snæfells of the North and that the Eysthorn is subject to an abundance of control outside the area. The proposal is in line with counseling of the Marine Research Agency, which has suggested that all sand dunes be kept under the market. It is thus suggested that there be provisional regulations in the management of fish fish fish that recommend the sharing of sandy charcoal in the whole of the weekend. During the past few years, sandwashing has been a significant increase in fishing planning for the National Institute of Research, but the fishing year 20200/2021 was landed with sandwash 540 tons while counseling was up to 319 tons. The Mixed System of Free Fish, and thus the labor sector has not worked to ensure that the fishing is within scientific advice in this case. A respectable president. This case appeared earlier in the 151st legislature, in the winter when it passed, but it did not get finished with a professional committee. The bill is greatly changed, so that it can be held, where the bill has made provision to protect the fishing regime, which was divided into the committee and in the comments received. It is my hope that the bill will now succeed in the end of progress for the fishing control of vertebrates and sandmelons. A respectable president. I have traced the main subject of the bill as such but I would like to refer otherwise to the series of articles that will discuss in detail the subject of the bill. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. As far as they're concerned, I think that there's nothing more to say. But I want to pray to the highest. The minister to consider a little deeper what causes the passing of the gray slip to be taken out of the matter. Certainly it was not acceptable, but it was the highest. To date, a minister has not had a reputation for fighting when a controversial matter comes before the council and needs payment. The highest. On the other hand, a minister explained what causes this dramatic change in the bill and how it works. However, a minister has suggested that this year a gray - free fishing system and a gray - free fishing system will be involved? Does this mean that it will remain unchanged? In what way does the highest order exist? Minister has the ability to attend e.g. The point that came to the meeting, therefore, the fishermen begin fishing at different times of the year, when Westerners, Westerners, and British officials were actually not the first time the entire area was burned up. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to explain what causes the minister to decide not to let the gray patch go under and without knowing that I have any other action involved in the hunting of its stock.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Truthfully, I assumed that this question would arise and even if I have to make a comment about what goes on. A senator who has not been fully satisfied may have been, in effect, given much thought to the matter, of the exact nature of the issue. When I get to the Senate's Constitution of the Achievement and Agriculture Minister, I need to take my stand on what issue of that Constitution should be submitted as soon as a new government takes over. I felt that it was right to put forth all the cases that had fallen to the council and therefore, more reasonable, in part, to take this particular matter apart and try to finish the section of the bill that was acceptable. That is not to say, as the case shows, there is no need for you to be better controlled on a gray patch. A senator, quite contrary to the viewpoint. For the most part, gray - eyed wasters in many parts of the world are the right to share a gray patch, even though the national relationship between small boat owners is at odds. The result? This section of the bill was to be submitted unchanged because it is a fishing control of sandmocks and invertebrates, where the section of the bill would not be divided.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It is proper to keep to the advantage of tearing more of the parties with active gray-flogging licenses returned a signature to the former officer's office. A minister to support the use of grey - free fishing. I thought it was the highest. A minister may not enter in sufficiently in what way the minister could envision a fishing process, since it is now only less than a month before the opening of the first territory. It's the highest. A minister realizes that it will remain unchanged from what has been so well-reproved that the situation we met here two years ago will remain abstinent?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u23	A respectable president. As indicated in the question of why. In fact, we are now in the middle of a gathering, and it cannot be avoided that a new minister will take over when we are actually in the middle of a fishing year. Then there are either the decisions that have been made before and the decisions in the air and then the suggestions we come to work out. General. There is another stage to discuss the hunting control of a gray patch, and we come to do it, which is not part of this coverage here. In my opinion, a respectable president, it would be a basis for us to take this discussion, to prepare for a special discussion at the council, and I suggest that we do so. A senator's means of doing such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u24	A respectable president. For this bill, sand charcoal is being placed in the donor company system that enables those given food rights to sell it and rent this resource of the nation. For the gray patch, I'm just saying, who doesn't want to get a grizzzlo to own, sell, rent, and anything like that? With the sanddock, there's a question to the highest. Minister: How could anyone of sound mind think of setting a species in a catch target that is primarily by power and by extension? There's really no one in sandwater fishing. It's a force of action with other species. What this bill will do, the only motivation it will lead to, is that it will increase the output. Those who get their fill of sand will throw it away right away if they don't have goodbye. They either have to rent it or earn it. That's the only thing that's gonna happen. There's another thing I'd like to point out about the reasoning for the bill. There's a quote to the Oceanographic Institute, and I'll get to that later. A marine research agency has not been able to assess the status of a strain of sandmelons for years. That's not possible. What's the point of the Oceanographic Institute - this is the question of two - for putting it in the quota? There is no scientific argument, and there is no evidence to limit national employment freedom to fish sand. This species should clearly be out front, and it should not continue at Versailles 2, 3, and 4. There are gradually new species being placed in the quota. There were six species left in 1998, and now there are over 30.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request and may now say, first of all, that it is my position as a minister of the marine emissary, but also as a general member of the Community legislation at the General Assembly, to seek scientific advice on the distribution of sources. I don't think it's helpful to doubt that there are intelligent people who are giving us advice on this subject. About what question? A senator here that we're repeating the story from Vessel, like a dog. The senator put it, and returning the value of free money is a fundamental difference. Sandokol was a quarter - century sharer in the part of the country, but the fishing was free outside that area. In recent years, the product of free fishing has increased greatly, so we need to act. This is the situation that we face and need to act. It is very important, too, when we are talking about an amassing government - even though I can discern it from words at times. A senator's refusal to compromise to form an aquaculture control of sea oedema unless he wants to correct it in his later answer - is that there are a number of details that distinguish between us as we are talking about a local share which, under no circumstances, will lead to community damage where these sources are local.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I have data from the Institute of Marine Research from 2021 regarding the sandbar, by permission of the President. The position of the strain cannot be determined by a research institution and is unable to assess the source's status and fishing pressure. It is also referred to scientific counseling by the Institute of Marine Research at the time of a report like this. They don't know anything about the trunk, it's obvious. This too is shown in the report. There is no discussion in any way about the scientific counseling of the Aeronautics Agency. This looks like some sort of economy. There's not much good at hunting, and there's something wrong with the companies. But this does not justify the limit to national employment rights regarding this fishing. I reiterate that this is force and it's supposed to continue free. I don't think the evidence has come out, but I wish to the top. A minister will tell me what they are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u27	A respectable president. It is now that, in accordance with the legislation established by the General Assembly, the framework for the use of the marine resource that we are all bound by them is assumed to be the Institute for Marine Research to give us scientific advice. I think it's very important to respect that advice. I think it is very important, as a politician who puts great emphasis on green views at all times, that a precautionary approach is being made in this regard to others when we are dealing with and dealing with the use of ecosystems. A respectable president. A senator who asks here thinks he knows better isn't enough for me as counseling on the art department.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u28	President. A bill report says, with permission of the President: ▪ Fishing management laws are based on an assessment of the practicality that results from the persistence of the stocks and sources to its expansion and to the source, contributing to the use of national fish stocks according to the target of Article 1. That's the law. Which says, by permission of the President: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on exactly that: irrefutable custody and possession. I understood at the highest. A minister in unsubstantiated inquiries recently found that there was a possibility that there was something to be done in this gift-making system we are in. But then there's this bill that pops into exactly the same pace that we've just met in the dramatized TV component class. Then I wonder if people really mean something by having to do something in this system to keep the wealth from building to a very few hands and not to our lot. Because 2020 was where government funds had to be paid to monitor the marine resources 500 million. At a rate, half a billion, because hunting costs were not enough for the operation of the National Guard, Marine Research Institutes, and other institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u29	A respectable president. As it was in my previous answer, I think it's important to keep it in place that there's a fundamental difference between what's being suggested and what's being cod enough to create and the equipment in it and I think it's important that we keep it. That is correct. A senator says we need clear surveillance. In particular, we need more intensive monitoring by means of what is related to marine sources and by the fact that resources are being collected in very few hands. It matters, and it doesn't just matter because we've made rules, it's also important because it's just the feeling and the conviction that the system is not fair and that we need to react. I also want to because of what was stated in the previous article on the precautions and because this is an important factor that when we are talking about contact with nature, it means whether on sea or land, when precautions are applied, we can never compare that we do not have enough information, and thereby we can walk about the resource as we please. We can never compare our lack of information, and that is why we can shrug our shoulders. If we don't have any information, we should be careful, and that's why I'm stressing that even if we don't have enough information on the basis of that counsel, we should let nature have the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u30	President. Very well. Minister would like to answer some other question in opposition to the question I wondered about. Maybe later on in the discussion, I don't know. I'm just wondering, isn't this exactly the same system as all other coded species are going into a front hall and other such? Is there anything different with this that we, as the Minister says, need to do something about? How can something be done when we're putting in some new brands or extra cooling, that it doesn't just go to the old system? I simply ask, "How is this different? "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u31	A respectable president. It tells itself that there is a significant difference between 220,000 tons of cod and 319 tons of sandwashes. It also tells itself that we need to take action now, for it is going too closely on this species. We're in a hurry. However, this does not change the fact that we need to work on a clearer perspective, a clearer position of the government, and the application of governments in the world that public funds are benefiting from the resource and that we can be sure that the social views, whether it is commercial or based, are useful to the source. I assume, a respectable president, that by the end of this week, I will present both the points and the timelines of the project to consider these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u32	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the law of fishing, fishing control of sandmocks and invertebrates. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There have also been intriguing inquiries and objections that may be much more appropriate to the whole saying system, which I find normal to be discussed. It's a little different to talk about, for example. An aquaculture on a mackerel that swims into the weekend as a new stock, or stock, that seamen and artisans have spent a lot of time on, a lot of money, and they find themselves in all kinds of conflicting places. In this case it took a long time to make it export and create a market in China, so there is also the pioneer rights and pioneers. This was at the time when the mackerel was shared, and it is still being sued by a government fund. However, despite the controversy, this sharing statement is particularly successful in the light of history. During the bloom of sea oedema, less than 2 billion people were affected by both fishing and fishing. In fact, the product of seawater fishing in Iceland has appeared in a similar way to that in other parts of the world. They start off with a great catch, and then unbelievably quickly, and that happened here, too, when most of the fishing grounds were activated. It has shown that approximately 6,000 tons were already caught, and it has now been cut to more than 2,000 tons. What has happened is that when the workers and fishermen saw that there were unlivable fishing in seawater, which resulted in the rapid catch of the entire industry, and what was supposed to be full - time work and part - time work became part - time jobs a few weeks a year, and the market scrambling together, as well as the income, they were agents who made their own decisions between changing the wave. Thus they worked for themselves, took the lead in our council, and changed our hunting grounds and sources so that their trade and industry would stay in their hands, and the markets would live and give them as high as possible price. This was of interest to seamen and fishing, to plan for themselves to stop the Olympic fishing. This bill is called in a very good way what the sailors themselves have requested. Since then, it has also been reported that the Cape gave advice on fishing for sea water. I am convinced that the Merition Institute has given too little money to study with them and has now perhaps based its views on, that I think - I remember conversations I had with the workers there - and I have considered any research in other parts of the world to be done and taken into consideration of them, and it's not unusual. At the same time as we're talking about how nature enjoys the doubt, I've also felt this way, because it's now a hibernation, even though the boats are all in the heat here under Smokenes right now, that hunting on a fur in a troll is not giving the doubt to nature. We now hear how mad the Norwegians are about not catching a sheep. This is because they did not succeed because their hairy skin is primarily a waste fish, and that is how we caught it in the front. But, of course, it was an outcast. I think the Minister has a good bill here. When we talked about this last year, there was a gray patch inside, she's not inside right now. There's a lot of disagreement about her, so it's taken out. In view of the kind of fishing, I think that the regional division and eating conditions in the region are just a very reasonable conclusion. They're in very limited areas, which give themselves to a very limited amount, and I think that while we're at it in this hunt, it's just really good to go that way. Thus, regional distribution is acceptable and will further protect the population and make it stronger, more productive, and productive, and we will soon create whole - wound work both in the sea and in the country. This has been the subject of the exuberance, and has been discussed there in the Versailles, the TV programs that had only good messages in many respects, even though I have criticized certain things there and will not repeat it here. But the shows have raised this discussion and questions about the production of fishing documents that we're always talking about here - or we're not always talking about it except maybe back here. We may not be able to talk about it here at the council. It's a very shy matter. But because we're always trying to find ways to make more peace with this system, and it's not quite easy to make peace with this system, it might be reasonable to consider this matter a little. Here, macroli has just been assigned in 2019. I'm not quite aware of how much of the fishing warrants that have been given since been sold at the general market between the projections. I was trying to get information about it, but unfortunately it didn't get into the house before I went to the speaker's bar. But I remember that when we shared in a long, blue - long period of time, there were some examples of what I know, where a large amount was sold almost on the day of his distribution. Of course, it is not the Lawgiver's thinking that such a course is possible. I don't think it was the thought of those who agreed that expeditation should be permitted, even though the Independence Party was against it, as it was shown in Versailles. I think it would be worth it when this case goes to the pro committee, if we look at the need to make more peace with this system and we need to start taking the first steps in it here in this room, not in town, but in here. I believe it is normal that they will be discussed with restrictions, e.g. expeditation of the distributed catch for a period of time, perhaps five years, and within that time period, only exchange of resources could be done but not rent on money or sell markets, because those who receive resources and who intend to sell it within a few days or a short time now have little to do but that we are building funds for them. I think that would be a good turn. I'm going to point it out to you. The employment committee to see if it would be right to do this in this example here is an a vertebrae that we are going to eat, and that is all that would recommend that fishing and processing of this fish be controlled by the sailors themselves and the industry and all the rest of the grounds. Therefore, I suggest that this be considered for further reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u33	A respectable president. I was listening to a talk. A senator, who would like to thank for that speech and welcome a certain tone that goes by him. A senator who needs to take steps to make more peace, to be more reasonable in the fishing field. However, I would like to point out that this government has had countless opportunities just to take steps to make peace. There's been some compromises, and I'd like to give an example. The legal requirements discussed in a constitution, a proposal from the prime minister, many finesse in that, unless there was a need for temporary agreements. The restoration was ready to agree with the arrangement as it was submitted unless the company wanted to put in one word: temporary agreements. It didn't get through. The same is true when we were discussing changes in hunting costs. Then we proposed a compromise proposal, to make peace, not to interfere with the fishing costs. Everybody knows we want the market route, but we said, "Okay, we're not going to interfere with that part of the bill. But let us settle agreements, take the step to make up Guðfinnsson Kristinn, former member of the Independence Party, suggested and supported the 2012 God - given committee rather than 2013, but left green ran away from that reconciliation. That's exactly what they've got, including. From the Independence Party, in the event that these steps can be taken, but when it comes to the piece, the red button will always be pressed here in the room. That's why I'd like to encourage you. A senator to follow this up on a professional committee and I'd appreciate it if he could describe a little more clearly what kind of depression he would like to contribute here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u34	A respectable president. I'd rather thank the answer or the thought. I think it's very important that we keep it in mind, and I must say it without responsibility that, according to the information I have, that mackerel assigned to 2019, e.g. to small boats, 6,000 tons, all will be sold to other parties. Of course, circumstances under macroil fishing have changed dramatically. There was a mackerel swarming in every flea, every pine, on landstones, but now it is two and a half days north of Smug to hunt it, and there is no small boat. That's the only way to make something valuable out of selling it away. I don't think it's too soon to happen that we're creating these things, and then they don't become valuable to the sailors who had thought about it. I think it's just very important that we now take steps, chicken steps, in order to bind it a bit, and to support that there will be some kind of limit to distributed resources at first. I think, on the way, you'll need the highest. A minister to look at it with us when new stocks enter the landway - and there really doesn't have to bother finding them; they just swim on us like the mackerel did - then, of course, there has to be some kind of system that says what value it is, who owns them, and who pays for them if he is going to use them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u35	A respectable president. Only with regard to new strains. We know that much valuable value lies in the seawater stocks and the natural mackerel, which quickly entered our 2010 or 2011 landway. Amazing value was created. I'd rather protest that we should wait for a new share. During our restoration, we have provided a bill about taking these steps. Then we take these new strains, macroil, which we'll take as an experiment for x years, ten years, temporary contracts, take sections and put on the market for normal, fair price guided by transparency. In fact, it's also been cut off by the government groups, the left greens, the forwards and the independence party. What I see here is that there is still a sick desire to go some way, to listen even. the 80% who say no to the unchanged, but do not listen to the 7% that seems to be in control of the fishing system. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen continue to get their companions to take this step. Yeah, it's a tiny step. However, that is a step. A senator is talking about and pushing the making of at least temporary agreements on our common resource. I'd like to encourage you. A senator to speak with his people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u36	A respectable president. I haven't spoken of any special contracts being made here. I haven't been talking about it. I have not objected to this dinner system as such. There's a lot of things in this saying system that's complicated, many smells of something to be fixed and can be fixed without changing the basics of this saying system that protects the fish and we've seen it. Recently, in a radio interview, the vice president of the Resurrection, Dild Mär Kristófersson, said that when the fishing warrants were distributed in the early 1980's, when I was working in this article, there would have been no means of paying for their clearance at that time, not any preparations. We remember exactly how it was. It was all on my ass. Every craft in the country was more or less an asshole, too many boats and had to be adjusted. That's the way. Many nations were doing this. We went that way, and she was very successful because we did well, and we are to celebrate. However, this does not change the fact that we are allowed to discuss how we want to repay and one of those things on the sea resource. I'm sure I'd like to discuss it. This is where the stock markets came to the country. I'm not talking about something having to wait for them, of course, we're supposed to have laws or rules about how it will be distributed in due time. We got caught in the sack when the mackerel came, didn't know how to handle it. Now we know that if this happens again, we need to be ready for it, and I'm just happy if it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u37	A respectable president. Here we will discuss an urgent bill on the fishing board of sandmocks and invertebrates. In recent years we have seen the need for the more efficient, sustainable, and predictable fishing management of these species. The program has so far been managed by the counseling of the HQ on each hunting area. More than anyone concerned has agreed that the formation of a sector of regional species is an advantage. This is true of both public and private agencies working in the sector. So it is time to have such procedures, such as About sea oedema. Some regional species are not shared, and harmful fishing government is at hand. The Agency closes each area with a Regulation when the Agency considers the Agency to have reviewed the recommendations. The exact date of this Regulation cannot be known. This involves a measure of inefficiency and unforeseenity for those who engage in this trade. This has been repeated in the last few years of fishing, and as a result, the aquaculture of sea oedema has declined, leading to a great race for fishing, a worse association of fish and less valuable things. The result will be worse, and the interest in hunting will diminish. In the case of sand charcoal, these fish are being made more accessible throughout the country by means of the bill. It is necessary to recalculate the cohesion division of sandmeals, which takes into account the whole landscape. The present arrangement is not targeted over the land. By means of the bill, we will achieve a more efficient control of the hunting and making sure that the opportunities will be across the country. With these changes, we make it easier for our profession to succeed. The fishing regime has established that fishing has been stopped when total resources are reached, although in some areas the fishing has not been started. This has, for example, been observed. The fishing management of a gray patch, and that is exactly the case that this bill prevents the use of sandmocks and invertebrates. These changes are thought to improve urgent matters, and I'm glad we're making the fish more efficient, more sustainable, and accessible. We prevent overfishing and evading, along with making the lives of hunters more predictable and easier. However, it is worth referring to the fact that the bill is actually transferred from the last term. Like the highest, that has changed significantly. The minister came in earlier. No doubt, the main change is that all provisions for the change in the fishing management of gray space have been removed, as shown in the report. A former ocean leader had delivered a bill that was involved in the fishing management of species that we present today as well as the fishing control of a gray escape. A respectable president. Although the subject of today's bill is good and essential, there is a need for further action on the fishing regime. The present system has long been critical of its members because of unforeseeable and overfishing, that is the most unremarkable and unrecognizable. For example, during recent years gray - free fishing has had to be stopped because of recommendations from the Oceanographic Institute. Today, those who hunt gray slips have a short period of time, or generally for a month, but during each fishing year the number of days is random. Thus, each day will be very precious, and the arrangement will not take into account the weather, sickness, failures, or such factors that result in the loss of a fishing vessel. Another example might be that in some areas, fishing is later permitted than in other areas because of the rules for peace, especially by television and dominoes. All of this leads to excessive trouble in hunting on a gray patch. A great race is formed, and there is overfishing, and there is little recruitment. It is almost unrealistic to take your first step in this industry because of this. Last year, 150 gray-spotted exodus have fallen into a boat. It is thought to be mainly due to the circumstances mentioned above. Grey patch and seams of gray coats have repeatedly called for a change in the arrangement. The majority of these are in favor of a gray - eyed fishing control that had approved the subject of a previous bill. These are individuals who know what to make up for in this article, and it is important that we listen to their viewpoint. We can talk for a long time about the difficult situations in each fishing year, but I want to take advantage of this opportunity and ask the highest level of questions. Minister what his next move is about a gray patch. Does the Minister's wisdom provide a bill that allows for changes in the environment of the fishing system? If so, I'd like to ask you what kind of changes you've made. A minister has in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u38	A respectable president. I considered these views here in my previous contact with the discussion, and I actually explained the situation we are in today regarding this particular bill with the fact that it was especially my political opinion that it would be better to finish the section of the bill that did not settle so much a conflict that was involved in the process of losing it. The present government is that there is a limited number of permits, some kind of greeting, even though it is called something else. Of course, that system is difficult, and obviously it is not at that point that I have made it my goal to listen to viewpoints, especially to those who are in the fishing business, to do these fishing. I've met some gray-flops who are doing this fishing at Brenafjörður, and I'm on my way to see more people. I haven't put a bill of this kind in my Congress, but I think we should keep this discussion here awake, in view of the need to live in some way that it is satisfactory, both for the trunk as well as for those who are involved in this hunt.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and I am very pleased to hear that a minister has the intention of listening to the views of gray-handed ones and those of the hand of a gray coat. It is an advantage to improve the quality of the work, the availability of new parties, and to make it more specific, as I came in here, and very important, because in this work, there are many opportunities and our roles here at the General Assembly are also. to help them. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister to work hard on this matter and to sharpen it in order to further work on this matter because there is a need for changes in the profession, just really. And if the present situation continues to exist, we could see further deportations in this article, along with a limited recent development, which is a serious situation. So I'm the highest. Minister to further win this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u40	President. It's always good to start with a 1. a law about the control of fishing when discussing changes in fish control laws, by permission of Presidents: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. It was now highly chewed at us in TV traffic in the past weeks after the project wasn't like this, that it was a possession, it would be a permanent possession, whatever the law says. In fact, no one has tested whether it is. From the point of view, I find that we have a bill in our hands to add species to our present system at the height. One minister says that just at the end of the week, there is a timeline and a schedule to change it in some way. I look forward to seeing at the end of the week how high it is. A minister can see that coming. For the sake of this bill and the general problem we are dealing with in Icelandic society that there is a need to make more peace with the fishing system, I would like to say that perhaps there is a wrong way to say that there is to make more peace. We need to be reasonable. That's key. If we have a feeling that it's a fair system, that's automatically acceptable. The feeling now is not that it is a fair system, far from here, but that it works against pars. legal about the control of fishing. For that reason, this awesome game is here, the Road Play, called an incomparable educational and entertainment game. This is the 1977 re-version of the game. I'm one year older than this game. It's getting pretty old. There's something else about this. That's right, it's older than the saying. You could put a little more into it. the card card. Usually, it is this kind of thin to look at, but it may say something about this environment. This brings us with this fine fishing pot that tells us what the strains are here. I need a lot now. There's no mackerel, it looks like I'm, but he's become a big star here on the beach right now. This box is extremely well informed about what we are dealing with, despite the fact that the game is created before the cry system is released in 1977. This is before we are in the condition we are still in. The foreword is the current president of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, which is very interesting. There are some things in this--how shall I say it? This is the Christmas gift of 1977, e.g. That's very interesting. It is such appeal to the problems we are dealing with to this day. It's, for example. - It's always nice to look into the rules, but then there's the least part of this rules - people talking about the banks. Let's see, it's always a pleasure to look it up; the Hallisan, and so on. Yeah, you can do this. It's nice to open it up and look at it. This is new, reinvented. Yeah, here it is, exactly. - It's also said that we can decide how long people are gonna play, how the game ends. You can decide to play, e.g. An hour at a time or until the bank is empty. I find it very interesting in the light of history with this good old bank, the Road Bank, and so on. Didn't he just go empty? Didn't we play this thing too long? Is that not exactly the problem we are dealing with, the system we are saying needs to be settled, not that it needs to be fair, but that it needs to make peace? I believe that's exactly what it's supposed to be. We've been playing it too long. The bank is empty. This is a re-version of a 1977 game, and I think it's a description of what we don't have to do. We don't have to reinvent this game. We don't have to redesign the greeting system. We need to make a new one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u41	A respectable president. By means of a bill presented here, sandwashes and sea oedema, invertebrate, are being placed into the donor company. The bill contains a fishing rights that enables people to sell or rent this resource of the nation. The bill represents the segregation of citizens of the country, i.e. Few people get free of resources while the public gets nothing. Sandocarbons are largely caught in the warm waters south and west of the country in drag. It is well known that the spread of fish is altered by changes in temperature. It happened, for example. ... withthisstudentabouttheyear. If the sea warms, it will begin to catch more on the north side of the fishing grounds that do not have any quotas to control. With this bill, the Food Minister is creating another evasion and food waste motive. When the fish begin to catch sandwash in the north, they will become part of the settlements of the north, and what will they do? They can either start renting or they'll be evasive. It's nothing but power that's on the move. This bill will only lead to an outcast in order to be stated. I'd like to state, and I'd like to point out that there's a Congregational anthropologist on the left, green, ore. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson. He could have come to the agreement of this bill, and I don't doubt that he had pointed to this point, that sandwash would probably be catching on the north side. The fishing beds on the bill aren't any. When I read the bill, there's no mention of protection from fish stocks, I draw attention to it. It's mentioned in one place, with president's permission: The fishing force of the last fishing year has been beyond the guidance and fishing of different counselors stopped before the end of a season of fishing. As a result of a reexamination of counselling, seawater fishing has also been a major contributing factor. This is unfortunate; it leads to a race for fishing.... A bad outcome will come from the fishing. The rationale behind this bill, as indicated in chapter 3 of the report on how to comply with constitution and international commitments, is primarily an economic argument. There's no evidence of protection of fish stocks. The protection of fish stocks is the basis for the quota system, and here in this document it is not mentioned at all. It is said that it is based on an assessment that the practicality that results from the persistence of the sector and its sources to its expansion and to the source, contributes to the use of national fish species according to the target of Article 1. - I'm gonna do it. - I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. It's just taking the economic evidence, only, not protecting sandwashes or anything like that. I can take an example from a report by the Institute for Research on the Sandedhall. It makes it clear that the source's condition is unknown to a Habitat Research Institute. That's it. That's it. I can take an example. The report of 2021 says only plain and direct: There is no doubt about the development of stock size in the coming years where there is limited information on the size of the river walk that is being added to the fishing stock. It is also said that there is not enough information about the innovation of sand charcoal, where young fish tend to tend to some of the shallower than the stopping net does. It's repeated. There is no uncertainty. I asked the highest. A minister of this before, and he mentioned, in fact, that I forgot to mention sea oedema, and that's exactly right. It is the exact same with regard to sea oedema. I have a report from 2021 of the Marine Research Institute, a general assessment report, which says, by permission of the President: Since the underlying data for the stock assessment are low or limited, it is considered that Iceland's fish populations are considered to be among those where the underlying data for stock assessment are low or limited. There is no information on these strains. There's no biological evidence to put them under quotas. It's crystal clear. V.E.G. A minister here mentioned the precautions. Let's discuss it here. The most known precaution is stated in the Rio Treaty chapter 15, which says, by permission of the president: To protect the environment, countries should use the precautions as they are able. A lack of scientific assurance that there is a risk of serious or irreparable damage should not be used as a reason to delay the cost of action that prevents environmental damage. I call attention to this, since there is a danger of serious and irreparable harm. There is no risk of irreparable or serious harm if sandwash and sea oedema do not go to the salami. It's crystal clear, and I can tell you why. First, there is no biological evidence, and second, we can compare it with the gray patch. Now she's been trying to put her in the quota, that's not what she's been doing. There's no danger, the stock's not about to collapse, it's still living a good life in the ocean, and there's no predictable danger that sandwash will die out at Icelanders. It's a force of action with other species. That's basic. What's underneath here is that there's something going wrong in this sector. The report shows so clearly that this is being done. I allow me to read here from this paper with the bill: a poor return will be the result of the hunt. In fact, this has led to the production of ships at this hunt to look for mutual agreements between the exchange of fish. They are beginning to figure out what is most practical for them, their preparations between them, in the present system. If you look out for a job freedom of choice, there are no biological reasons to limit your job freedom in hunting sandmocks and sea oedema, as this bill does, none. Also, the rule of caution mentioned by the minister does not hold an opinion. It's just that simple. There is no danger of serious or irreparable harm. There has been no news, and a Meritional Research Institute does not know whether this strain is about to collapse, neither sandwash nor sea oedema. I don't often agree with the unions of a company on the fishing road or in the LEU, they could easily change their name. LEV is incorporated into the national soul, but it shows that they stress the need to promote marine research in Iceland, including where there is a lot of sand. Research needs to be performed before you start considering putting this in the quota. It's not supposed to be. So it's crystal clear that the only evidence is economic. The fact that there is a problem in some industry and with the developers who are already looking for mutual contracts to manipulate them - it's just their job life to take care of themselves. This is how the free world and the market economy work. It was mentioned earlier in the mackerel, that small boats had been given macrovota, and they immediately sold it. The code system -- it's so good for the last act of the Versaille, what you're doing. They're creating funding, they're creating a possession by law. Something's being limited. If we were to limit international travel and they were assigned, I could start selling the rights for a trip abroad, just like here, they're building property, they're making funds, they're building an independent holding value. They can be mortgaged, rented out as they are in abundance, and their access to them is being limited. That's basic. The Lawgiver is not supposed to be making something of value in this way; he is to do it in just the longest of the songs. Then they allowed a free exposé at that dinner, and then the dance began. We're still in the sameasel. This is probably a 40 - year struggle now to allow commercial freedom in this article. Even free hand fishing that does not threaten fish stocks is forbidden. They are limited to 48 days a year, with nothing but vivid details. There was a temporary agreement about the quatane. Yes, I'm sure you can. There could be temporary contracts in this case. Only with regard to the practicality this is being asked for, the government's being brought in to have the goods now, and to sell and rent it or mortgage it, whatever it may be. I remember so well years ago that there was a system of day - to - day fishing. Who demanded a greeting? Yes, it was the fishermen, the fishermen themselves. They got hundreds of millions. You were turned into a greeting, and you had a total of 140 to 150 million. I know this story. Everyone should know this story. What's going on is totally classic. It's a fiscalation, they're changing markets, and then people can start selling their parts. Here it is, in turn, that there will be an increase in practicality and further gain from this article. Hv. A senator noted that in the past fish were being fished in a tremendous way. Why was that? That was because the State never required economic management. So it was that no matter who it was, in 1970, 1980, it was in the senator, a senator went to the minister, the minister went to the bank manager, and he went. The entire nation was made poorer than making a demand for the economy. This strategy does not come until it comes with the greeting, this economy that would have had to come a lot earlier, and we are still biting off the needle with a crown that no one will believe in. It comes from the fact that the industry was able to steer the gangs the way it was suitable, absolutely. There was never any need for merger in this article or anything like that. The weakest of the land's construction could be carried out on a plagiarism, and so it was. It's exactly the same when you read this bill here, you think, "Yeah, that's still the same thought. But now the Minister of Precautions added, and I hope that I have answered that there is no irreparable damage, although sandwater and seawater do not go to seaside, they are not supposed to go to the quota. There's no need for that. It's just going to increase evasion, increase corruption in the system, and we're continuing with the same trend. If I recall correctly, in 1998 there were six different species. Little by little, they are being multiplied. I think they're over 32, there's some kind of uncle who recently told me. Now we're adding two, and it's 34, and then the gray patch comes, and that's 35, and that's how it's going to go on, so it's gonna be totally shut down. Now we have a little hope within the beach weather, which is just a struggle for human rights. We have the prehuman rights opinion of the United Nations, which suggests that the Icelandic fishing system has violated the judicial order committed by the European Union on human rights agreements that has taken place in Iceland. I have no doubt that the decision is not taken lightly out there, that such a system violates a human rights contract, but it was. The answer to that from Iceland was the beach fishing. Give me a little freedom, give me a little job freedom. Today, the freedom to work is being limited by these species, especially by sandwashing. I can't imagine how this group, such as the Independence Party, that teaches itself to freedom and enterprise, is writing up on one more trip. But there is a simple explanation. It's because the group is totally controlled by the industry, and then the left greens are on board to keep the nation in big numbers, decades of activity, and with arguments that simply fail to resist. There's no biological evidence. There is mainly some requirement for practicality that cannot be met. If there is to be an improvement in the practicality of this industry in hunting sandmocks and sea water, the industry should do so themselves. They've already started, as I quoted. They're already looking for deals. Here it is: In fact, has this led to the production of ships at these fishing to look for mutual agreements between the exchange of fish levels. They themselves increase the cost of living. That's the way it should be. That's how it is in all the market systems in the world except maybe Iceland in this industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Still, I still think that in certain basics, I may not completely agree. A senator in everything he said. Yet, he pointed to something very interesting. I thought it was natural for a gang crash to insist that it only called me "$50, U.S.." Isn't it time to change the currency? There's only an extra in this counter. The other thing that interests me is that he drew out, and I think I'd like to direct it to the professional committee and to those on the committee to examine precisely and listen to what the NTSB presents. I only heard a minister come on it, and I think that needs to be sharpened that if they're going to be saying goodbye to these factors, sea oedema and sandwashing, we'll have to have a clear scientific reason to do that. There is nothing impossible for the economic evidence to live behind such a greeting, but it is better that there is a mixture of these two because the economic evidence promotes a measure of practicality in the article, which often encourages innovation and often encourages better use of resources. That is what our experience has said, though there are fundamental factors that we may disagree about in the big system if we enter it. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: If this case is resolved, the committee will proceed as a matter of course. A senator disagrees, though, would he agree with a proposal to temporarily establish contracts against these species? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I'll support everything that limits eating fish. The timing does it in time, yes. It's all better than the present system. I'd agree with the timing if this case cannot be dismissed. I don't think there's any evidence to that effect. When the scientific evidence is not available, the economic evidence is referred to. If you are looking at 1 mg. The law on the control of fishing is primarily scientific evidence. When fish stocks are being limited on the basis of science, economic evidence is presented. That's it. When we are limiting this, we are doing it in a practical way. And the most accurate way of finding out was a greeting to limit the fishing. These are not two separate arguments. I can't read it that way. It's mainly a protection of marine stocks, and that's a cautionary rule. And the rule of caution is not relevant to sandwashing and sea oedema because we are not experiencing irreparable harm when we don't put it in the sea. Also, the NTSB doesn't know anything about the institutions' situation. They're not big stocks, they're powered, they're sandwashing first, and they're gonna add a little bit to the evaporation. This will increase waste of value. That's what's underneath. I believe that the economic argument - in the free market economy of the market itself to reveal it as already done. It should not be so that the state should begin to help with ◯cartelisation in the first place. When it takes place on top of everything, people switch between their markets when it starts shrinking, it's classic for competition. Iceland has a perfect monopoly. The problem in the free world is that it is missing the Rapporteur. The Icelandic saying is the perfect monopoly because the government is in charge of surveillance. It's the ones who put the law, that's the people who watch that everyone takes their own percentage of the cake. It's not possible when you're changing markets about soap production or anything in the world. It's a complete artefact, and it's an oscillation of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u44	A respectable president. It's been interesting to listen to talks today, and although it's not a big deal, it's still a species of fishing, and we have to have some basics. I think it's perfectly clear, including. For what? The last speaker, that the committee must consider very carefully the factors he has made objective comments. Thus, when a particular demand and application is made up of such plants as sandmocks and sea oedema, and they are partly in the process of detriment, this pressure comes to be put on the quota. It must be the lawgiver, and then we must have scientific evidence. We must realize that what this has to do with science, first of all. We need to have certain ideas about the significance of this article, which is a variety of people, for the towns, for the fishing villages in many parts of the country, and especially for the basic princely affairs of the nation's rights. We must not forget that the fish in the sea share the nation's share and that we have experienced the last days of great hysteria and soreness, both on the part of members of the council, both present and former members of Parliament, as well as the minister of the left green or on the part of independent persons, who speak of all the suggestions for changing the existing fishing system as national use. It is natural to say very much about how they look at the season of hunting. They view the hunting rights as the exclusive rights of the makings. I'd like to protest, but the last few days' discussion has been very illuminating. In this case, we need to be careful that this is not a big deal. These are the basic princes we need to think about. After four years of this administration, and we came to control fish institutions, it's incredibly crying that we haven't even been able to get a proper resource law in a constitution. Why? Is that a lack of leadership in the government? I'm not going to say that it was because I believe that in many ways the prime minister took the initiative to perform excellent work at the beginning of the work during the last term, which was called to the presidents of all the political parties. We agree on an eight - year plan to change certain aspects of the constitution. The first season or the first terms period, we intended to include to make resource regulations and environmental regulations. We also planned to talk about the promotion of power to foreign institutions. There were other factors we were going to take during the last terms. During this time period, which is now beginning, we planned to go to it, including the one in the third century B.C.E. To examine the equivalence of votes, one man one vote. Part of the injustice in the fishing industry and in general in New York City is rooted in our lack of balance. We were going to examine more factors, and now we're in the second term. I've said it before, and I'll say again: I believe an agreement from the last term is still present when it comes to a change in the constitution. If we didn't finish this in the last term, we'll take what we've got to do, these four things like the resource principle, the Icelandic Regulation, the environmental principle and the Presidential section, and we'll be able to do it now as well as follow the rules I've mentioned earlier. Is it a lack of leadership, I asked before, off the left green and prime minister in the constitution? No, as I say, not necessarily. I supported methodology at the highest. The prime minister in this matter, but when it came to it, it was impossible to compromise with us, e.g. in a suspense that said: "All right. We are going to accept the resource directive set out by the Prime Minister outside the section of the president that we agreed on, as well as the Icelandic and environmental regulations. We agreed to this unless we said one specific word, that was a temporary agreement, not an uninterrupted but a temporary agreement. The obvious thing is, when you look at the background, we see that the reconciliation commission I set up as a marine minister in May 2017 and the present marine minister sat in and other groups too, it was very clear that all classes were prepared to try on temporary agreements in one way or another except one group. It was the Independence Party. The media made it clear. What a joy that was! He took a bill from the current chairman of the Action Party and then a marine minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson's son, for temporary contracts that included contracts to 18◯23 years of age. That was perfectly clear. But instead of being tested by the prime minister for these matters at the council, we were able to handle these matters, a temporary resource policy, to meet all the other categories, but the Independence Party was determined to just salt everything and nothing was done. That is why now, although this case is not a major case in the fishing industry, let us not have a civility to build the foundation for such a matter, that the Constitution has not come forward to defend the rights of the nation, however we eventually agree to this matter from the council, that we have somewhere to take hold of the nation. We haven't been able to do that in four years. That is why I feel that this discussion is followed by these wonderful factors at the Book of Versailles, but as soon as they are wonderful, they are also in some way inexorably, showing us in a certain way the cry of injustice to the seabed. I've told you so many times that I'm a member of the greeting system. I believe it was the only right step in its time after the Black Edro 1978 report. In the past, we had experienced the collapse of the plant, and there had to be action and political courage to do so. The people didn't see everything coming. That's the way it is. All classes have come up in one way or another, building up the eating system, and I sense that there is a slight hurt in saying that the smaller left groups of green and left have played part in the front room, a little bit of bitterness, something not to be mentioned, such as saying Voldemort in Harry Potter movies. But that's the way it was, and I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of accepting the deed. It is also true that in the Daði when this was Kristófersson up, the structure was not in place to pay very much. The fishing road was hit by a sliding collision. Hence, a system was designed to protect the institutions, to create an environment that made it practical and profitable for us to operate here in the seabed, and eventually to take into account the rights of the people. We've done the first two things. The nation has been left behind in the last act. It was only after the exuberance and after the practicality that starts through the exuberance and often at times a very difficult time, a merger, as well as a seabed business being laying down and moving around, into that they could then begin to drive themselves and we could see ahead of a handsome and better time in the fishing field. It was not until the 1990's that we saw to it that the sea route could pay resource costs, and that was also the case. There's a lot of discussion about whether the road should be paid for the exclusive rights of the resource. Then, according to Icelandic sea routes, they are not the state's or state strength, not the state's, but that they are not the state's grant when this is the job that can be accessed, the private rights of, the fishing resource, the nation's resources, and the sledgehammer. Is that not a subsidence of the state in the form of this, in fact, unlimited access to the resource that costs dirt and ketel? Don't come up here trying to tell me that we don't have part of the official seabed that way. The 2000 Resource Committee made its suggestions very clear. It was the longest convergence, and it was a successful order for that resource - based committee, contrary to groups. There, representatives of the public, not only were handmade by a minister of their time, and LIVE was there and stood by this agreement for a few years, but then were quick to run from the agreement when it was due to be realized, when it was due to be made temporary agreements, when it was due to be put on proper resource fees as they and they should be paying for this exclusive right of a common resource. The system yes, can we improve that? Yes, it can be better. It can be fixed. The less the system needs to be taken into account. We need to examine the changes in both the rural and the general rural areas. We need to examine coastal areas, both biodiversity, marine villages, and the article as such. Then there is the big system, and we have repeated suggestions on how to get what the people are calling for, shout at, but the Masters of the Globe always prevents them from handling things properly, whether it is through SFS or Lús, or in part within those orders of the administrations today. There can be no difference. I'm happy for something that happened to me. paritaprevir The Independence Party that you can take some steps. It's good if they want to take a step, but it won't be to keep them away from the people's having and to get their rights, which is a fair natural price for their possession of the fishy resources around the country. How do we do that? We've had the experience of pulling on strings and creating a system that is incomprehensible to all and ultimately rewarding for those in the fishing field, which are mostly skunks in business. In the end, we simply trust the market to decide what is right and normal for this resource access. A respectable president. I see I don't have much more time in this speech. There's a lot left to say, but this bill we have is not big, but we have to watch out for these princes. We will ask: What about the nation's rights in the end, because we don't see everything coming? We'll ask and we'll make a suggestion, if this comes in, about temporary agreements. We will test the actual will of the judges and members of the council who often say that in words they want to see a system correction, but each time during the past four years, the parties have prevented us from passing out our suggestions or simply pushing the red button. [[The president calls.]] This should be kept in mind, and it must be exposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. She mentioned injustice in the fishing road and changes in the constitution, and I would like to ask her why. A senator. For example, if there is a resource problem in the constitution, does it believe that this will lead to the present saying system, the current fishing regime will conflict with the constitution, either in whole or in part? Will it solve anything in this escapade? The code system is absolutely political, I think, and it would be nice to hear an opinion of what. It's for a senator. She answered my question earlier, and I can't stand to answer about the Icelandic crown and the euro. In the past, the work, the fishing industry just went under, went to the senator, who went to the bank manager who went down and made us all poorer, about 10% if the walk was about 10%. Today, and this bill here seems to indicate that if it doesn't work out, the senator's plan will go to the Minister, which brings a greeting. It seems to be a bit like that about the kind of species that will be going to dinner. If it gives up, it's the way they're going. To a large extent, the Icelandic crown is the history of the system of government, which had already existed in the past, and we have not yet managed to cope with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u46	A respectable president. Will the provision of temporary contracts lead to the end of the greeting system being contrary to a constitution? No, it won't. But what goes with it, as it occurred. to the resource management committee from 2000, to have such a resource directive in a constitution, it is mandatory for the Parliament to bring a legal adjustment to the quota system. We have our suggestions there. We've been talking about the timing of contracts to 20, 25. As soon as temporary agreements have infiltrated the constitution of the resource, the rights of the nation have been guaranteed. This is not done as it is today, with untimely private rights being passed on to hunting warrants. That's how it is today, the only industry that uses the nation's resources that are not made on temporary agreements. So, with the resource directive, which I hope we will achieve during this terms, if the Independence Party allows, we will only have to clean up the fishing legislation to coordinate it with the resource policy. It's a huge interest to secure the rights of the nation. The other question related to the crown, I'm going to answer it later. I'm not gonna take 15 seconds to answer about the Icelandic crown. I think you should just take a look at the bank market and the financial market. There's no contest. Why is there a race? It's for the Icelandic crown. No one wants to come here from foreign companies and do financial and insurance activities while living with such an disloyal currency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This, in turn, results in an inexhaustible increase in Icelandic families and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Let's go to the Icelandic crown. I have another question. It is very important that this law should enter the Constitution, and the consequences can be a law code and, of course, the consequences. But I noticed it in a sermon. A senator says she's a member of the Oval system. Now there's no result of the greeting system. In 1983 we caught 220,000 tons. Today it is placed on 220,000 tons, whether 220,417 tons. The average communication system in 1984 is 219,000 tons of cod. For the eater system, 1960,1983, it was 287,000 tons, and it was without the British, I record it. We were catching much more back then, so there is no result. It'd be nice to hear what you're thinking. It's for a senator. Why be provided with an eating system that does not produce the desired results? And another, Is it a free beach fishing that will then be hunting out of town, and that she thinks the fishing is free fishing, threatening fish stocks in Iceland, and how? It would be good to hear a decision. A senator to free coastal fishing that I believe is very important to be allowed as soon as possible. It's a custodian. It's the rights of the country. It's the rights of professional freedom and clean and smart human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u48	A respectable president. Once again, I want to point out that while the nation has not received its rightful share, the benefits of the eating system will not be great. This is how the eating system can be criticized, and I'm primarily critical of it. The people have not yet received their share. But both the people and the fishermen too will get their fair share because the standards we are using within the saying system and in contracts between sailors and fishing are not right. That's exactly what we know. of national catch criteria, of incineration, etc. I'm not gonna go out on that scene here. But as long as the eating system doesn't deliver its rights to the nation, it's not a perfect system. When it comes to using fish stocks, all I can say is that we have to trust science. We must trust Captain. I'm wondering about those who disagree with the saying: Are you against us starting counseling Frodo? I'm not saying that's necessarily the case, but it's being pulled down here by 220,000 tons that were caught at the time and are comparable now, I think we've even gone down to 130,000 tons of 2008. It was a shock, but we got over it, including based on scientific advice. I believe that the eating system has paid us more money today, that 220,000 tons, than we did at the time for the 220,000 tons we caught today. Why? Because the catch is being made better. We're getting more per kilogram today than we had them. The use of fish in every fish in the country in the past was up to 80 in 85% of the time. [[The president calls.]] So there's a huge difference between the system and the motivation for making better use of the resource. But it remains that the nation will have its share, and we will not stop until they have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u49	A respectable president. No one knows his life until everyone's the way it says. I wondered if we're going to strike here in New Versailles, whether any of the series that we're doing here on the road right now, the beginning of a continuing convergence with continued application of our wealth around the country, to a few chosen sears who will deliver or rent or anything else. Now all of us know this 5.3%, this pot that's used for the beach fishing. 1,400 tons of the 8,500 tons are shrimp and shellfish improvements, shrimping benefits, e.g. ... sinceinhabitants have not been caught for years. Even so, some people who were shrimping years ago get their shrimping benefits, just regularly, they just have a check for it, no less. They don't even have endurance. Many do not even have a boat. What a control. What a mix-up in this, like anything else. What a disgrace, a respectable president, to all the Americans and our resources who are supposed to have us together! Koli, imagine, a coal caught by force, and I don't know of a single boat that is specially made on sandmocks, not alone, but I know that coal is power, and now it's wonderful to eat a roasted coal in the bridge after Mom does. It's much more fun to keep it in the pan at home than to throw it in the ocean, which will be used if this bill comes forward. I tell you, a respectable president: We got the Versailles, and I really appreciate it because it raised us of the kind we've been living in all this time since the dinner system was put on. Scientifically this and scientific the other and Cradle - I'm just going to point out that last spring, the Oceanographic Institute lost a third of the codfish, it just disappeared. It wasn't the first time, and not the only time, so science is not 100% infallible. Like what? paritaprevir The Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson correctly points out that we were catching so many, many times more, before this system was placed to protect the estimated fish stocks. All right. But at the same time, what did we do? Then we removed hundreds of foreign ships from our jurisdiction, which had already scraped up our labor to a greater extent than the Icelanders themselves. The bigger the picture, too, may have to be considered. How is it that we haven't gotten married that the experts have brought up at Merro when the saying of the saying system; that by saying goodbye, or by tying in the catch, we will certainly promote the fish populations, and in the end of the day, the product should at least be restored. to have doubled in five to eight years, he should at least To get 500,000 tons. Here we are in 2022, still carrying our more than 200,000 tons, and not more like last year, when Cruro had produced a catch and lost a third of the cod population. At that point, the warrant had to be reduced to the fish. It is of interest, though, to see how this is taken step by step, how it is to say good - bye to one species after another, and for what? It is totally incomprehensible for what, except if it is to bring her to a few hands as it is now, and promise them to continue flogging with the nation's collective resource as it is currently being done. We do not have a fraction of the water that comes from the sea resources, not from fractions, and if we could mention what is being done to our sailors, whether for coastal fishing or for larger ships to sea. Right after the catch, 30% is taken by trade. I think it's a reason to reiterate that when it comes to shore, he often buys the catch of himself much cheaper than he sells it later, and then comes through the rest of the way, and this club here and there, and all over the cabins. It is of great interest, in the absolute sense, to see that 30% of the income is taken over, 70% then divided by the output and the sailors, who receive of these 70% by 283/434%, who are also crooked to pay oil tax by orders. They are also shot to cover the expenses, and the latest and the most amazing thing that came a few years ago was that they too were shot to participate in a new construction. Can you imagine? Today, we live in a double-gravity system where, in fact, it's amazing what can remember much about whether the candidates themselves are weighing their harvest or that's done by neutral parties. This march of the community around our sea resources has become extremely joyful and long ago. The apartment shows this and proves it, and it actually lights up everything we used to, and we could use a review. However, it would not be a respectable president that we would suddenly become one of the world's world's world's world's world's top players, who will certainly be set up, since it is in this hall that all these decisions have been made, whether for good or for bad. I call it evil when we've seen how our TVs have just dried up and now most of them hear what we call fragile settlements. Yet, a respectable president is being discouraged from giving these tiny TVs the opportunity to engage in beach fishing, hand fishing on small carts with a hook. I just want to let myself think that this bill is not made by the highest. Food minister, of course, except in part. She'll come and move it here, but she's got it in someone else's hands. I can't believe that the left movement, such as they have spoken, by coastal fishing, by means of fishing, by fractured roads, and by taking a hard stand against us as owners of the marine resource - wants to leave more of the fish in the ocean than is already done. We can thank you if you can take a pole to a harbor park and catch a tail for the food without being held in custody for it. Such and such restrictions have become all called freedom, employment freedom, the joys around it, for example. In a TV lock, it's all gone the way it does. What, then, would these huge structures have been able to mate the hooks that have become the land and the middle? In fact, there is hardly that company in Iceland today that the Count has not been able to buy stock in or that has taken over much. That's how Iceland is today, and I'm not talking about how they've been running all over the world, and they've set themselves up a empire all over the world for our money, for our resources, for our combined resources. What do we get for that? Yes, a respectable president, the resource charge was dropped. We had more than 11 billion, but now I think we're getting around 5 per year. These are small money, a respectable president. It is a world of Congress and officials shame forever that they do not intervene and do so right away. That's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u50	A respectable president. We all know this, and we sense that there is a lot of talk in the community today about this question of justice in the fishing road. I think there's a reason for that now, both on the grounds that we have a new minister, the Supreme Minister. Food Minister, for this Ministry and for the publication of the prime minister on a specific part of the fishing system, we will discuss the overall picture. I think it's best to do just that in relation to the community discussion and in the context of the debate that is now loud, but is stable in Icelandic society, about the nature of large productions in Icelandic society. I wanted to do this first in the context of our constitution, and perhaps also in the context of the role of politics, which, of course, is to protect the interests of the public. The constitution contains the most sacred rules of society, the principles that all other laws must pass. When the interests are as great and general as the resources of the country, then there is reason to discuss them in the constitution itself and to list the principles that governments must respect with all other resources legislation. As we work here, we know and know the history that through the years, there have been a number of prime responses for resource management. But I wanted to talk about the bill as the highest. During the last assembly, a prime minister asked for it because it made me feel like a man crying at him as to what was not in the law. The bill used the word national property and spoke of the word national property but without giving the term national possession a real meaning. This is done by stating that the right to use national property is temporary and by mentioning payback, the need to pay for it. In the bill of prime minister, it was said that there should be a legal payoff for privileges for innovation, which is the situation today. The general law is about this. Fishing laws require this, and we know what it has done. This told me that the intention to change was very small, for this expression had led to and strengthened the situation of the public and the situation of the large - scale industry. The bill was silent about the biggest political questions, silent about the factors that matter most. I'm not gonna say it was silenced, but it was at least It is silent to meet the nation's pleas for normal game rules in terms of the sea resources, silent about justice in a fishing road. Madam President. Although we are here with a bill that has specific factors, these fundamental questions are always underlying. I'm going to say that the underlying area is also a wound in society that doesn't heal because the result is out of the public's sense of fairness. I would like to review Ásgeir Jónsson's words with the president's permission, who not long ago brought a lot of attention to the situation in Iceland, saying that much of the concern of interest groups is being controlled and that it would be a major matter to cross over with them. We know those words, and they gave us tremendous attention. There was the bank manager, including the bank manager. to indicate that public staff working in the interests of the country have experienced personal charges against large companies because of their public service. Most can see the balance of power in that game and that such actions serve the purpose of taking the energy out of the public economy to strengthen the interest. These were the words of one of the nation's highest officials. And these were words that came down in an consideration of how Samaria's leaders had conducted themselves. Of course, nothing there was being offered a new truth to the nation. It was only important who had the words, and the nation was connected. As I mentioned earlier, the bill was missing. The prime minister there is to underline the importance of the wording of the law itself that the right to use is temporary and that a normal price will be due to its use. This has a legal significance. This has political significance. This has a social significance. If the Constitution is clear on the fact that national property should be preserved and protected so that only temporary agreements are made to use them, the lawgiver, then the government at any given time, then the Council cannot violate that rule. It will be impossible to hand the resource to the sea without temporary agreements. This is the point in which my mind is important in the political and legal context and would create a different atmosphere in the community than it is today. I would have felt that the design itself should be said that the project itself should approach the matter, so it is in search of the solution to politics and not just sit on the sidelines. It is of interest to note how hard this is because the time binding of rights, rights to limit quality, natural resources in national property, the principle of which are temporary agreements. I'm calling the energy industry on the custody of state and rural society. The Energy Act allows rural society to hand over their patents to operate heat - related grounds for a period of time at a time. We see this in earth's research and use of resources; temporary permission. Fish farming laws; a license is recommended for a certain period of time, to 16 years. The government's bill on a highland park, what did it do? Defined Iceland's highlands as a national natural resource. It made it clear that the park was forbidden to run jobs except by temporary agreement. It is special, but it may not be so complicated to realize what it is that the exception applies to the water. You see, sometimes the strongest message in what is not said is in silence on this matter of utmost importance. Madam President. At the end of the World Camp, there has been quite a debate about the spirit of time and the image produced by an Icelandic community. It is, of course, the history of time. Of course, it is not a documentary, but it is much more than a well - designed TV factory. It is interesting to hear the people behind the shows declare that what was happening to the political bitch herself in these factors is true and correct, of course, in a tighter time frame than it is true. There is a context that sheds light on the time that was present but should not need to shed light on the time of being, why the politics is locked in this dingle. The code system was put on because of the bad conditions of the fish stocks in the country. The tide had collapsed. I think it's a story taught in the schools of the country. The code system was the solution to the storm. I support a saying system that would use our approach to the tickets. The decisions on fishing today are based on scientific grounds that, of course, have a fundamental significance. This is a community - important goal and goal that serves the environment. As a result of their production, economy, valuable creation, all of this has increased with the arrangement, and it serves the interests of society all. But on account of the stakeholders and the representative of the Independence Party, there is again and again trying to mislead the debate by making it possible for sustainable fishing to be the focus of the conversation, that sustainable fishing is part of what the nation's criticism finds hard to do. I know that the interests of this nation and I know that those independents of that kind know very well that this is not the point of conflict, but what the nation is getting for providing access to the national property of the marine resource. Time and again, we have seen measurements and observations that show that the nation is not in favor of the currency. In fact, according to surveys, there are few issues over which the nation is equally intervening. According to one Gallup survey, 7.1% of the people are opposed to paying market fees for their uses. Still, it does not seem to be the right thing to do. Salaries from the world of the world's seas from 2016/2020 reached over 70 billion dollars. The productions paid at the same time about 35 billion in hunting expenses, half of what the owners of the fishing companies were paid for. The cost of taxes and fees from 2011/2020 was about 616 billion, I understand. At that time, the fishing grounds paid about 30% for taxes and public expenses and fishing costs. 70% then went to the self - deforestation. It's a mess. Here, the Polish conflict lines are irreversibly clear. So I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity, now that this case is on the agenda at the same time, and once again a loud discussion in the community about this business and about the national part of the nation is being discussed in general. I believe that the market for access to the fishing grounds is the reasonable way, if the just way, if the trustworthy way, is the reasonable way for the nation, that is the reasonable way for the sailors, and it will include reasonable guidelines for the entire industry. Of course, those who are currently fishing will be able to do so but will pay a natural price for using the resource. That's what this whole thing is all about. I would like to mention at the end that we have reached the point so that the billions of people we would be allowed to enter a special wooden reserve that would come to the settlements that the fish hunt for good. Thus, these funds would be used in the infrastructure that we know is truly needed in many parts of the country, in the development of areas where food was formed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u51	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on Article 490 which is the 350st Act of Law No. 116/2006, on the command of fishing, and on the law of No. 145/2018, on the cost of fishing, in terms of commercial fishing. With law No. 49/2017, for example, on a number of changes in marine waters because of the commercial amendment of marine eco-efficiency, was first set aside by special rules on the use of marine plants in the natural world of Iceland. This brought in a detailed law on the control of fish fishing, and it is recommended in the law to implement a review of the laws on the establishment of commercially provided marine farming no later than in October 2020, but it is also recommended that the law's law be brought to an end on the basis of January 1, 2023, cr. XIX. provision for temporary action in the treatment of fishing. Thus, the current law of the law is that it will fail for the next few years and then no law will apply to this specific use, which was prepared in this way in the contribution of the Council of II at its time. In accordance with these laws, since 2017 and the discussion that was much around that legislation, the Marine Research Institute has greatly increased its research on marine vegetation. With the bill, there is a package leaflet with a review of a research project carried out by the Agency on the basis of the Agency's work in connection with the iPad and seagulls in the Columbia School of 2016◯2020. The ensuing bill package also includes the work form of the Marine Research Agency on the thrift and its use, but it suggests that regulations will be simplified. It can be said that it is based on current experience and, in view of this experience, it is not considered to be a specific legal requirement for the study of the Marine Research Institute and other sea crops beyond the general rules established by these institutions and their research emphasis so that a specific law on study law is not considered necessary in the light of general legislation. It is suggested that the use of commercially-producing servers will be allowed at Fish Labs, based on a current schedule and the Fishing Room will grant permission for innovation on decks for each occasion or up to five years of age. The main foundation of the permit is always a so - called strategy that should be laid down. In this case, it is necessary again to build on the best available information on the spread of the iPad and potential for practical use, taking into account the environmental situation. Within a grid layer, an agreement must then be made with the owner or owner of the sea soil. It is then suggested that the removal warrant be given to permit reception stations, but this document has not been practical, and because of the proposals made by the bill for the innovations of the spells, the warrant is no longer needed. It is suggested that regional management be maintained in the development of marine vegetation out of the sea. This allows the government to determine the areas where sea catchment is authorised each year and to ensure that the use of more than counselling is not under way, as reference to 2 mgr. 7. track No. 79/1997, on fishing in Iceland's Fishland weekend, on the authority of the Minister to make a special demand for a fish lab for the creation of marine resources for commercial purposes outside of the marine environment. So I suggest that the fishing costs not be given to sea plants, which is a new industry, and the resource has not been shared. In support of this new industry and its potential for growth and innovation, as well as for urbanity and commercial development in the country, I think this is very important. A respectable president. This bill is presented in a somewhat unusual context, in view of the fact that the present law environment will fail at the coming year and at the same time I believe it is correct, in the history of this case, to explain that in the case of the case, both in a political consultation and in the agreement that the Ministry has had a wide range of viewpoints. In view of the importance of obtaining some legal frames around this use, the Council at that time felt that it was very important to obtain more information and research at the time of law. Therefore, as soon as I get the story, I want to know that it is important for the council to take this bill for a very thorough consideration. I believe it is important that the employment committee be very careful in handling the case and listen very carefully to the viewpoints presented, both from those who have been involved in this business and from those who have studied science in this field. Of course, the bioavailability is always an enormously sensitive factor, and we have previously discussed the importance of caution and caution in the use of each area, but I want to sharpen the committees in particular as to precautions because it is evident that these are the parts of ecosystems that play a very important role in other marine species. I'd like to make this decision clear, considering that, of course, the decision is always in the case of legislation, and here the bill is out of my sight in the role of the Minister of sea plants, but I am making a decision here on the 1st. The issue is how important it is to take care of this project, although it may involve a variation from the emphasis placed here on 1st. The point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the history of this important bill. This is a new industry, or not entirely new; the formation of a marine prisoner is practiced at the brackish factory at the Rhool. I'd like to ask the Minister why this bill and the rules on the development of commercial seafood are under law on the control of fishing. Actually, it's also about a change in hunting fee law. I don't think it belongs in the law of fishing. The reason is this, as indicated in paragraph 4. The bill, that there is a warrant for floundering in the shores and sea soil grids, is agreed with an earthe or landowner. I don't know exactly how much of the telethon is outside of Internet law, and if it wasn't right for this to be a special law and the emphasis would then be on an agreement with landowners. This is an enormous interest in landowners. For example, I can also say that Internet law is, yes, defined as 110 m from a massive surface in the earth's layers. There is also a provision in the book of John, which has never been replaced by the International Assembly of Iceland, which is less subtle and goes further. So it could be considered too. But the point is, I don't think it belongs in these laws, it should be a custom. It would also be good if a minister could tell us how much of a sea catch is outside the Internet. I cannot help but mention the language of the land, and I will be there in a talk afterward too. The final site taken by the Wilderness Committee is an island and a harvest. They are large, so landowners, owners of islands, and harvests have to account for their land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In itself, there is always a legal point where the specific use is prepared. My experts tell me it's about using the infrastructure in the system. In itself, there is no material objection to having special laws on the use of marine vegetation or sea - level specialization laws. Rather, it is much more about what is most natural in the legislation. The key is the subject of the issues presented here. So I don't have the answer. A senator asks about the size of the inside and outside of the grid. I'll look for that information, and I'll get them to what. A senator who closes a discussion and hopes that it will sharpen the matter further. With regard to the views discussed in this bill, it is important to reach this utilisation in any way when the current law escapes and my department considers it to be done best in the way this is suggested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u54	Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I think there's more to this than legal things. We were here talking about the changes in fish management laws regarding the eating of sandy charcoal and the sea oedema and the spineless. This business, which involves the building of marine plants for employment, is turning very hard on landowners. I've been working on foreign countries, and there's nominees and the government to attack farmers and landowners in regard to the highlands. In each of the codices that began with the first law in 1881, farmers never defined land above a mountainside because they trusted in Jón's waters. They did not deal with Internet law but because they trusted in John's Net Song. Then comes the lawgiver later and tells them how far they should go, 110 m from sea level. I believe that this case is largely equal to the rights of landowners. All commercial uses of marine growth must be agreed by marine landowners whose internet laws are owned. Then an agreement should be made. I find that in this bill, it's the license in the foreground but the agreement in the background. It's supposed to be totally backwards. I rejoice over the fact that this matter will be taken into consideration by a committee that truly needs to be done. If so, it would be worthwhile to examine the very foundation in this regard. Now these are the Constitutions of property rights, which are being used here for marine prosperity in Internet law. I believe the Internet law -- it can be checked, and I hope that I'll be on that matter later in the winter if the time ends with John's book of the law, especially with land and especially with Internet law. I know there was a synopsis proposal to consult John's book on Internet law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u55	A respectable president. That discussion. A senator is shooting here, of course, a part of the big picture. The sea is out of control and can extend beyond the Internet law and property of landowners. This, of course, matters in this discussion, as we have seen in speculations. Senator. Landowners refer to the Constitution of the Constitution when it is included in the grid, and this is part of the rule work we're going over here. Although the exact location of sea - culture rules is a matter of material importance, it may be a matter of principle. I repeat what happened in my first answer, that I think it's important to go. A professional professional committee considered this to be a serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u56	A respectable president. I would like to agree that I think the committee will have to take care of this matter, even though many things are understandable and even familiar, but there have also been some changes. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for the 2018 University Hall report, including Says that land - to - land development from country to country can become larger industrialized in the future - something that is a cause for rejoicing. Therefore, as I understand this, it is being done to change the emphasis. Is it, then, that's what we're talking about? Is it the use of thongs and seawaters, or is it in the general ocean? Second, I would like to ask: Why is it most natural, as the report puts it, to set non-term laws on this utilisation to ensure careful management of job companies? Why, though, an untimely law? That's exactly what I would have thought a temporary law should have given a measure of contempt in this matter, let alone some contracts, if it's outside the Internet law. Then I would like to ask: " Why is the income of the state's budget drawn together by 8.5 million dollars? with the exception of a fishing fee? These are three questions, and then curiously, the fourth question is whether there has been something examined in this context because there is an extensive application. I'd like to know in the context of this case that we are discussing what the Ministry's research has done in cooperation with both landowners and others in the development of mussels, which would then be able to take place in many parts of the country and strengthen the various marine areas if matters were right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. If I start at the wrong end, because of what. A senator in particular asks about the mussels and possibilities there, so it is quite clear that there are very great possibilities. I've already been meeting with those who've been working in this rice industry and speaking to them that there's a lot of pressure to find in this industry. Hv. A senator specifically asked about these fixed fishing expenses and spent more than 8 million a year in Fishing Room. To answer, it has been difficult to collect some of them because there has been some debate over whether seawater was taken inside or outside the grid. As noted earlier, landowners in this subject have referred to the Constitution's property rights when it is taken within the grid, thus indicating that the foundation is not in place. This, in fact, is not the basis for the Ministry's opinion that hunting costs are available. This consumption and this coverage are naturally based on agreements with earth's owners, and this must be true in this way. As indicated in the question of why. This is difficult for a senator because of these limits on the Internet law and what happens inside and outside. I know why. A senator is well aware of this matter because the present law was set in its history in the water management department, and he knows and understands that we need to build this scientific foundation under these decisions, but at the same time, we are very careful about other rules and laws in this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u58	A respectable president. There's a few things I'd like to snoop on. I agree that if we keep our cards right and keep the cards right, there's a huge opportunity for these matters, whether we're talking about thongs and seams, clogs, etc. But I keep in mind that we must bear in mind the property rights and rights of landowners in this. Just as they are clear within the grid, I want to address the national rights outside the Internet, to what right we need to guard there. There's something else we've been working on in the big movie. I'm also putting everything on notice, and I understand the ultimate. Ministers are going to go down this 8.5 million and want to thank you for a good explanation of why this will be the exception of a hunting fee. Because there are doubts, I think that the facts should be interpreted by landowners and those having the right to control the network, which is quite clear according to the book of John and is also covered by the Constitution. But I would like the Minister to continue this conversation about the mussel industry. Speaking of parishion instruments and those places, I think there's a lot of access to the mussel industry. It may be noted that if science permits it, technological and biologically, it may be possible to have a good cohesion with its shelling. My information is sure to be the same as ministers, that annual world production and shell market are now about 17 million tons. 90% of the shell is grown. If we can grow a shell and keep in mind that a fish farm has been blown down many times, just like it happened in Norway, but then I think it's something we have to do with patience and create an environment that will be suitable or encouraging to look at these topics and tools better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u59	A respectable president. I completely agree with what's going on in a case. A senator says there are a lot of tracts in the shell industry. I think I may encourage some. A work board to call for information from pioneers in this article and other unorthodox issues of marine resources, since many are involved in very exciting activities where the means to attend are high. It may be appropriate to consider in particular the framework and orderliness involved in the motivations or obstacles there are. I'm counting on it. The job committee will consider the viewpoints presented during the discussion, as well as the tips that came from the question. A senator with regard to this delicate interaction. I think it is important that the council also accept the responsibility we are all facing, that we need to ensure that there will be an acceptable regulation on this sector at the end of the year so that it will be clear what will take place when this environment that is now out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to join the 1st. ... ofthisimportant bill as the highest. In itself, a minister gave a specific setting for a similar case in 2017 and why it needs to be taken back to the Council and we need to renew our legislation by working the Parliament at that time was a particular development or experiment to overcome the use of this unprovoked resource. Because of the discussion that took place earlier, I would like to, as a respectable president, to say that there may be few things that are more likely to connect agriculture than this very matter. Where does the traditional use of farms disappear, and where does the ocean take over, the general property, and the use of the resources there? That was the principal wrestling of the Council in 2017 when these laws were being discussed. There is tremendous opportunity for the use of seagulls. The opportunities to get closer to us and become more practical and visible are increasing, and there is increasing interest in building up a work based on this utilisation. This may have been why the legal application of the Law was responded in 2017 to cover it. It may not have been the same as we expected back then, and perhaps not a large increase in the number of companies who use this sea - level economy as they did, but the main ingredient of the bill is to disappear from the control that the council decided on to a new strategy that I think can be a very good method of building on. In time, after research into the efficiency of this marine economy, you called the simple picture to the best of your ability, i.e. what the efficiency of sea plants would be like. When we start discussing the matter from a dierent plan and with this background in the already acquired studies, counseling and responsible use can be better handled. However, it is to say that here we may discuss primarily the British ground as such. I think we have a great obligation to be careful and to use in a responsible way the seas and the foodiest available to our planet and the vast resources in the Bresurfjords. There are, however, more areas in the country that have this potential for the use of sea plants and for interest in waking up more and more. What I wanted to put into 1st. The case, pointing it to what? For example, a professional cartel may be following the research done on the marine economy and its efficiency, the role of marine vegetation may be the result of the research that has been carried out on the marine economy and its efficiency. fish stocks and parenting conditions of various species of fish and how vegetation and its use are involved. Of course, it can be said that there are many and never enough research to be done on these subjects, but I can sense it on the people of the British world that this may be the most powerful question now, when we look at the point where a particular basic research has been done, preparing a factory, and other persons to let them know that they want to use sea pollution, that we know more and better the effect of using the vegetation and beating it, and otherwise on the environment in the fish. This is only limited to a bill report, but surely a reason to address the point where that knowledge is involved, for it is the same with this and so many other factors and life forms all, all of this being in hand. Infusions in one place can have a major impact in another place. However, it can be said that since we discussed the bill presented to this day 2017, we have gained much knowledge, and we are in a very different place to set rules on the use of sea plants that we were then. Therefore, I think the progress towards this bill can be of great benefit, but it is primarily that part of the marine economy's role for other crops in British and other places around the country that we need to gain better control and keep in mind when we are laying out rules that are based on the new strategy we're talking about so that we can have a good conscience: we're trying to aim for a more sustainable use which is supposed to be and most fundamental in all our resource uses, whether we're talking about land within the range of land or in general or sea or whatever other resources we're dealing with in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u61	A respectable president. This is certainly an important bill, one that will contribute to the development of articles that will grow much in the future, which is the use of marine vegetation for a variety of chemical processes. I reiterate what I earlier pointed out that I feel very important to a professional committee to put it in special laws that could pledge a law on the creation of marine vegetation for a job. There's enough talk about fishing management and putting this into the law, I don't think it's right. It would be very important that there would be special legislation on this new industry, not to link this current fish control law to it. They are now debated and debated. When you read the bill, I think it's worth looking at, too, more out of the country, more watched from the landowners, the owners of the sea. The absolute bioavailability within the network layers is high. I asked earlier if it was known how much of this was outside of Internet law. It didn't come out, maybe there isn't any numbers, but it would be very interesting to see those numbers. The Internet is defined in aquifers, 110 meters [110 m] from a massive surface. There is another definition of the Jón's Book of Networks, as was shown in a synopsis proposal for the last council, which is also important. I'm saying there's nothing that can be said about her being decommissioned. If the internet is longer than 110 yards [110 m] under ancient law, one of the most important legislation ever owned by Icelanders, then it will be protected by a constitution. If the usefulness is primarily within the Internet layers, then this sector will be based primarily on the will of a landowner, and it must be respected. I cannot help but talk about landowners, but mention now that in national lands the state's demand for the East and the last area under the Unauthorized Committee are islands and harvests. It has a warrant, as amazing as it may sound, so that landowners themselves will make the government their property known to the government. It is not that the government's attorney has demands on an area and then defends the landowners. Rather, it is turned around, the owners of an island, and the reapers have to make an account of their land. We can imagine what that means when it comes to the sanctity of property. They are not allowed to keep their possessions in peace, to have to account for their national boundaries, national boundaries that have always been targeted from their land mines, their neighbors'boundaries with their neighbors. It was said of the fishing fees of seafood back here, fishing fees, and so forth, and I think at least when it comes to a fishing fee, it should, of course, be paid to a landowner. So there's a pact between the user, which is to raise marine growth for industry and land owner who owns the Internet law, which he pays according to a contract with landowners. That's what the report says. I can't read it any other than that, so it's done in the recycling process at the Rhools. For a government fund outside the internet, I haven't really done enough research, but it's just a later matter. This should be primarily against landowners. I think it's 4. The bill as it is today is made more of a license than of an agreement with a landowner. I would think it would be more correct to believe that in the foregrounds there is an agreement between landowners and user and Fish Lab or even the EEA, where these are landowners, they assisted them in that contract. It would then be just a form, and there would be a new plan, a new plan, a part of the agreement, or the deal in a particular form. In this way, the permit is actually given, and it is accepted only by governments to prevent abuse and other activities. So I think it's a complete approach to government permission, not an agreement between landowners and what is going to be used. That is correct. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson that this case has made a pleasant link between agriculture and seafood, and I can remind you here on a skiff that has been pursued from land studies and is of great importance to sheep farmers, of course it's a means of taping and scourging. There are certain points on the bill I see, including... plans to build a factory for construction in Stykkisolmi. It is very important and important to see that there is an increased interest in the use of this natural resource. The report also points to the fact that the importance of recycling for the smokers and the review of local government shows that any changes in the development of marine growth are undertaken with caution and will be considered based on national development, which is a very important factor. It also includes changes that include the discount of study obligations before allowing permission to be used. There is a fundamental principle to the fact that there is a field of research, and there will be no discount on the protocol that is already clearly on the factory at Rhool. I also believe that it is important to have further research done by the Oceanographic Institute, which is now presented with a new profession. How important it is that knowledge builds up in this regard! This is true of other new jobs, such as fish farming, and I will present a case that will be expected to be recorded tomorrow on the increase in knowledge of Western fish farming. I'd also like to remind you of the reviews of the Black Factory, as shown in the report: ▪ As told by The Sharp factory, the bill refers to a calm recognition of the innovation rights based on historical innovation experience. It is noted that the right to strike a beach is heard by the owner of a sea soil. Slaps on deck are based on the billing process of an agreement between the representatives of the firm and the owners of the marine environment. Then, as it is stated in another report, it is based on a competitive view to bind marine owners to sources for sale of biofuels to a limited group of industrial industry. It is particularly the last sentence, to be entirely in the hands of the owners of the seamen, to negotiate with those they want to negotiate on the basis of government freedom of the land, that governments do not have the fingers except for the innovation plan, that sea culture is not being overdone and destroyed. It's actually to be the only thing that limits the freedom of the policy of the landowners and the usefulness, that's to protect nature's interests. I don't think there's any reason to discuss this, but I hope it's given a very detailed discussion on a committee and it gives an article to the committee that will provide the basis for a good discussion on this important subject. I'm sorry, I'm not a professional committee member, but I will follow up on this matter whenever possible. This should not be an issue in any way, it's a matter of presentation, and I hope this doesn't go into the debates that have been about the government of fishing over the last 40 years. I believe this is a case that everyone should be able to agree on when looking to the Constitution and be a benefit to an Icelandic community, and a strong future sector can be created.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u62	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Food Minister for bringing in this bill. As the first vice president of the professional station, I think we, me and you. paritaprevir Captain Stefánsson's Vagn must be able to do this well there and discuss it. It is important to support innovation, and sometimes it has to be done by law, e.g. temporary legalization, experimenting as was done with laws that run out at the end of the year. You see, things need to be tested, things may not work out, and then it's okay to come here two years later and say, "We've done it all too complicated, we can simplify it. Most of the sentences in this bill eliminate a rule that we thought we might have to do two years ago, but we may have realized that we don't have to. We need such innovation in law, i.e. To be ready to try, find what works and what doesn't work. But when it comes to it, it has been new in this country for a long time. Our forefathers ate it, and it has been worked both for food and for as food as well as for animal feeding. But if you look at the innovation companies the bill talks about - at least. 14 innovation companies, I soon found on the 15 web, so they must be growing up like algae balls - they watch even more valuable things out of this raw substance. I know one of the things I had the opportunity to give only advice, which was watching how to use algae, certain types of algae, to make organic material to escape plastics from the use of food. If this works out, there's a lot of potential. This is how we sometimes need to think, but we need to remember that even if we have used it for decades, this may be even more valuable if we use it somehow differently. It is important that we do so in ways that we can test it, it's not too complicated. I remember once reading news from Kenya, where they had reduced their efforts to start a 123 to 12. It may have been by creating a bill like this, since half of the cell says it's a fluke. This is so that we need to make innovation easier. We need to be careful, and one of the things that we are on the job committee is to consider whether this is definitely still so that we are not overindulging ourselves. At the same time, of course, we also need to make sure that all of these resources, this new resource, are in a way that the environment and the environment are satisfied. I think we have the maturity today that can find ways to secure it and work together to open up opportunities to use the resources that are around us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u63	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the legal committee on the basis of a Congress resolution on financial policy in the year 2022 placed in place for the next two weeks. In fact, at the beginning of history, I would like to mention what we've been discussing at times in discussions about various government matters and matters from a financial committee, how this debate and economic debate have changed in recent years after we adopted the laws we support today and are very well developed in the discussion of financial policy for the years to come; how we dealt with government funds with money policy. We may be discussing some aspects of the economy much, but we did at the Generals while discussing only the budget for each year. The synonym that we're discussing here is based on Article 4. Laws on Public Economics, No. 26/2015, government law. It shows that the policy aims should be expressed as a proportion of gross domestic product and that the policy should be in line with baseline Sustainableity, precautionaryness, stability, firmness and transparency defined in Article 6. Same song. The issues of the budget should be based on an approved financial policy. The importance of the conference's treatment means that the Agency's monitoring with the implementation of government financial policies will be more targeted than any other, with the overall objective of a five-year financial program being developed further in the annual financial programme. It is important that civil and financial policy be in harmony with each other and work together to keep inflation low and maintain stability in the economy. A policy guide is to increase the debt of the government as a proportion of GDP in 2026. The suggestion is presented in one tablet, with a detailed report that will not be tithing here. The legislation is set out only as a percentage of gross domestic product, but the committee has calculated the sum of the total in terms of Iceland's National Institute of Economics and thus shows the financial scope of the policy for billions of dollars. very clear and published on page 18. 2 in the opinion of the greater part. I draw attention to the fact that there are several key factors in the economic situation in Iceland, such as the development of economic growth, unemployment, and inflation. A comparison is made between the Laboratory's national interest project and the Federal Bank. As noted in the report, predictions of inflation differ greatly from those foretold by the Sustainer to a much greater inflation this year than those of the Habitat. Also, the Secret Bank predicts less unemployment compared to the Haust lab. But the Haguen prophecy provides a basis for policy development, as is recommended in the laws on which the policy is based. A respectable president. We seek to examine and compare key economic forecasts, but the law is clear that we should use Haguen's predictions as a basis for our policy. For this prediction, there can be many words. Sometimes it is hard to predict the future and especially so, but predicting the past actually proves to be difficult for many. This also depends on how we interpret the person's predictions and how we have prepared them and what our attitude is toward them at any given time. As is now known, the state's debt is going to grow substantially over the years, which is directly a result of the economic effects of the pandemic crown virus. This trend is discussed in the opinion. According to current financial policy, government debt is estimated to increase from more than 40% to up 51.5% of GDP to 2026, the head of debt over the period. However, the plan assumes that the debt of the government will not go up completely into debt but will result in some 49.5% of GDP at the end of the financial policy period. In 2026 it is estimated that an increase in the debt of the official station, as measured by the proportion of GDP. During the financial policy period, borrowing will, in part, depend on funding the government business. Much of the government's debt management is about borrowing. It needs to consider how an assessment company responds to economic developments in Iceland and what credit rates are available. At the present time, the public can borrow something good. The crop of unsaid bonds is now about 4.6% and 0%, respectively. Farmers may borrow about 1.2% of interest. Soon, international growth may increase as a result of severe inflation. In the long run, however, it is likely that the government will continue to offer a fine deal. Based on most other European countries, the government's debt status is good in Iceland. Clearly, the debt ratio presented in the financial policy is manageable, as shown in financial matters. The law lists five baseline levels of self-sustaining, carefulness, stability, firmness, and transparency. Baseline values are set standards, or principles, that apply to the shape and implementation of financial policy and financial agendas. Baseline values are now much more important to policy makers when complex financial rules have been decommissioned. When deporting or setting aside financial policies, financial advice points out that it requires a well-defined and beneficial process to maintain credibility, which is part of the baseline value, to be guided. The financial adviser points out that now, as a national balance policy, the baseline values for stability and sustainability on one thing. Thus, it is normal to reduce counter measures because of a pandemic crown virus and work to straighten out government traffic. This reduces the production potential that supports the money policy. The financial board believes that measures that contribute to sustainability are also supported by sustainability. The report discusses many challenges that have a profound impact on government finances. These include the long - term productions of the nation's dating, the driving force for economic growth, and its production. A special chapter calls attention to key results presented in the opinion of a financial body and considers a greater part to the key elements that are, by permission of the president: The Council believes that the aims for stopping debt collection of 2026 will be met on the basis of the policy. Investors in investment levels are noted to decrease according to financial issues. It calls for a clearer policy on investments and practices regarding government property. That is where long - term plans, interest, and priorities should be placed. The financial adviser believes that there will be no reimbursement rate for the years 2016-2019 without further revenues. However, the temporary growth beyond the long - term growth of economic growth does not allow for any longer - term excessive planning. They believe that governments have established an uncertainty gap based on statistical calculations. These calculations replace the set floor on the leftover. In addition, the narrowness of rural society allows little room for investment, but it can reduce sustainableity. A financial body points out the need to link a discussion on the sustainability of public debt with the development of primitive interest levels and economic growth. In this context a self-sustaining assessment of the level of debt can be made in terms of discontinuing the rate of debt growth. However, financial advice suggests that the public's sustainable debt is not at the present rate of concern, which is because the debt rate remains relatively low. Finally, financial advisers point out that public financial status is generally good, in comparison with other countries and past. There, the legal code that applies to government financial policies and procedures has proved its value. A respectable president. I would strongly agree with this point of the financial council that I read in the last place where financial advice is actually to confirm what I said at the beginning of my speech, that this law that we are now applying to the policy and implementation of government funds has proved its worth. Although it does not in itself provide much purpose to consider it in a long talk in a subsequent discussion of the resolution of financial policies in the years ahead, it has all contributed to our entering this unexpected crisis with all the support and status of the Kingdom treasure that has often been the result of unexpected events. A respectable president. Next, I'm going to be standing in the members of the greater section for the tips of the greater part and only about the uncertainty range. A special study of the rating is about the uncertainty curve. It says that to follow baseline levels that require careful policy management, it was necessary to have space on the floor of the rest enough to take into account uncertainty about the economic wind. As financial advisers have noted, this has resulted in a moral problem that resulted in a tendency to survive on the floor of the course, although the progress would be better than expected. A report with the proposal is presented as being significantly superior to economic growth, expected to improve as a result. The greater part of it points out that although there has been an enormous aim for the eco-efficiency of policy with uncertainty, if progress becomes worse than expected in national interest, there is not a set of national criteria that have been set, if the progress becomes better. This is what more than one part of the budget is looking for. Although the more part does not provide a detailed objective in that subject or actually draw in a budget for the public or for the state funds in this context, it is very important that the Parliament discuss it and establish the main policy of developing and developing the economy with greater force than plans would expect to result in a spontaneous expansion of the budget. In this discussion, we will no doubt recall much more than that point in times past, just as we would have to take up financial policies that have been approved for unexpected events. Today's news reports are not necessarily encouraging, since many things in our environment can have a powerful effect. It is also important that we keep our main powers clear, since we are following a trend, we do not use the fluctuation to increase our expenses. Similarly, the uncertainty level and uncertainty vector that we have now introduced into financial policy and were not in a previous financial policy, on the other hand, the fact that we can face uncertainty cycles up to a certain extent without setting up our own policy. In terms of investments, a greater proportion of budgetary committees point to the following: A more specific point is given to financial planning on investments, pointing out that investment levels are falling and calling for a clearer investment policy and construction policy on government property. That is where long - term plans, interest, and priorities should be placed. The majority of the concern is that the small investment skills of rural society can bring about sustainableity by building up the inside of a debt, which became too much behind the 2008 collapse of both state and rural society. Discussing how government investments are made in financial policy needs further analysis. The duration of exposure includes total pay regardless of the nature of expenses, i.e. Expansion costs, transfer costs, and investments are not distinguished. The majority suggest that on the future there will be more coverage of investments in the report by policy. A respectable president. We have seen a discussion of how we make investments and how we treat public investments at the important support of society, which is then supported by a longer time that builds up the country's future competition and is actually handled in a government account so that it is comparable. The discussion is developing, not just in this country, but in many countries around us, who have comparable laws on public finances as we do. This, in turn, will be our task here at the council, whether it will be on the next budget or on any later matter of government affairs, how we will take the discussion further, as we are actually using the standards that money - making investments can be very important without our counting in total financial expenditures and breaking the rules we have set for ourselves. So the greater part of it is thought to be careful about reducing investment levels, since we are simply talking about not being allowed to indulge in investments. Investment may be a powerful force in the contractions and in the face of important challenges. However, long-term recession in investments can counteract potential for growth. Thus, when the economic crisis calls for increasing the maintenance of public funds, the budgets that go into the government's daily business and the way it develops, rather than for exploiting long - term investors, need to be looked at. In this way, more than previously, careful money calculations are behind investment options. One of the main objectives of government funds is that economicism and money policy are in harmony, but there was no fault with the taking of the laws that we support today. The greater part points out that in recent years governments have succeeded in achieving this goal. After a large debt after the collapse of the bank, where the public debt became the largest 92% of GDP in 2011, economic growth followed and the stability proposals were used to reduce public debt. The debt of state funds under the law's rule of debt was nearly 1,100 billion dollars. 2021 at the end of the year. This ideal debt status has enabled the pandemic to increase the public investment and support for both companies and individuals, as well as the ability to let the automatic fluctuations work to the full and thus offset the decline. At the same time, the Navy also used its influence, e.g. by reducing the control interest rate, which supported the state finance policy. The majority agree with financial advisers that the legal code for government policy has proved its value. Now that the economic impact of the epidemic is under way, it becomes a matter of continuation of public economic policy and financial policies being in step with each other in measures to maintain stability and balance in the economy. Public management must be maintained as economic benefits continue to rise, while the late bat has increased in 2.75%, as before the pandemic. The basic values in the public financial law are guided here, especially on stability and sustainability. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to trace a new proposal made by a greater proportion of the budgetary committee on the contribution of a concierge proposal. Funding under budget for the year is 0.5% lower as a share of GDP than was expected in a bill for financial management, thus raising the need for loans. In addition, an increase of about 0.2% of GDP due to the extended pandemic measures is required this year. These two, together with a reevaluation of prices by the end of 2021 due to a higher than predicted inflation, lead to an earlier increase in the debt of state funds as a proportion of GDP. Therefore, the longer part makes a suggestion for a change in policy, which includes adaptation to this reality, with the maximum payoff of the State Fund and the total public public resources being increased by 0.5% of GDP by 2022. Thus, instead of being -6.0%, the maximum official house -6.5% of gross domestic product will be -6.0%. The target of the latter year's policy will remain unchanged. It is also suggested that the maximum government debt will be increased by 2% of GDP over the entire period of 20222526. This is based on what I previously mentioned about the less efficient recovery of the year 2022 and the reassessment of the debt of the state, by the end of 2021. This adaptation towards policy management in 2022 and the temporary extension of pandemic measures does not change the continued strategy of stopping the increase in debt ratio by the end of 2026 and weighing that the state's budget is having an impact on the economy. Finally, I pointed out that the more part would suggest that the proposal be accepted by the changes I have now followed and clearly. Under this heading, write why. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of the budgetary committee, Haraldur Benediktsson, Stefán Vagn Stefánsson, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Brontti Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, and Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. The vice president of the budget board for this story. I just wanted to ask that question right away. The vice president of the financier sees the Treaty as reflected in the financial policy under consideration here. This cheek comes not only from me but also from a financial body. This is mentioned in part by the review of the majority of the section, but it brings up the comment that comes from a financial body that maybe a sound and image is not exactly going together, at least There is a possibility that there is a systematic failure in the system, either to strengthen farms or to reduce expenses. As far as I'm concerned, there's a very clear politics in the state's budget on policy. The wealth of the state as a proportion of land production at the end of this period of policy has not been reduced in this century. All right, there's a certain political thing being fired, but it's just really hard to run the welfare politics that are offered in the government covenant under this frame. That's at least My experience and, in part, seems to be financial experience too. That is why I want to direct that question to why. The vice president is either interested in the two promises of a government contract or in strengthening the income of a government fund beyond what is being proclaimed in this financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and for drawing out at the beginning of this discussion these words that financial counsel did not see the government covenant reflected in its policy. I don't know how to say it, a respectable president, just a systematic mistake or some interpretation thing about how we're going to discuss financial policy for the next year and then I don't know how to say it, because the basic principle of this policy is that we're going to grow, and we're going to promote the economy here. The economy will grow. Then you need to keep in mind the question: How, then, will you do all that you say you will do in the government covenant? That's a question. A senator is about. With increasing economy, with more land production, the income will increase and will have to be associated with the improvements that have been put into most of the public infrastructure in recent years, and this is from the location of which we build our expenses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is nothing to say that with land production, it takes more dollars to achieve the same goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u66	The president reminds us of a short talk period because four senators have requested an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u67	Thank you. Vice President for the answer. However, I would like to point out the calculations that come directly from financial planning, and ASI has also noted that although we expect this period to increase by 10%, the calculation is that expenses will only increase by 0.7% during this period. ASI has suggested that it appears that the welfare system should be applied as an economic instrument. Hv. A vice president here noted that we were not going to make the investment a point for us there. Something will be left to give in this frame, i.e. On the thrift gate and the pay gate. So I'm referring to the fact that the calculations behind the box, which we'll certainly see developed right now in spring, whether the frame is bed enough to grasp all the promises that exist, in view of the fact that these are superabundant low amounts that are calculated from year to year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u68	A respectable president. As the economy grows and the production of the land grows, income stocks grow stronger. There'll be more crowns. That's why I said before in my first answer that we have to consider this in the context of the expansion that has become available to most of the people in recent years, and from that place, we are going to build. This does not mean, however, that there will not be any other task to achieve the policies of the government that are reflected in a government contract, a review of various systems, a project that may have run its course, and we will stop contributing funds or other factors that we want to do better, that we cannot achieve them by expanding our economy. But the basic point is this: The financial policy, the implementation of government, must be supported here in stability, must be supported here by growth, so that we can reach the goals we set for ourselves, including. about investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u69	President. I'm going to continue with this inquiry because I'm going to explain why. A pilot doesn't make it. According to the synopsis proposal, the actual growth of expenses will be in the period less than 1% a year at a government fund. It is the cost no matter what your income is based on the development of economic systems, etc. Still, we need to live up to the aging of a nation and other work that is listed as a challenge to the work of this synonym. And just the increases in expenses predicted by this Health Department, from 8% of GDP to 11% of GDP, are just enough for this 1% of expenses per year, the actual growth of expenses. Then it's all the rest, the aging of the nation, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u70	A respectable president. I can give this talk a few times if possible. A senator does not believe that the economy is growing, that we cannot achieve our goals in these incomes that we are going to make. He rightly mentions this calculation of physical growth. The actual growth of expenses is simply consistent with the predictions on which we base our policy. That's when it's gonna be. A senator also admits that we have increased expenses for most of these classes in recent years, and that is from where we are going. I just want to remind you, Mr. Honorable President that through this crisis we haven't cut government expenses. It is very important to keep that in mind when it comes to interpreting the future in a way that makes this a weakness, since we have weakened the income side. Not so, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u71	A respectable president. The last time we were dealing with this, about 2019, there was an opinion from a financial body that simply said that the economy of the state is not sustainable. There wouldn't be a question of self-sustaining back there. Something would have to be yielding. It says here in the report on the income side: in the coming years, there will continue to be improvements in the tax system, so that the government income supply is sufficient to cover its activities. And to the repercussive side, it is possible to ensure sustainable growth of the spending system should maintain the current well-being level. It's because it's actually recognized here that it's not exactly sustainable at the moment. Presumptuous tax growth in a nation's aging that affects both sensibility and health systems just enough for this 1%, to go to the calculated cost raise. Then there's the rest of it. That brings us beyond that growth, and we're in an inert model. And that is, for 2019, which was the peak of the filing, and we were just falling into what was supposed to be a soft landing. Although we can get back there, at one of the maximum levels after we've recovered from the grave created by Covid, it's still a spontaneous situation. How are we going to handle this financial policy - which I don't see having any income policy or spending policy, there are some words of challenges, etc. but no serious policy of what to do - to get rid of this insuficiency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u72	A respectable president. I just want to say that it's a good thing. A senator here noted that the aging of a nation and growing in that group is simply wrong. They predict, or predict, the development of the coming years of the time of this course is in it exactly as they are available. The economic situation was pulled up suddenly in 2019 and we don't have to trace it to any other reason here. We haven't said that the shock that took place in 2019 has not affected the government's affairs, but our main role in this unexpected crisis has been to protect our employment opportunities and companies, the people and their resources, and then to promote the institutions and systems we have added in recent years and throughout this crisis. Therefore, I reiterate, a respectable president: We are building up the work of the last term in this financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u73	A respectable president. As we shall remember, the Organization for Economic Policy was severely critical of financial policies and also of the budget for moving the debt problem to the next government and in effect fueling the inflation. And after I listen to a talk or two. I think it's a little bit of a trick for a senator. In 2019, as we have seen, the state funds had become insurmountable, and even if we get there, we still have to explain how we're going to make it sustainable. Now that inflation is growing, including Because government funds do not contribute to combat inflation, there is a reasonable rise in the demands that government funds will cover the damage caused by inflation. This is especially true because of a hostacle swelling of the housing market. Is the senator willing to increase the expenses of the state funds further to meet the precise demands of the labor movement in collective agreements? And if that is the case, how is this to be done? [[The president calls.]] Do you want to increase the angle or raise your income with economy or new taxes? And I'd also like to ask why. A senator: Will he require that the establishment of the government funds be in accordance with the government's inflation aim? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u74	The president reminds the speakers to respect the time of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u75	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. The senator was saying this inquiry. The senator standing here wants financialism to support the money level. It is the most sharp weapon we have to cope with increasing inflation; to show responsibilities in government matters. That is, in fact, the answer I can give during a financial discussion. We are not discussing financial or financial matters this time. Today, the causes of inflation do not need to be discussed with us in return or in brief discussions here on financial policies and issues. The budget will specifically discuss its meetings on the housing market and the main causes of the facility. About that question. A senator if I would like the government to provide certain conclusions in private matters, I will not be quick to comment. But the key point is: In financial policy, the big lines on goals and within those goals are that I think it would be best to stay in this economic stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u76	Madam President. Of course, it is not surprising to me, and it is unfair for me to expect a senator to be able to answer this when even a prime minister can make a clear plan about who the government's message will be in a dresser's speech. It may have been a little unfair of me to expect the senator to answer that question. But okay. They're talking about growing out of the problem. Now the increase has gone up, the dollar has grown stronger. How can you tell? A member of the export work force supports the fact that we can grow out of the problem when inflation is the way it is, and growth has grown much higher than has been in the standards of our competitive countries, and especially when the competitiveness of our industry has become lax when the gang of the kroner has grown so much? How can you tell? A senator that enables us to support the export branches in this way? Where and how, then, will we grow out of the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u77	A respectable president. One major factor in growing is the insuficiency of state funds and the demand of state funds for loans. Therefore, in 2026 I think that the goal of stopping debt is fundamental to how we view the development of a growing level in this country. I would also like to remind you, more dignified President that today's branch interest level is similar to that or that at the beginning of the crown virus, it is now no higher than this time. It is then the role of the state's budget and financial partnership in the money policy and the role of the National Bank to keep the balance that the dollar is not too stable, so it makes it difficult for other businesses. It is the balance that may include. There must be a clear view of government conditions. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u78	A respectable president. Hv. The vice president of the budget board has here rejected the view of a financial body that there is a certain discrepancy between a government contract and a financial policy. In the opinion of a financial body, it puts it puts it puts it puts it: the Treaty often uses words that promote, strengthen, and improve. These indicate an increase in expenses. In this financial policy, however, total spending is expected in the years to come. We're talking about actual growth rate per year to be maintained somewhere around 0.7%. That's why I want to ask you why. Council: When it comes to a government contract to strengthen and improve, when it comes to building transport wood, when it comes to improving the rights of the social security system, increasing the service to children, is it being talking about anything other than building roads, increasing the set of places to work down the list of waitings, or improving the quality of the public security system? What, then, is this? What does that mean? A senator of those words in the government covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u79	A respectable president. In recent years, the unpredictable growth of Kingdom spending should be a major subject or serious concern. Once we have improved in the way we have done in recent years, it is essential that we make the most of our money at any given time. And when we talk about expanding and improving, I especially want to make the statement that we want to make more use of it. Hv. In this connection with transportation, a senator brings up the matter. The Government Treaty speaks of new ways to sustain transport, whether it is the establishment of a land - building organization or mixed transport funding. In this respect, I want to go. A senator makes it clear that the Treaty's statement to improve and improve, make better use of the money, seek other ways, and thus grow in that way too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u80	A respectable president. Here on this discussion is why. A senator who is deeply preoccupied with the past may not want to talk about the future and the promises of this financial policy, this document. I want to ask you why. Councilman: What exactly will this spending; real growth of expenses every year up to 0.65% in the period? 2023 placed226, translated for public welfare? What is this going to mean, e.g. for the children whose forwards depend on their campaigns around, XBs for children, etc.? Okay, that's where we got answers about the roads. It will be solved by private accounting effects, something that left green used to be very cryptic in the old days. But what will this mean for public welfare services, and what will this mean for public investment in general, not just transport projects, but public investment in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u81	A respectable president. I don't want to use accounting effects in this relationship simply because the demand for successful transport also makes them interesting products for money that need to be put on the job. Where's the hold-up gonna land? I'd just like to reiterate it, Mr. Honorable President, that we're coming out of an unprecedented budget interest, and in financial policy, it's not being announced. This has been foretold for growth. It's called cessation of debt. That's the direction we're talking about here. So it is completely misjudgment in my mind, a respectable president, that there will be some surgery and special maintenance measures with some individual government systems. I refuse that offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u82	A respectable president. I recommend committee party 1 reduces part of the Congress resolution on government financial policy. We would have been discussing this in November before we agreed on a budget, which may be another matter and may have to do with government laws. From the last crisis, the word has thought - provoking developments in our well - being society for 14 years. The 2008 crisis experience helped to explain the importance of keeping society going despite the difficult state of government. The global lesson was precious. Surge is not a way out of a crisis. Superficial bills on the financial side cannot be the pioneers of decision-making after such a big conflict in society. There are debts in more places than in the official books of the State. What kind of association do young people and future generations need to include? Where are we saved to reduce accounting debt, and what does it mean to save for generations of balance and burden and opportunity for future generations? In recent years understanding has increased the impact of cutbacks, how aging infrastructure - both material and social - reduces the ability of people to move ahead, reduces the effectiveness of people, and thus weakens the foundation on which society is on. How the so - called difficulty in making decisions in delinquency or investment can actually be unsurpassed decisions. When the crown - virus epidemic struck in Iceland, there was a debate about the angle of state funds and accounting debts immediately in control. All the talk was about the financial breakdown that fell on the treasure. However, their discussion has nearly always been followed by additional evidence that the response to this crisis is completely different from the last time a cut has been taken, but it is now being given - we heard the last time - investors in the economy and defend the welfare system. But is that so? Sometimes we seem to forget where we are in the process because we are still standing in the storm's eye, although the virus itself has become weaker. After the last crisis, you see, a wealth was thrown from a sledgehammer for six years. In 2008/2013, the collection of state funds was 36% of domestic product. In view of the current government strategy, a government fund will be fired at a angle of seven years from the first year of the crown crisis and a gathering of more than 30% of the land's produce. It's nothing like that. It is not obvious from these statistics that although we are sailing into the third year of this financial crisis, and here will be a limp for the next few years, no cutting will take place and will not be happening right now. In shock management, you may find it easier to hide big political decisions about the community's underlying business because there's no time to talk about the real politics that is at all. The government's budget, previously fired for six years after the last crisis, was higher than is thought to develop in this crisis. At the same time, however, there was a significant cutout, especially at the end of that period, and during the years that followed, where there was a struggle to bring back a positive financial supply and that rapidly. You see, the underlying economic and social politics show over the next few years, not during the first years of the crisis. The difficult decisions are not necessarily taken in the reaction, since reaction to politics is more spontaneous. You will now see who are naked when discussing the foundation, systems, and the future. The definition of the existing government that this is a permanent government has been widely accepted. Repercussion, hold, nothing changes - but I don't agree with that. You see, real changes have been made in recent years, gradual changes in the power of this government, which has largely gone by the common people. The problem is that we often overrated the extent to which we can have in a year or two, even in terms of terms, but underestimate how much changes can take place over a decade. It is now nearly a decade since the state of the Independence Party and the forwards began in 2013 and that economic government has been ruling ever since. The face of the government has changed, but the fact is that those who govern the economic, financial, control the welfare issues. Not all changes cost money, but real changes won't happen if people don't know how economic politics is fired. And that politics has been the right politics to become a decade. As a result of these gradual changes, they are becoming manifest. The apartment market is not connected with social needs. The health system is run on patches, short-term funds, since the foundation has been reduced to the rhythms of the state's financial politics for the past decade. It is about to reach a climax as we pass another year at a time in which the jaws grow between microbubbles and people in a general labour market. The money doesn't look like it. During the years that follow, the balance of the state's budget is persistent, but the underlying causes are rarely mentioned. You see, there's a systematic failure. As early as this year, the expenses of the state's budget as a share of land production are only lower than the average between 2016 and 2019 when the state's funds were reaching calmer seas after the 2008 crisis. Since 2019 we have been in the Korean epidemic, with the subsidies on our backs since the last and last government, have gathered climatic debts, and have not yet repaired holes in our welfare system, but government spending as a percentage of the economy this year will still be less on average than between 2016 and 2020. Thus, at the end of the forecasting period, 2026, the Kingdom Fund is not because no ties have been made to expenses. On the contrary, the cost will be 29% of the country's production, the lowest in the century, and the same if your communities are added. Why, then, is there a limp until 2026? It's the income side that's broken. That aspect is spoken of only in connection with the government's aim to lower taxes. In fact, the goal is never really in relation to what is considered a normal level of income to remain in the norse welfare states, let alone whether this country has some small burden because of the need for a more populous structure, such as larger countries. The current governments predict low incomes for the next few years, and 2026 will be the lowest in this century, in 28%. If we take the income of a local partner, the government will make 39% 2026, and unless we count the first two years after the 2008 financial crisis, this will be the lowest percent in the century. What Is the Cause? On one hand, there is a fundamental change in government income, tax decline, and decrease in product and services. Instead of subsiding the tax burden, there is a clear decrease in income compared with the economy. It's just the politics of some categories, okay? But the problem is, as I told you earlier, when trying to run a welfare state that is comparable to the Norwegian countries under such a political policy. A financial body points out this in its review of financial policy. This can also be seen in the reference to the People's Association and the BSRB. According to a financial agency, the underlying result in 2019 had already become negative about 2.2% of land production. Thus, the state's attitude over the period of this financial policy is far from under the influence of the crowning era. A financial adviser notes: "Between your income or reduce your expenses. " However, the latter does not seem to be in harmony with the Treaty of the current government, and it is clear from reading of the financial policy that the government's budget for the next few years is out of harmony with today's lawsuit. It is sailed under a false cry of well - being. The terms of government officials, the text of a government covenant, and the figures displayed in government financial policy also call attention to this in precisely this discrepancy. It is said that there is a lack of harmony between a government covenant and a policy. In this context, a comment on the same financial advice on the importance of the fact that the policy of public finances is realistic. The review, with the permission of the president, shows that it would be preferable to draw together political and financial emphasis to clearly indicate how governments have planned to enforce their policies for the next four years. As evidence of the miscalculation between the Treaty and financial policy, there is evidence to form into financial instruments that indicate that the estimated actual growth in financial policy will be 2.6% during this period, 2022 Guy26, while the economy grows by 10%, 0.7% actual growth per year. The Common Union points out that there is no discussion in policy-making of the annual real - life expansion of 0.7% in terms of public welfare. It states that, by permission of the President: In general, public expenses increase, although the service level remains unchanged, e.g. due to increases in pay. It is difficult to see how such low cost growth can depend on the welfare system, so there is evidence that such growth can result in impairment. And also it says, with the permission of President ASI: A financial policy report shows that increasing the maintenance over the next few years is aimed at reducing the expansion of the economy. The review of income and remuneration policy clearly shows that there will be an increase in maintenance of the spending side primarily. This means that the maintenance of policy depends on the use of the welfare system as the main economy. This is totally out of harmony with the speech of the government covenant, which suggests that a major interest in welfare is being taken up. This political party of policy, which is often set up as some technatric document, is important because debt and survival rules must always be placed on the basis of government policy that needs to be clear. What kind of role are we going to have in the economy? You see, it is totally unclear what will be involved in the framework of this financial agenda for us in a financial programme. Public financial laws should promote stability and self-sufficiency in business. It is the result and the total debt. The financing of finance policy is that the increase in government debt is the proportion of land production stop in 2026. It is also stated that this year's production will result in a reduction in specific support for individuals and businesses. However, this report does not address the imbalance that exists in the economy, which literally prevents the growth capacity of the economy over time and thus makes it very difficult for the public to keep the debt ratio self-sustained. It's just a matter of subtracting the support of the government on the economy, controlling the expression in the economy, but no discussion on how to prioritize money during the period in order to reduce the present imbalance. It is clear to all that property elevations have produced imbalances, as well as a group of people especially experience the aftereffects of this virus. There is an abundance of inflation, and it is clear that the nature of government spending will be crucial in the coming years. In spite of this, there seems to be no work going on within the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to identify the potential impacts of individual spending systems and such priorities of tasks and funding to reduce economic instability. In fact, analysis of the government's new releases has been published as a majority of the legal committees agreed between Christmas and New Year, indicating that there was a very poor priorities. This refers to the decision All Work That Added 7 billion U.S. at the base of the state funds and is one of the reasons why this financial policy had to be revised before returning to the council a few weeks after it was submitted. Here, a greater proportion of financial and economic legal committees went on to agree to provide a financial impact on the economy and to add to the inflation and thus reduce the scope to counter another imbalance in the economy. It is then stated in financial policy that stopping debt ratios is necessary to build up space in order to meet increased expenses for predictable demographic change. The report shows that less economic growth will remain the same as the rest of the tax and the amount of expenses that the State can spend on the long term. This calls for a lower growth and aging of a nation's population on increased expenses. Such long - term changes are concluded by the need for a linking the increase in the debt of the government and making room for the future. This link also shows that the composition of government income is likely to change because the tax burden is moving and changing. It will, as indicated in the report, move from pay to consumption, where income-based taxes grow more slowly than the population with relatively fewer labour markets. It is very interesting to see this presentation, as is the case with cold facts. In the first place, waste taxes are completely different from pay taxes because they are flat. By nature, they are inclined to reduce social equality because they burden people on low incomes. It appears, then, that the government is proclaiming a fundamental change in the tax system, which is inequated without any harm. Second, there is no mention of any other type of taxes, such as property taxes, in spite of international discussions over increased property balance rather than income balances. It is interesting, then, that taxes on money are not addressed as in a government contract. This is just another example of a government deal and the strategy of this government simply don't go together. Reevaluation of financial policy after changes in financial law were made for 2022 C.E., an assessment of the state's debt status before a New Year's Day. It was then noted that there were 2% added to the financial level. This year's recovery is getting worse by about half of the gross domestic product, including For the expenses that were now added between Christmas and New Year. In the financial and economic cases, the result was reported to be at a rate of 14 billion. There would be an additional 9 billion of these, which would be a permanent increase over the period. This is the change now into suggestions. This is approximately 0.3% of GDP. Despite these changes that occurred at the end of the study, the recovery or debt status are not expected to get worse in the years to come, i.e. ... afterthisyear. What does that mean? Yes, this is a built - in canal of 9 billion, which is now being added to the government's post - administration box, unless it becomes more tax returns during the period and something is changing to that direction. There is no discussion, however, of the plans for financial policy, and it was also shown in a conversation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that the implementation of the remuneration measures on the pay and income side would not be made until the next spring financial programme. In this context, it is worth calling attention to the fact that in the last financial program that appeared nearly a year ago, which foretold maintenance measures throughout the period, however, no reference was made. So I have high hopes that we will see a change in budget. In fact, financial advisers may say that it is wrong to conclude that in the last financial programme, there has been a failure to take positive action, but it has been stated without a disintegration of what it would be done. It was noted that measures may be evenly distributed between budget and income gates, but not in what way. A financial adviser makes a comment on this and says that the presentation of financial policy is the same today, but there must be some evidence that the financial and economic authorities are showing the cards on the importance of financial management now. However, the review of the financial Council makes it very clear that there is no need to leave this behind. It would have been quite possible in financial policy to give a clearer consideration to the context of the tax system change, high - quality economic growth, and income development plans, which were simply released. Then there's the investment. I think we'll take seriously the comments that have been published by sources of information, including financial advisers, who are concerned about the economic investment level in the coming years and even came up with the opinion of the greater part. The review of the financial board suggests that the fund base in this country is considered lower than in most of the countries we compare with. It is important that property is not overdone on the public balance sheet - these are our generations' debt - and it is clear that there is a need for development and maintenance in many places. Although a political agreement includes promises of construction and investment projects - and note that these are comments from a financial body - they do not seem to be clearly reflected in financial policy. It was also shown in the financial Council that using investments in the economy has simply not been successful. The task started slowly, and the danger would be that when they finally left, there would be a complete investment in other parts of the economy. In this context, it seems clear in my opinion that seriously considering the need to revise the laws on public financial matters in this country, such as investments. The European Union is now studying the so-called "golden rule" in its guidelines on public finances, where it is thought to separate investments from calculations of the state's debt and resources rules so that space allows for building up after a year-long period of investment, but also prevents the introduction of investments and basic development of the Vikings during times of recovery, i.e. a release from the idea that investment is a good economy, in view of its toughness. At the end of this election period, the financial rules that could be broken by considerable weight fall back. It could take on a public investment, so, in my opinion, a serious examination of a similar golden rule should take place in Iceland. Finally, I'd like to come into the company's position only because they also agree with this financial policy. The disinvestment involved here is not just in the state, the problem is, in fact, much worse at the state level. Despite a substantial improvement in the ratings and debt of the state funds from the last financial plan, and with what we see in the financial policy, the situation in rural society is just wrong. Since the last figures came out and the balance of debt has deteriorated there. Investors, which have dropped a significant proportion of land production in rural areas, all suggest that the current financial policy discussed here today is expected to reduce the investment rate to 2026. It's coming even. to support the underdevelopment of the unit management phase after the transfer of projects over the years from country to rural society without contributing capital support. For example, a group of disabled people who were transferred from 2012/2013 to a rural state and analysis have pointed out that it lacks about 9 billion dollars. The investment of rural society has historically been about 1.9% of land production, but it will be at the end of the period of this policy by 1.2% of national production. This difference of 0.7% is 20 billion k. today. Thus, the lack of financial resources in the case of disabled persons could be said to explain about half of this investment. At least it is clear that in this context, underdeveloped capitalism has affected the investment capacity of the local communities, and other lawsuits could certainly be counted. This is a type of cuts on the back door of a government fund, where litigators are transferred to rural teams to clean the table of the state's funds and improve the living position but, in turn, reduces the ability of rural partners to move forward. This is particularly serious in view of the fact that the division of rural communities to improve their income is limited because income stocks are few, in contrast with state funds, and where possible, they find it more difficult to obtain financial resources than government funds. A respectable president. In the end, I want to wonder what politics are all about. The report on financial policy shows that in the face of problems that regularly fall and are more frequent than previously, it is even more important that the State has enough financial strength to meet the challenges. It is noteworthy in this context that no further discussion is made on how to develop the official systems, economic policy, work market interaction, and private sector, in order to reduce the incidence of such events. That no comment is made on the state's conduct in the community and will attack the underlying imbalance rather than the defence of the state. Thus, a sustainable concept of the law on public finances is expressed primarily in this financial policy as a basis for financial support. Emphasis is that accounting is good rather than strengthening the ability of the economy, society, and the State to deal with the future. They need to invest in a system less sensitive to the events. You need to move forward rather than be defensive as a response to these big social issues. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to read up a joint declaration of 1, 2 and 3, which will be followed by an audience officer on the Committee, Guðbrandur Einarsson: There is a consistent agreement between the Treaty and the budget of the budgetary budget. There is no evidence of an increase in public service and a powerful welfare system. Much growth in prosperity is out of harmony with the government's framework for the next four years. The financial policy is all about challenges, but it does not contain any political solutions. It is essential in the context that the next financial programme, which will be published later in spring, includes political policy measures related to the action clearly under attack over the next few years, in relation to the framework that the government has adopted by financial policy. Public financial laws expect transparent and realistic development of plans and realize that the government cannot bring wealth into the next financial programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk, which reflected a certain political reality, which may simply be the best testimony to why the government puts out this policy. A senator recommends other emphasis and policy. I just think it's nice that we play such a straight game in these matters. There are a few things where I just agreed well with the emphasis. A senator, e.g. The problem of using investments as an economic tool. That's exactly the mail we're addressing in our committee party. However, we have experienced the challenge of increasing our investment that, as we might mention, it has been a tenacious lava to get them to work. That's why there's absolutely reason to look at these processes, I'd like to agree, and then how we handle the public investment on the financial rules. It's exactly this mail we're pointing at. On the other hand, what I disagree with is what I do. In her speech, a senator mentioned that the appearance has improved from a financial program during spring, or when we submitted it to springtime. Because there is more growth in the economy than we anticipated, there is a need for maintenance that was not set out, such as in winter. A senator named, now a much less pain. My main point is this: There is only political emphasis here. We need to look to the extra or more reforms we have made on our major systems and accept the discussion from there. I just want to let it lie here before you know it. A senator answering last year's objection, whether or not it's at the point we're going to discuss the financial policy and not break it out of context with what we've done in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u84	President. Yes, thank you. A senator. Vice President of the budget board, for the question. I'm glad to hear that we can agree that there is a possibility of reviewing official financial regulations regarding investments. I think it is very important that we look to exactly what is happening in a international Bible. In fact, if I understand this correctly, where we're coming from, that we need to look into the context there: the fact is, as if I only mentioned earlier, that since 2019 we've had all sorts of problems that we have to work out, we've been in the crowning season, and we're still on our backs since the last and last government. We also, as I said before, have gathered climate debt. So we're dealing with the fact that for the past 10 years, there has been a gaping between disability and public employment markets. These are expensive changes. The difference between my politics and the political that's practiced in the middle of nowhere. A senator may be the only person who wants to talk about things the way they are. It's gonna cost money. We make a covenant between our community and the need to run a welfare system, that people pay for insurance. What bothers me is this host of welfare they're setting up. If people want to run politics, where we don't want to have the resources, the Norse welfare systems, well. But if the system is being advertised as such and not financed as already known, there was a lot of things we were going to earn after the last crisis, then it's just wrong. So it's my experience that there's been a lot of things, yes, that had to be improved after our last crisis, 2019, when we landed in this situation, and so you can't say that it had nothing -- that the foundation we were growing in was nice. I think most people in this room know exactly what's been talking about here for years at the cost of money; social security systems, investments, and that's even Established in a government contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u85	A respectable president. I think there's a reason why we're better aware of the discussion of these thresholds that have been discussed in this discussion because it reflects so well the fundamental difference between how this government and the government in the past reacted to a crisis. When we're at the time defending our welfare systems, maintaining the spending level we've built up in recent years, we're not making new ones. However, there is much to be done, and I agree entirely with it. Senator. Once again, political emphasis in these discussions is really just crystalting. But the point in the speech of which. A chairman of the 1 strategist, a smaller section of the budget board, which I just want to put my mind around, and I related in the background here, that the main incentive for the inflation today is the housing market. I also said in my presentation, a respectable president, that a financial committee will be working in the days ahead, perhaps discussing the housing market and the situation there. But I'd like to remind them and kind of leave behind. A senator in my second inquiry to her story that in recent years, the state funds have probably never contributed as much or as much money to housing as they have done in recent years. Why, then, are conditions in the housing market the way it is? I'm not gonna hang the blame for anyone in this situation. I have previously said in this sermon that there are many factors that work together. That's why I want to deepen my discussion about this show. What are the reasons, and who are the solutions, in the great problem we face in a housing market? Not that there is a lack of expenses from a government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and would like to first point out that this comparison with the last crisis - as I said earlier in my speech: We are not there. We are in the third year of possibility - in fact, we are still in the storm's eye when it comes to this. It was a limp for six years after the last crisis, 36% of the gross domestic product we paid for it. If it's a measure, a limp for years, how well we're handling our economy, then we don't know where we are there because it's just like a limp that's being proclaimed right now. The difficult decisions were yet to come. They weren't in the reaction. They're in the rush of trying to get us out of this, and maybe that's the political difference, that I'm thinking that we don't have the time to work this thing out. That doesn't mean we should just spend on something, but that means we should be aware of how fast we should get out of the situation. In terms of the housing situation -- now I have a minute left, we really need to have a special discussion about this -- I think it's entirely possible that this is just a result of an economic politics that has been fired here for the past 25 years, I'd say. In effect, the facility has been divided by governments. This is not measured by the fact that several billion fit into the housing system. In this context, for example, the less than 4 billion people who enter the overall apartment system are basically just the value of what was paid for compensation, of rising prices, of inflation last year. This is not the amount in the big picture. We're talking about today's social facility is about 5% of the country's housing area. At one time, before the workers'farm system was shut down, it was 111⁄212%. You can't talk about a substantial amount in this context. $450 billion. is another number, mortgages added to their homes. We are talking about 51⁄210 billion to create an out - of - date system. I just refuse that these matters have been done a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u87	The law on government finance discusses official financial policies. When starting a new government, bring up financial policies that contain a set of boundaries. Each spring, it shall provide a financial programme for the next five years and shall include the programme within the financial policy framework. At the beginning of the fall council, the minister adds a bill to the budget, which should be in accordance with financial agenda objective. As a result, financial policy forms the framework within which the government has to live. A General Assembly has already changed the standard of government financial policy by agreeing to the budget before financial policy is implemented. This is much less than ideal, ending financial policy making up the frameworks that budgets need to be filled at each time. Clearly, the procedures that the law draws up assumes a election for the Council in the spring but not in the autumn. In addition, the General has set aside a law on public finance because of the economic effects of a pandemic. At the same time, the General has entrusted financial councils to determine whether government's declared objective of government government affairs and their escort will enable them to return to debt. The proposed proposal suggests that the rate of growth should be stopped by one year from a current financial policy. It is the point of current financial policy, that the rate of growth will be cut off for about one year. I just want to talk about who's in financial policy. A new government began ruling in the fall, and it was on the basis of a government covenant. There should be a strong grip on financial policy, but it is not found in financial policy, i.e. The political treaty, which is the basis for this government, does not appear in financial policy. If you read the Treaty and then the financial policy, you cannot see that it is the same government that has this financial policy and that makes the government covenant. A financial body has turned in its opinion of a proposal for financial policy and explained it at a meeting of the legal committee. The Council considers the policies under consideration to meet the requirements of law on public finances, yet the red cord on the matter of criticism of the policy and policy of the government remains. The Council points out that there was a lack of agreement between financial policy and government contracts. The policy puts all emphasis on growing out of the problem while the government's treaty contains promises to raise Kingdom funds. Then, financial advice reiterates its warnings of any moral problem that may arise in governments at any time and how unfortunate it is to delay difficult action until the election is over. I would like to quote directly from the financial council, by permission of the president: There is no agreement between a government contract and financial policy. Governments have proclaimed that the economy will grow to prosperity with a positive effect on the survival and debt of the public. Their views are not directly referred to in donated financial policy and are not in the spirit of baseline transparency. This means you're reading the government contract and then reading financialism, and you don't know what's going on. This financial policy is clearly achieved by economists at the Ministry of Economics and, actually, when you read the law, you might wonder if it should not just change the name of this document. You might think it's just a financial attitude at the Ministry of Economics, something like that. The only thing in this record is that they're supposed to grow out of the problem, and that's government policy. According to this policy, and the Qualifications of Article 7. the law on government finance will reach its maximum debt in 2026, followed by 49.5% of GDP (VLF) in 30% over four years. Thus, the policy under consideration enables us to expect a historical advantage while covering the next government on that difficult task. In other words, the problem is to be addressed later, the next government after this election. The underlying problem should then be handled, not over the next four years. A financial adviser points out that if the rate of debt cannot be halted by 2026, long-term confidentiality of public financial policies may be delayed. If you read this financial policy, it is absolutely crystal clear that this is not an underlying problem. That's not what they're doing. We're getting out of Covid and all that's supposed to happen is to stop the growth of the debt ratio by 2026 and everything else is supposed to happen by itself. It is wish that economic prospects will improve in the coming years and that this course will continue to be controlled so that debt can be stopped at the specified time. However, the latest statistics raise uncertainty as to whether they will follow up. Intensification has increased significantly beyond inflation forecasts, and detection agents believe that products and housing prices will increase further in the next few years. If the inflation is not managed, it is difficult to see that the policy presented here can work. The government needs to give a clear answer on the income side if we are to stop the debt collection and set up a budget. We need long-term positive income resources, such as increased resource resources, in line with the profit of the marine resource, instead of constantly resorting to single-change measures, such as the sale of commercial property. We cannot rely on another such guest to take over, such as by the introduction of tourism in the wake of the crash. We were lucky in the wake of the collapse that the tourists began arriving in Iceland at the gang crash. There was no policy. There was no government policy. It was because there was a gang crash, Iceland was a cheap country, it came to the island's glacier and we were good at soccer, we woke up world attention, and the world is always shrinking and shrinking, and the tourists decided to come. I just want to mention the chapter on financial policies and the comments of financial policy itself, so I'm sure we can be sure of the policy. Well, if you want to know what it's like to take it, you read about a business policy. This is how it starts, with the President's permission: The balance of revenue depends on political goals, as well as on economic prospects and challenges at any particular time. I thought, after reading a law on public financial matters and after taking a seat on a financial committee, that policy and income policy should be presented here. But if I read this chapter, it's not like that. If I read on, with President's permission, the same paragraph says: ▪ There are many factors to consider in the shape of policy, which directly affects the benefit of people and businesses. The policy must promote efficient and righteous tax systems as well as support for economic stability. It's not a policy, it's just being talked about policy. Our policy has to be shaped, not like that. That's what this is all about. But the whole chapter goes outside to talk about what is to be done, not what will be done. It's talking about who the real policy is, but not what it contains. That's what this is all about. So goes on, with President's permission: ▪ In a way that does not have a negative or discouraging effect, the telecommunications need to be promoted to the most prosperous and valuable things. Yes, thank you. Everybody knows this. Everyone knows that this is what income needs to be done. But what's the tax policy? Who is she? It just doesn't show up here. Thus, with the permission of a president, the President says: "Depending ahead are many challenges to tax matters and will be taken into account by the tax policy. When I read this, I thought, " Wait, don't IRS? ' I thought so. I took the law on public financial matters directly, read 4th. Article 2, of how financial policy should be divided into factors, and in number 2, it says: ▪ Generator on how to meet baseline levels 2 mg. Section 6. will be followed, both in terms of the development of the paying and in tax policy and in other government revenues. The financial policy is talking about what it will be like, the ahead of which are many challenges to the tax business, and the tax policy will take into account the cost. I'm an emissary from the IRS. I can't wait to see her. I just have to say right now. But these are promises that she will come in the future, for it is not to be seen when you read this, that she is in financial policy. It isn't, and it's exactly what they say when you read the words. The course also states, by permission of the President: A positive inducer will be used to facilitate green solutions in conjunction with emissions of greenhouse gases. The government's targets for losing emissions require continued review of a rule-making process. It is stated in the Government Treaty that there should be a policy in the world's climate. But we haven't met the Kyoto Convention yet, we won't, and we definitely won't be meeting the Paris Convention. We need to buy billions of climatic dishes so that we can live up to commitments there. Still, we are going to be the best in the world. So I advertise the tax policy and it's part of the revenue policy, I guess, there's a new chapter in the future. But that's how it is. There's no policy. It's called financial policy, it's about pay policy and revenue, but it's not. ASI points out that economicism accounts for 2.6% of the interest rates at policy time, or 0.7% per year, at the same time as the economy grew by 10%. It is difficult to see how such low cost growth can rest with the welfare system. And it's the right thing to say in a speech earlier about the welfare system, it's called the Icelandic welfare system, but it's not really, and it's financial policy. I quote here in the review of ASI, the National Association of Iceland, which I believe has a very good review. By permission of the president, it says: The Common Union believes that the financial policy proposed does not provide a basis for social stability and, therefore, stability in a labour market. The policy is not in harmony with the government's plans as stated in a government contract. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. - The centre includes increasing maintenance over the years, with the aim of reducing the expansion of the economy. The level of revenue and remuneration that are offered clearly shows that there will be an increase in maintenance primarily on the spending side and therefore represent an incision in the welfare system. With regard to financialism, little less is involved, the welfare system is to be used as an economy. This is where expenses should be reduced and not to consider the pay gate in any way. Yeah, they're selling Iceland Bank. It's a business payment. However, it is not to consider paying for the welfare of the Norwegian welfare system. The ASI words can be taken into consideration. Fundamental subsidies remain in many fields, and the system has not increased in accordance with population growth. The waiting list problem is unsolved. The flow issue is unsolved. Since the last budget did not expect the actual physical growth of the Land Hospital, his business is subsidized this year. I'm sure we'll see that in budgets at the end of the year. If this policy is laid to the foundation, it would appear that the actual growth of public service for the remainder of the term period will not be taken into account. All emphasis is placed on growing out of the problem, but there is no room for physical growth in public service, even cumulative physical growth. It's coming in very handy in its review. The ability to rely on society is to make a success of it, if the inflation consumes all its benefits as well. History has repeatedly proved that discipline in government matters is the best weapon against inflation. The current policy, suggesting that difficult action be delayed, is not a sign of fictitious practices, as it is stated. That project awaits the next government and the next financial policy. If we are to master the inflation and pool of debt, we need to take action much earlier. If we are to grow out of the problem, governments need to introduce measures that may lead to further growth. We need to work out the housing problem and find ways to increase investment in the overall housing system and increase the supply on property. We need to increase the supply of electricity to speed up energy exchange and create new opportunities for domestic production. Invested in the future by improving our educational and health systems. These are things that the government must put first if we are to grow out of the problem. If this financial policy is to be held out as unlikely, the government must demonstrate practical measures to counteract the effects of inflation, to promote real growth, and to stop debt. I would like to discuss some points that should be discussed in financial policy. The investment level is too low. It was noted in the previous talk that it is difficult to use investments as an economic tool. You're absolutely right, and I hope we discuss it on a budget committee. I believe this is also linked to other government plans. I can take as an example a transport plan, a funeral plan, and others, and I haven't considered it specifically yet, but I just feel that they're so involved. I would feel that it was right, and it is part of that discussion, to have transportation policies as well as transportation plans, similar arrangements as we have under the civil law. We would have a transport policy and then a transport plan, just as we have financial policy and then a financial plan. So I hope we can pay for all of this in financial terms. But it is very important to have the big vision, see the goal ahead, and then plan how we will achieve it. This is fundamental in transport and the investment plans we will have in the future, and we already have, i.e. to keep the vision clear and she'd have to be on the move. I haven't examined these plans thoroughly since I'm a new senator, but it seems to be, and I know that Icelandic operating systems have a problem in implementing and sticking to them. There's a problem. We live a bit much now in Iceland, and as Halldór Laxness said at the time: it always goes on somehow. I can state that I am very optimistic about the future of Covid, and I have no doubt that there will be an Icelandic economy. But it's just a question of how and also how we want to have a community. A few weeks ago, the executive director SA spoke of the need for us to import 30,000 people to do business, including travel services. This refers to the people's aging, a measure of a burdensome health problem. It will certainly increase expenses, but as far as the nation's relative aging is concerned, it is very simple to have a foreign labor force to correct that range, there will be more working hands by importing people who will prevent there from losing income. What it's all about is that we have to decide for ourselves. Let's just want to be a low-paying country where tourism is the biggest industry, it's all about travel services, as it was all about the seabed in its time. Then they went right up to the bank manager. In the past, the layman went to the senator, who went to the bank manager, who walked to the island to survive the fish industry. Is the economy in Iceland to be the sole focus of tourism? We need to build up a real knowledge industry, get into knowledge economy, and get out of a resource economy to keep people educated in Iceland. That's what financial policy is supposed to do. We have to decide. It should take the steps, step by step toward the knowledge economy. There are well - known formulas for how to do this, and it's just to sit down and decide to do it and set a policy about it. There's another point about the housing situation that's not mentioned much during financial policy, but I think it's very important. The smaller portion contributed 3.5 billion in the establishment of a government fund to increase the production and supply of housing, and it is extremely important that this be done. I also don't think the mortgage would fit in with inflation bills. Another thing I'd like to establish is the financial community and in my short time on a budget committee, and I've thought about it a little, and I've read about it, and I actually know it only from my previous job at the Organizational Institute, but the rural society that a management system has to take over. The government can also not be transporting projects to rural society that are beyond their control and if income stocks are not involved. It's a system that needs a counter-imaging review. There are too many of them. Too many of them. This is part of the economy and should be discussed in financial policy. Unfortunately, this is not the subject of financial policy, and I think that's too bad. But that doesn't change the fact that I advertise tax policy and, as a matter of fact, a pay policy. I think this document, financial policy, is all too widely said, political policy is not involved. The policy is, in fact, that the debt should be reduced by 2026, but there will be elections first, and it will be the task of a new government to make those difficult decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. You see, I agree with what. A senator says that it may not appear to be there directly, but there is a powerful force, which, however, is still very political. The rate of real-effective growth of year-years is a kind of spending policy. This is far under the interest of the coming years, and this is in fact a very fast holdup for expenses. People talk about thawing, worry about inflation. There are other ways to deal with it. It's the income side in that context. We certainly do not know how this will be manifested. There's talk of a good foundation of 2019, but I wanted to set it up for a bit. An increase of 0.7% in real life, as I said before, 20 billion. The language category of disabled people lacks half this amount. So if this government was going to fix, for example. to this category of litigators and to compensate for ablation at the country level of 10 billion have gone. There are 10 billion left each year to enforce all of the government's policies, and less is even mentioned of raises. So I would like to ask that question. The senator will agree with me to the lack of speech these days in the government of action, counter-improvement when it comes to inflation and growth, for example, will be pressured. in secret in the fall and thereby expands the wealth of the state to enforce this financial policy. Is this lack of speech today and unwilling to escape this challenge not to work against the financial stability policy over the next few years? There is no doubt that we will have very little space if we are to respect this course, 10 billion. Where is this going to end?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u89	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What I suspect about the cost policy, as well as the tax policy, is that the government doesn't want to show on the cards for any future agreements. It is quite arranged that the upcoming labour agreements will be difficult, and then the government will have to take action on the spending side, which is not listed in financial policy. I believe that there is really a core reason for this, that there must be peace in the labour market and that, in fact, the financialism, economicism, will appear that matters. I think it's about the expenses and the maintenance that doesn't fit in because we're going to run a welfare community. I think the concept of a welfare community is used here in fakes, and it doesn't fit in with the state fund. Like what? A senator came to the expense of the welfare system, expenses, support of the system. And I can't see it in a tax policy or in a pay policy. It could be that there's a playdown in the upcoming bargains.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. That's what I'm worried about today. We saw to it that last year's financial expenses were due only to inflation and pressure, on the one hand, pay pressure, while borrowing inflation was high to 15 billion. I mention these figures in this context because people are talking about some real-time increase in expenses as if there was a sign of expansion in the economy. Economic growth per year under normal conditions is 2.5◯3%. We're talking about 0.7%. 10 billion if we are going to adjust the situation to a class of disabled people. Fifteen billion accidentally paid last year. I would like to direct that general question to why. A senator whether he can agree with me in an analysis of the developments that have taken place in the federal affairs, the affairs of the government, and the political states in the past decade, that a position has been breached when it comes to the work market. In traditional norse welfare systems, where healthy economic management is being taken into account, prevents the growth of the pay and the growth of housing, a targeted planning to reduce pressure is implemented. It involves the realization that things are going downhill, as is the case today. But there has been no word from the government of this class. Indeed, there seems to be one political party in the government to agree with the government. When all we hear is: We're not going to get involved, it's none of our business? When the state is about to receive this in the form of a pay raise, and financial policy will be broken by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u91	A respectable president. Yes, you're absolutely right. This relationship has been interrupted. Not only that, but no doubt it will be that, as with so many times before, employees will need to carry the burdens, and homes in the land, as they did after a crash. We have a member of the Parliament who is chairman of the household's Hausthroat Association, and the collapse of the homes is in fact finished. There, the land's homes were left carrying the burdens as well as wage workers, and so are those of today. What you see is that there is no connection between financial policy and housing. It is also seen in the failings to the elderly and to the disability of the elderly. These impairments are a black spot in the Icelandic welfare system and reduce the survival efforts of the elderly and the disability. And the damages are also in the pediatrics so that the entire welfare system, in case the welfare system should be called, is damaged. Today, employees, borrowing the mortgage and other loans, borrowing responsibly, carrying the burdens of inflation. This connection has indeed been cut off. And the economy - this policy is not really a policy. This is, in effect, the Justice Department's will to begin paying off 2026 debts. How comfortable it is for the government to say that they're going to do something 2026, after the election season's over. It's an election in four years, and the government that will then be powered will not be the same government as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u92	A respectable president. I can't resist coming up here from history. Senator Two, less than two, please. The legal committee will answer some of the factors and speculations he had. First of all, I want to catch the ball as he discussed transport policy. Wait a minute. A senator learns that the process of transportation is established in such a way that it is soon seen, and it is seen for a long time. By so doing, I would now say that transportation is a long - term policy. On the other hand, what we have had to deal with after we decided to increase the financial resources for transport systems is that design and preparation may not have been in the place we thought they were. It was out - of - date environmental evaluations and other factors that all have their own explanations. At any rate, it teaches us that we, as well as the transport authorities, can rely on the projection so that they do not watch some unexpected play of these materials, possible sudden cuts and so on, as it also serves as a long - term plan. I just want to say yes, a respectable president, the part that happened. A senator came here, that we had to invest more in knowledge and increase its importance in our economy. That is exactly what this government has been doing in recent years, raising contributions to innovation and knowledge industry. That's what we're going to do, and that's even. in this financial policy. A respectable president. I'd also like to point out that some of the things we're discussing under the hat of financial policy may be more at home under financial planning and implementation and the emphasis on that subject. But the question I want to leave before what. A member of the body is: Is it really best if cost comes with interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is certainly a long, shorter schedule, but these programmes need to be monitored as well. If the project has been established, whether long or short, the transport authorities need to evaluate the environmental impact of this project, by its implementation, and also in the organizational part. It needs to be ready. If a 15 - year plan exists, transport must immediately evaluate the environmental impact of this process. The same is true of the organization program. It just needs to be available. However, it seems always that the planning factor should be performed and that the environmental impacts should be assessed yesterday. But there is a need to think about the future if there is to be a plan. The priming work also needs to be done, and that is where the Senate surveillance is important regarding the implementation of the programme. In terms of expenses and economic growth, I'd like to say that if the economy grew, if the economy grows - yes, it could be, I would think that in many ways. But there is no absolute evidence that this too would require extra expenses. What is the problem is the temptation problem. If it comes to good health, expenses, investments that they have not already afforded, and plans to make up for what was not done during the crisis. It's the instability of the state's budget. I'm just here on a proposal for a hearing about financial policy that it speaks of stability and sustainability. It is not always possible to be rocked up and down. It is necessary to work gradually, both in investments and expenses, to grow slowly according to the development of the economy. But I'm not saying that if it comes up with nonsense, goodies don't go up in the air, not at all. Then shall pay off debt, of course, and I hope the Icelandic state is able to pay off debt before the next crisis. [[The president calls.]] I don't disagree that we should start paying off the debt of 2026.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u94	A respectable president. I think we've met at the core of a matter, that at any given time, we need to use the economic growth to prepare a government fund for an unexpected tragedy, because unexpected traumas, depressions, will always come upon us in some way. I think it's a fundamental part of that. A senator began his career earlier, but he became quite optimistic about our next year's success. All signs are that, at least to this day, there is actually a bigger growth than we are in the programmes we have here to support this policy. The economy is more powerful than we may have been working with so far. That is why I would like to put my mind back on the discussion that our main problem is to increase expenses for a class of lawsuits that are difficult to deal with when we get back into a crazy economy, that we are raising a long - term amount of money in a crazy economy. I'm less concerned about investments in that subject. It does not mean that the welfare systems are to be used for economic management. We have protected the welfare systems and improved the welfare systems in recent years. That's why we're gonna get bigger out of this crisis, and I think it's a good look for you. Then there is a reason. A senator of the housing market and taking the mortgage out of the index number, which is a whole different debate I'm not going to participate in here. Why am I often discussing the answers to the building? Because it seems to be the main fuel for the inflation plant today. Then we must have the courage to look to the factors that cause the instability there. There is no shortage of government donations in recent years for housing. In fact, the reality is that these contributions have not all gone, perhaps they are missing some of the areas or aspects that need to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u95	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u96	I've got a bad word. Senator. [[The president calls.]] This is simply the fact. A respectable president. What I leave in my second entrance here is that we should be careful not to let the expenses go with interest at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u97	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that this government, a political body, was not going to use the welfare system as an economy. I just remind you of all the scarcity and the elderly of the people. It reduces the economic activity of these populations in the community and is a poverty trap. It's not a welfare system. This poor talk in Iceland has not come for anything. It has come about because a group of people are kept in poverty through poor income, low - income markets. They can't make money on their own. It is quite remarkable that a group such as the Independence Party, who believe in the individual and his initiative, contributes to such a impairmental system. The same can be said for the left green, socialistic, radical left category that speaks of socialism and well - being. I can't believe they're behind these systems, both groups, a complete scandal. [[Take it up:...Present...]] Of course, when it comes to expenses, it needs to be a means of well - being. The income needs to be taken, the tax system needs to be for balance and income, and it's to be transferred to the welfare system. This needs to be traced constantly. The same is true of investment policy, it needs to be done slowly. If we're going to go from resource economy to knowledge economy so that we can keep educated people here and a high pay level, we'll have to do it slowly, not through some investment conflict, or because they're already here, or because somebody invented a video game, and then it's just Christmas. This happens slowly by training our youth so that we can get educated people out of good school systems. That's how it works, with knowledge in the community, not because it's coming back or because someone made a new app, and then it's Christmas in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u98	When we discuss the government's financial policy, we need to understand what financialism is, what it should be. What is this document going to do? What's the point? It is rather obvious from both financial conclusions and the report if you look at official financial laws, but if we try to look at it just politically, the obvious, the obvious. what financial policy should do in all the context of the rest, public financial work is being done on top of national interests for the next year. It's the big movie about what's going on here in the next few years. What governments need to answer is, In effect, what effect will governments have on the big economic picture? What is the policy of the government on the use of goods, on public investments? What will the government do to influence the larger sizes of economic conditions? This is very clear from the official financial laws. It should simply follow up a report on how baseline levels will be followed, both in terms of pay-off policies and tax policy and other revenues. Very simple. It's supposed to be a tax and income policy. In the conclusion, the report there, this is one page each, the single - page list of revenues, one page remuneration. But its content should be no more than the major challenges in income and remuneration policy, not really what to do. It's something important. With the advantage of a foundation, we must consider the challenges ahead, e.g. in a housing market, when of its size it affects in the quantity of inflation in which we see it today. For example, the index of consumer prices has increased by less than 9% - remember this number, less than 9% - since the outbreak. The majority of the objects here are staging in numbers what this means for billions of dollars, part of the government and total benefits, etc. If you take that thought a little further, just a little, and you look at the share of the state's treasure in it, and based on economic growth over the next few years each GDP will be -- it's just released and not inserted. A little bit. But what is the big context? Who will be the GDP in the years of financial policy? There's no such thing as that number. It's amazing. The national interest forecasting is being carried out, and it shows the value of each year. It's completely incompatible with the data we're working on. So we have to take out the inflation and the like, and when you do it, you don't get the same numbers, which is really interesting. We scratched our heads over it a little bit. This is what the Bureau of Economics here with us contacted Haguems, and we managed to get close to it, or something about 5 billion to or from the end of the policy. This means that GDP will be about 3,932 billion in 2026 and will have increased by 367 billion in that year, pretty good. We're wrestling with an angle of less than 200 billion, so as well as 367 billion, that's fine. We've reached over 160 billion plus by the angle we're dealing with 2022, right? No, we will, of course, take into account the inflation at the same time. This is just considering how much land production grows compared with economic growth, not real value, so it's at the price of 2022. The opposite increase is about 2.8%, 2.3%, 2.4% in interest. Expenditures should be raised at the same time by less than 1%, which is said to be actual expenses. There are about 36 billion extra by the end of the season. What's interesting about this is that if the inflation becomes higher than the rate of economic growth, then only about 9% in the period will be needed to eliminate this growth in real value. There are the 9% that have been in the minus an increase in the index price since the epidemic began. In contrast, we are talking about a similar degree of size in many years. It happened in a very few years, though, that it took quite a while. However, tension is said to be quite a factor today, so it is not likely, according to a consideration of the inflation factor of the greater part, that there is just an inflation in the maps, and it is going to be potentially strong, but predicted. There is another interesting figure in numbers that feature the largest part of the section when discussing the debt of state funds and rural society. It assumes that the debt of rural society increases in proportion to the debt of state funds. I find this very interesting policy, especially with the discussion over the past many years about a problem in rural and regional income markets, where various projects have been moved to rural communities, such as when basic schools were moved over, then the law has changed and increased responsibilities have been added to a school that costs more money without being updated to the income farm that also moved in between them. The same is true of the disabled. Today, however, there are several billion people. In part because the demands have increased, but also because of the lack of conscience, the communities have simply had to deal with them as badly as the State did. The rural communities simply contributed more fully to this service, to the better and closer to the rights that disabled people should have by law, but not by the fact that the commercialisation of rural society is so wrong. At the top of that point, the rural communities are expected to make a relative debt over the financial wealth of this policy. And this is policy. It is not said in words, but it is expressed in numbers. It's not much, it's a lot more than a percentage, but there's still that difference, despite everything. Let's just keep this and think about it in the big context. Let's just look at the basic extension according to the Board's Calculator, what the basic human extension is based on the minimum wage in the VR, the base of which. If so, do we rush into the forward; what are the costs of housing and the like? And he that is in the least shall be in the third, or in the fourth part of the increase, shall be in the minus at the end of every month, according to the set up of the kingdom. What is interesting in this context is when we consider this blessed index of consumer prices, inflation. It is made up of various indicators, including housing. Let's check the index of consumer prices. Overall, it has increased by less than 9% during this period, as mentioned earlier, while food has increased by 10%, housing costs and vehicle management by more than 12%, and insurance for less than 10.5%. This simply means worse quality of life, especially for those in areas where food and housing costs are major costs. For those groups, in effect, the inflation is more than 10%, not 9%, like for most others who then make more money. You see, all that stuff is missing. We always get financial ministers up in the General's symposium, which says: The buypower is great, it's gone up really bad, and it's never been better. How, though, did he divide into different income groups? We simply internalize that the pay plate according to the cost of living pays people in the minus, so somewhere they have to tighten the belt and remain under government management guidelines. That's what I'm talking about today. Then you would want the government's financial policy, income policy, and pay policy, in some way discussing this challenge, explaining how to solve that problem. How to Solve Your House Problem It's not in this direction. How to resolve the implementation of lower income groups? It's not in this financial policy. She's totally sliding when it comes to it. Consider an example of the answer to the question: What is financialism? It should have a baseline objective and it should be a pay-off policy and a tax policy. It should be based on five baseline values; sustainability, caution, stability, firmness and transparency. This report contains chapters called the Tech Policy and Gylist Policy and these are published, but it is not the smallest attempt to support how baseline values will be followed by this revenue and remuneration policy. That there would be a minimum explanation for the impact of government income and pay policy on these fundamental national forecasts and how government policies should affect them. Is e.g. Government policies to increase, decrease, or keep public investment unchanged? I have no idea. It is noted that recently an increase in public investment has been made in the average of 1998,2020, but it does not say what to do in the next five years, just what has been done. Then we are saying that public investment policy has been in total depression and is just up to the average right now. That's the situation right now. Suppose the government has a policy to achieve a positive balance of good products and services and the government's pay policy would be, for example, a government policy. expected increased emphasis on the software industry on export and energy exchange to reduce oil import. There are some 100 billion there. If we didn't have to import any oil, we would save 100 billion a year in currency income. It's about less now. A policy of positive products and services balances towards sustainable currency and maintains stability by minimising imported inflation. This is a dangerous policy to minimize risk to external economic development. Such a course contributes to the future in which external economic swings are less likely to be met. To meet baseline transparency, a clear aim for the impact of the policy every year on goods and services was set. This is just a brief example of how it is tried to draw closer to rationalizing government policy goals. Of course, I expect professional management to provide further numbers and more detailed explanations, this is just a short description, a keyword, of how this might start to look. But there is no attempt to go this far in policy. What, then, is government financial policy? Five points are discussed in the government's income policy. Two of them are presented as long-term problems that the government intends to do nothing in this financial policy's time, as it seems. That means there are three priorities in the government's income policy. This is not a criticism of a number of priorities but of their content and support of logic. It can be fine if there's only three highlights, nothing wrong with that. But there's no content and logical support, that's what's the problem. The first objective of the government's income is a future problem, with president's permission: the coming years will continue to improve the tax system so that the government's income supply will be sufficient to carry out its work. - who literally says she doesn't now. It is quite well established in the opinion of a financial Council of the past that we have an insurmountable income policy compared to a spending policy, no more complex than that. It's a pretty clear letter here. This is a challenge because the current system of earning and paying is automatic, and it should not surprise anyone. Because of this challenge during the period of this financial policy, the representatives of the Ministry of finance made it clear that tax changes are not expected. A second policy aim is to re-evaluate the contracting of the state of transport: the overall review of this section of the tax system in order to ensure equal tax revenues from vehicles and in 2010-2017. This is a fairly precise policy, but no attempt to explain the impact in a national relationship, no one. We also know that pressures have increased in transport and roads that need more maintenance and so forth, but they are not meant to meet that need but, as it were, in 2010-03/2017. Interesting. The third policy goal is, by permission of the President, to... reduce the reserves and, therefore, strengthen by means of government income companies. This is to be done with increased spelling and international cooperation. A good goal, but we have no idea of the national scope of this policy or how it is originally directed. What size are we talking about here? Does that have any effect? Is that a drop in the ocean? Or is this really in the proportions that it will affect the possibility to increase or decrease income taxes or to increase a person's discount or what, or simply finance the health system that is missing as well? What ratio are we talking in here? The fourth challenge is the climate issue. It should be used for positive inducers and collections of greenhouse gas emissions. Again, no magnitude or baseline-targeted logic support. Technically, it would be possible to increase e.g. A carbon charge of 0.1% and say: "We've reached this goal, we've raised the cost to those who release, we've reached our course, Yij. It's the problem when you don't tell the size, you can do anything to say, "We get it, we're gonna do it, we're gonna do it, and we're gonna get it, you see? Technically, it's true, and it's these technical exits that you're always seeing here, they're on the other side. But the government's laws on government finance simply state that it should provide measurable goals to tell what governments are going to achieve, which guards, in order to determine whether the money was well spent, whether it was a good job for public money, whether it could be done better, different. That's how we'll learn about the proposals made by the Commission. We've been dealing with all the epidemics that there's been a lot of different tools piled up to help companies and individuals here and there. What did they really do? We have no idea. There's hundreds of billions of dollars in all kinds of action, and what? Was this operation better than the others? No idea. Would any other action have been better than what was done? No idea. Lots of things like that, nothing but that. The final course is how tax revenue should develop from pay taxation to consumption. The report on financial policy states: ◯ This is a gradual trend that does not significantly affect the financial policy period.•No one has any idea of what a significant impact is. It is likely less than a significant effect, but it could mean some of the effect. I have no idea. I don't know what that is in a national relationship. No baseline, none, nothing. That's the problem with this policy work here at the government. She's really nobody, not anyone. In turn, there is so much inexplicable as the revenue policy. There are two future problems and one procedure, however, which are unclear whether economic policies will be carried out during this period. According to one report, the cost of growth will therefore be moderate in the period or less than 1% a year for the state's funds. Here it is stated that the aging of the nation and the insuficiency of a state fund are the future problem discussed in the pay policy. That challenge, of course, reveals an increase in the cost of health care and the care of the pension system as well. It also discusses how increasing contributions to micro- and sensibilities and increased rights, e.g. in the maternity of the transfer systems. No solution, nothing, no assessment of extent to meet rights, e.g. taking into account the cost of living according to the evolution of actual costs, nothing. The other problem for the future is commitment to the B-investment for the LS and ILsaves. To the extent that these commitments should be resolved during the financial programme period, there is no doubt, no idea. We're talking about a huge amount of money here, but we don't take it, we just put it aside, we save it, it's a later problem. The only action proposed is an investment in technical infrastructure through innovation. This will contribute to a better management and service. Good-bye. But again, no size, nothing. This remuneration is, in fact, spectacular, especially in view of the Treaty, which speaks of a more advanced public service and tax doctors, in line with the development of financial resources. It is certainly said that there is going to be a higher standard of living in the pay policy, but it does not seem to have anything to do with public expenses in any particular way. The consumption has been reduced, the public investment has been reduced, and the average value of which has only been reached in 1998-2020. They're supposed to be living in the best interests of the sustainable welfare system, whatever that means. If we try to put some context into this policy, it can be seen that the challenge for the next 30 years is to increase the share of the health system from 8% of GDP to 11% because of the nation's aging. It's just from the long-term economic challenge, it's just a report made by the secretary of finance. This needs to be done. The current health - care cost is about 250 billion a year, but it would make 330 billion if we went up to 11% of GDP. The actual growth of costs should be less than 1%, however, talked about 0.7%, but assuming 1%. That's about what I'm talking about. 10 billion bucks. This is a year when it's getting bigger. This does not mean that after eight years, we will have 11% of the criteria if all the physical growth becomes available in the medical system because it is also expected to improve the quality of life by increasing the problems the epidemic leaves, increasing the cake, becoming sustainable growth and what all the mothers say about it. This means that if the real growth of the economy becomes greater than the actual growth of the state's budget, then the target is about 11% of GDP will be reached only if the exchange in the state's budget changes. If we assume that the proportion of government spending remains unchanged compared to GDP, that means that the real growth of the economy must also be less than 1% per year. This means a 34.8% increase in both government funds and GDP over 30 years. A total of 11% of GDP based on such real growth at 30 years is about 445 billion. at health costs. This means that there is no need to increase the actual cost to health at 80 billion dollars. But about 200 billion dollars. over 30 years. That's about 6.7 billion taps. In a year of less than 10 billion years. ... whichis 1%reallyimprovement. However, if the real growth is 0.7%, as mentioned, almost all expenses must flow into the health system in order to achieve the long - term financial criteria. There's the pension system and everything else that has to do with population growth and stuff like that. It all seems to fit so almost all fit within the framework set, right? But the government does more. If we continue to analyze just what is within the medical system, then real - life growth would be 1.8% to meet demographic changes by 2022 but the funds were removed on the last budget bill and were actually transferred to others, in better working hours. A little interesting. This is also expected to result in a 1.5.5% drug - cost absolute growth, while the analysis of the Land Hospital accounts for a 10% rise in the future. It was also noted that 1.8% of the physical growth is too low and would need to be closer to 2.5% in order to keep up with demographic changes. Everything else would be a health - care economy. This came from sources. The conclusion of this lax complex - it's hard to bring so many numbers in a talk - an analysis of the government's pay policy shows that in order to meet long - term health policies for the nation's aging, all the real growths of health care need to be addressed, if an absolute increase of less than 1% is expected. The problem is that the government has more projects, such as the elderly, the pension system is not involved in this health system, and so is its extra cost. On the other hand, if their aging is a crisis for the future, it must also affect the affairs of the elderly in financial matters. - There's a lot left here. Put me in another speech, Mr. President, on the rosary.. I'm going to complete my opinion on the next talk and go over to a joint statement of 1, 2 and 3 memory and an audience on the committee: There is little agreement between a government contract and the budget of financial policy proclaimed throughout the terms of the term. There is no evidence of an increase in public service and a powerful welfare system. In the next four years, rapid growth to prosperity is out of harmony with the standards established by the government. The financial policy is all about challenges, but it does not contain any political solutions. It is essential in the context that the next financial programme, which will be published later in spring, includes political policy measures related to the action clearly under attack over the next few years, in relation to the framework that the government has adopted by financial policy. Public financial laws allow for transparent and realistic production of plans and realize that the government cannot bring wealth into the next financial programme. I have to say, once again, I'm disappointed by the conduct of government laws. They're just not being treated. This means that the entire budget process, from a report on long-term economic trends, financial plans, financial budgets, financial citations, and annual reports of a minister, is in effect useless because of the fact that the Minister's annual reports to explain how government policies were handled and why it was a good idea to follow government policies at a different level. When it doesn't explain, when it doesn't tell us what goals we're going to reach, you can always explain yourself by saying, "It was great, we achieved all our goals. And if you ask back, what were your goals? Well, the one we said we'd get. Exactly what? It's seen in a financial program. And you have to look in some huge document, and then you find out in the end that it was nothing, it's always like that. So once again I'm disappointed in the format and implementation of the government law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for excellent historical history 3 reduces part of a proposal to conspire financial policies by 2022◯2006. Hv. A senator began by asking: " What is financialism? He says in the beginning that this is actually just one tablet with lots of numbers on whole life, uncertainty gaps and debts, etc. and that there is a modern nútíma-Nostradamus living in the Habitat. I didn't know he lived there, but okay. The law on government finance, financial policies, says financial policies, including financial policies. converted to the following factors: a policy of the scope, development, and development of possessions. See what? Is there anything about the development of property in financialism? And if so, where is it? I don't think it's under the law in this regard. I talked about it myself about tax policy, and I read a paper on the income section, but I'm a good analysis at which point. A senator on income policy and the government's goals on income. He says, the government's Tech Policy deals with five things. That's where even the two of them come from. to the point that there is a future problem in the first part, in the second part it is a recession in the income of transport funds, third part of which is spoken of as reducing the reserves and strengthening by the government revenues. Then it's the climate and the aging of the people. These are the five points. And then you said why. A senator only at the end of resource use, and we all know the price of hunting, but not the mention of Iceland's bank. There's also talk of the remuneration policy. But read it. A senator of these five points straight up? I didn't see them listed in financial policy. What does it look like? A senator for the revenue? Could he zoom up these five points? I don't see these things myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u100	President. No, it is the very core problem that it is not simply being followed by the points set out in the government laws, on what is to be returned to the council, the support the Council should have the basis for making a decision: Yes, it is a normal financial value for the next five years, at least for longer. One of the missing things, too, is I, and the financial counsel of criticism is: Yes, it's a policy to quit debt, but please explain to us how you're going to pay them off. Is that what we're talking about 30 years into the future? Or are we talking about five years? We don't have any accumulated assets like the stability budget after the last collapse that will just come and pay off all the memory. It's nothing like that. This is where money was pumped into a business back and forth and forth without some kind of ownership against the state, as was the last one of the banks. But the business policy of the government's financial policy is, as I count in my committee, in fact, none, at least not in national terms. I'd like to see a big one -- so there's no change, but they say it needs a change. Then I'd like to see where those steps were. It appears to be in use, i.e. transfer it from income to consumption, which is said to be a long - term problem so that it may not be done during the period of this policy. I would, for example. wants more money from resources, but it's not done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u101	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When I read the committee's opinion why. A senator would think something to me - he would speak of modern nútíma-Nostradamus living in the Habitat. I like it, when it's tough. A senator makes this in his own good way with these numbers, both the pay policy and the trade policy, that it has become kind of Nostradamus because it is in the financial conference, and I take quotations from the members of the committee. A senator with regard to future problems, says: In the years to come, improvements in the tax system will continue to be made so that the government's income supply is sufficient to care for its work. There's a plan to do something, it's not a policy. They're going to do this in the years to come. It's also in unit two, regarding the recession of the state fund of transportation. It states: A complete review of this section of the tax system is delayed to ensure similar tax revenues from vehicles. There's a plan to do something, but there's no policy. If you're gonna do something, you're not gonna do it, you're just gonna do it, it's a plan, so I think this is almost a policy. Then we can go on, for example. ... abouttheclimatics. It should be used for positive inducers. There's no intention of using positive inducers. What are the motivations? It's policy. Then you have a policy, you're encouraged, you're sorry, you're motivated to do something, but it's not said who they are. The exact same thing is true of the nation's aging, the process of gradual evolution, but it is not said how to handle the situation. I read the financial policy of this government, this Senate, as an aimless document. I wondered if we should just change our name. I think the next financial policy will follow the collective agreements, that there will be a policy, and it should actually review financial policy, once the labour market parties have agreed. There will be a request for the game of the government, and then we will see a financial policy that is targeted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u102	President. I quote here at the beginning of the text of Nostradamus, quoted by NewJapanese: "Nostradamus was no more remarkable than I was in the first place. It seems, in fact, anyone can produce some kind of description of the future, such as: The present time will be harsh and bearable. I think it's financial policy in a nutshell, i.e. that we're going to stop collecting debt, that's a little tough, but it's gonna be so bear because it's predicting fine interest. I personally think there's a problem with the trend, that it will be better, that we'll stop the debt collection faster. Whether it's smart or not is something that also belongs in financial policy because we know the debt that has often been discussed here, and the cost of neglecting maintenance is also capital. We just don't have him calculated as if we had normal money debts, so we can't compare which debt is better paid off. And that's a problem. That is a problem that is not answered and has never been answered in government policy. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator's policy of government does not come until a bargain interview and then it is not the government that sets that policy, but the people of the labour market, because we really have a policy government that just expects someone else to make the policy for it because it has no political purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u103	A respectable president. The Committee's opinion of the 3rd memory of the legal committee begins with these words: Nostradamus was no bigger than I was. I can control the future just as he can. The future will be harsh and bearable. Heard it in a conversation with a long dead man. These are certainly the best sentences in the Committee's section 3, but of course they are not. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has such beautiful lyrics. As I began reading this committee party, I thought, " Well, now something exciting and exciting. ' I saw a lot of pills and I thought, "Well, finally, finally. Then I now know how someone in my part feels that financialism should really look, because we should remember that financialism is not in the foundation very long. It is this table, and it is, of course, an article with it, and it is much more detailed. But I'm always waiting, when I hear criticism of financialism, and that may be my question. A senator: What leftover numbers would stumble. A senator wants to see here? What kind of frame does that want? For the next year, do you have a candidate for public financial matters? I have to admit that if there's something that scares me about this financial policy, it's just about how long we're gonna drive a state fund at a negative get-up and that we're not going to stop debting until 2026. My question to why. The senator is, where's his table? Where is his plan or Pirata's vision of what state financial policy should look like?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u104	President. It's very interesting to me. A senator feels that these are the best words in the Committee opinion, not even the quotes of financialism itself or the opinion of more parts. Let it hang a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u105	...your lyrics.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u106	Yeah, there's a lot of my lyrics out there. It's not right. A senator says that financialism is the table there, for it makes it very clear that financial policy, according to Article 4. the law on public finance, shall be a policy on the scope, yield and development of possessions, the debt and long-term debt of the public public public bodies and to follow a report on how baseline should be followed, both for policies on the development of pay and tax policy and for other government revenues. It's in a report, certainly. But it is totally part of financial policy that the government accurately explains this table that is there, and the impact on the global scale discussed in the Economics of the Habitat. [[Up front.]] - I'm getting to it here. I don't think it's such an unrealistic pill after all. I guess it'll come out better than the numbers that are here, simply because, in economic terms, forecasting how the development of the next year will turn out. We simply have this kind of control system here, it's clear, and we don't have a chance that someone outside of the Ministry can make sense, that I can't possibly put out some table on this myself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can only criticize what governments themselves forget to do under official financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is interesting to hear, as I understood, that he is not at all incompatible with the board as such and does not consider it unrealistic. But that is exactly what the text says, and I quote the text at the point. A member of the committee's opinion: ◯ For most of us, this is just one incoherent figure. Especially because the production is in proportion to a national product that no one knows who will be in the future. Then he is likely to refer to Nostradamus alone who might say so. But I wonder why. A senator is often so preoccupied with the law and the format, and this is exactly what he says in Article 4. the law on government finance, on financial policy, that is how policy should be established, and that is certainly done here. I have to admit, I thought it was what I was about to see at the mouth. A senator on the tables. But no, it's the national interest forecast. Now, we've talked about national interests over the past few years. With this discussion and criticism, I wondered if people would like to see a different kind of work on national ideals themselves. I refer often to the fact that national interest is being done by professionals, regardless of what the government is doing. They are just evaluating the situation as it is at that point and predicting what the future will be if there is no response. The government has been able to react so repeatedly through the Covid epidemic which has just made the projections need to change again. I'm asking why. A senator: Is he with these tables all over the national ideals of several years criticizing national interest predictions as such, the law behind it, or are they actually calling for it, as is sometimes done here in the government's debate on financial matters, that the government uses its own predictions in policy and plans? So I'm going to point out that it's not too many years since, if you look at the financial plans of your country partner, that different inflations were expected to be expected if you looked to Garndatown, Reykjavík, or Mosfellstown. [[The president calls.]] I'm so glad we're at least in the direction that we're based on professional figures from The Habitat on national ideals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u108	President. Eight. On the basis of public financial legislation, the economic basis for policy development is as follows: The balance of public finances should be based on sound information and, if available, objective and systematic data and public interest and national forecasts that take into account economic and economic impact from government plans. What effect does government plans have on national interests? That's what I'm critical of missing. It's not here. The reason I make up these national predictions is, for example, that's why I'm making these national forecasts. in October 2020, a 15.8% increase in public investment is expected, with a reduction of 5.2%. This is an amazing difference in the extent of public investments in two separate national forecasts. It is as if the government has no idea what it is to do in its own public investments. That's what I'm trying to criticize by offering these different national forecasts in budget 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Publicly, such as in a public investment, and so it can't resist at all, i.e. We don't see policy. We see some reflection of her in a national forecast that's a total of 20 percentage points, which is huge. That's what's missing here. I want it to be processed at 8. and I want the government's plans to be open to all of us so that we can see how government policy has a positive or negative impact on the use or public investments or the like. That's what's missing, and that's why I'm complaining.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u109	A respectable president. We're here on the government financial policy. It's just been a brilliant, interesting discussion here today, I'd like to say, and a lot of interesting and good things that have been going on. Of course, the debate here reflects a bit of what has happened on a budget committee, and in itself nothing is quite surprising in that context. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson here considered our committee in a greater part of the committee and its main figures. But I would also like to discuss these matters only a little. I'm gonna start by saying that I can totally agree with the work we're about to start, and I've talked about this before and on the Committee on Development and that sort of thing on the LOF or on official financial laws. There is something else we need to add, and what we need to say to the project is that we want to have it done in a different way. It is relevant to policy and financial or financial policies. It's all in that context. I don't believe that we are now making a big change in the rest of the months ahead, because we are only right about a month in a financial program. But still, I think we should try to get something out of the way we at least would. wants to clear up the financial agenda. This policy is based on Article 4. it's a government law. The underlying goal is to reduce debt to be prepared to cope with traumas that are said to be more frequent than have been in the light of a changed reality. That is why it is vital that we try to win through it slowly. Fortunately, everything in the economy seems to be moving faster than we expected. I think it's really important. But I will say it here, and I have said it before, to the debt, i.e. That 7th hole. a law that I did not approve of at the time when the law was given is something we need to consider. These are quite rigid standards, and a 30% debt rate is also a very rigid reference, of course. But I'd also like to say that while it's stated that we're supposed to be in a decent balance 2026, I think we have to face the fact that if something happens along the way in those years, we need to be ready to revise it and to slow down in reaching it again. It must always be up to us to live up to the systems we set up, and if that means we have to stretch on these things, we should. This refers to the debt as a share of GDP around 40.5% in this year, 2026, and decline from that time. But as I say, I think we should be absolutely aware that there may be something in which we need to reevaluate it. But hopefully the economy will get going quickly so that we can expect a better position even before this event takes place. Because this issue has been discussed on the uncertainty issue, and a lot of questions has been raised as to whether we are going to make a success of the system, and I don't think that should be necessary, and financial advice has suggested that it doesn't. Of course, it is the temptation discussed in this context. But I think that what we have to do primarily to consider is how we can reach the goals of the government covenant within the limits of which we put ourselves in this course. Indeed, it is because of these frameworks that are installed here, that is designed for financial development, so that we can look to these goals not only for debt ratios but also for the ability to use them for the upbuilding of our welfare systems. It's a good prospect; the figures of the last year in public companies and other things, as well as what we hear from the tourism today, indicate that this is more rapid than we expect here by this policy, despite the fact that we've been changing it a little, as suggested by the proposal of the greater section at the end of the committee opinion, where we suggest a slight rise in the balance of debt. But that's also what I want to go over, the economy, the inflation, and all these criteria that are applied to the members of the body at the end of the section have changed views. I'm not going to stretch the time and repeat it at all. I just want to talk about these points that we put in here, the more part, about the opinion of a financial body where we agree and what it says. I'd also like to say here that the committee has discussed that we get financial advice more often at our table to follow this up, i.e. how to progress over a period of time, or how to plan. I think it is very important for the council that we take it in a more regular way and more often than has ever been done so far. There is also a firm hold on the part of an independent person, so it is not just the politicians who speak when it comes to it. I can totally agree with things that have been going over here today on clarity, especially that we can get better around things with some kind of goals and measurement of what we're here for. Of course, it is a pleasure to find financial advice that the public's sustainable debt is not at the present rate of concern and that debt rates remain low. I also agree that this legal practice we are working after today has proved our values in spite of certain limitations on him, and we stand before and have been discussing here today and may wish to change. I'd like to say about what we've talked about when we're discussing government finances, i.e. for a number of scenarios, that they need to be more detailed than we have so far, that, indeed, the Ministry of Economics and Economics has been reacting. There has been a growing number of films, and only when I started with a budget committee and the first years we were initiating this system. But how important it is when we are in a swinging economy like this that we have more standards than just one. It's been happening slowly. For the investments, because they've been called here, that's why. paritaprevir First, Kristrún Frostadóttir, the Golden Rule that the European Union is considering. I think there's something we should consider and that we should take a serious conversation about whether it's something that's effective and just follow up the European Union discussion on these issues. But I'd like to kill about the investments, because it's, of course, always the prerogative that's put here, i.e. that long - term purposes, profit, and priorities should be determined. Truly it needs to be underneath, and I'm not going to belittle it, but we also need to be open to the fact that some investments, e.g. transport does not necessarily result in financial gain, but it is socially profitable. I think it'll have to be worth it, too, when we're talking about investment and profit. I wanted to roll it up because it hasn't been pulled out here. Indeed, we have this inner well - being in many parts of the world, and we need to continue and do better there than we have been. There has also been a debate over all kinds of conflicts, and I can agree with that, whether it is a conflict or just an increase in money on some project, that those who are involved in machines and activities, as this has been discussed - it is very unfortunate not to have put all the money in the work we have already assigned, whether it is a road or a housing or something like that. This, of course, is most unfortunate, since there is a need everywhere. We need to talk on serious terms, as we were in the past, because money doesn't go to work when it's not done. That's what I'd like to kill on here about those investments. It also says here, and we agree that we need to be careful that the level of investment does not diminish because the contractions can, of course, work against the potential for growth discussed here today. What is underlying in this Golden Rule is that the economy does not require that we reduce our investment and not really become the operating tool it has been up to now. We have discussed quite a few things today, smaller things and more, about the public finances and the money policy of work and the rhythms and laws on public finances, have indeed brought them up considerably and have achieved the goals they were intended for this interaction. With the state's financial status, we were better equipped when a pandemic struck to cope, and we too have been joined by the Federal Bank by lowering the direction and support of financial policy, so it is truly possible to say that this has been achieved. But I'm just gonna say here in the rest, that, of course, there are a lot of things ahead of you, big projects and challenges that have been discussed here by many causes. Councilmen today. There's even one here. discuss the interaction between financial policy and the Treaty, and I believe we should be able to achieve the objectives of a government contract. Of course, we can truthfully say that the future system changes - and many things have already been done, let's not forget it, because it has been claimed here today that nothing has been done or has been done in the welfare systems. That's not true, there's been a lot of work to do. But better, if it's enough. Of course, communication systems have grown substantially, both the health and the social security systems. The curve that is due to the failures we are here to suggest that there be real growth, which can be met in my opinion as the object of the covenant. I don't think we have to worry that our policy will be broken at year by year because of contracts that lie ahead and so on. Of course, there is strong counsel for us to take action. But surely, as we have been, we must not forget that there were fine agreements made, and labor leaders were very pleased with them. And because the facilities have also been mentioned, of course, a certain group was formed in connection with it. This group has been re-invited to include prepare the process for the challenges ahead, and we are facing now. If so, I would also like to remind you that we both need to look for ways to strengthen our rent and build a home for everyone. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I'm guessing I'll get an answer here. It sounds like I'm trying my best to answer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. The chairman of the budget committee for the talk, and I wanted to give a little more consideration to the budget range we discussed earlier. You see, I was miscalculationed earlier. I talked about 20 billion, and I'm not right. At that time, I was talking about 0.7% of the domestic product, but these are 0.7% of the budget services they are today. Thus, according to financial figures, 8 billion per year is the scope for growth if I am right. The rural population lacks 9 billion, so if the government is going to make up for this hole in the rural population, the entire scope is gone 2023-226. I point to the question raised by the chairman of the committee: Where to cut these changes through when the situation of disabled people cannot be strengthened at the point of the rural stage? Because if this is fully supported, the government will not allow any other causes to go through unless it's involuntary. [[The president calls.]] Where does she think she can cut it down?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u111	A respectable president. Like what? A senator may have got the answers today, I believe that by taking on our economy to grow and prosper again, there will be the scope needed to meet the challenges ahead. As also shown in a government contract and financial policy, there are, of course, certain tax changes and other things that cannot be excluded at all. Here, ministers have also considered that if -- Yes, there is nothing if there are certain changes expected. Above all, we build this by trying to find a system economy without necessarily cutting it down. It does not necessarily mean that it will be cut down. By increasing the economic growth, as we expect and as we already see, we will be able to meet this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u112	Thank you. The answer to that question is made by the chairman of the committee, but it brings attention to the fact that these 8 billion have only been discovered. In other words, the decision has been made, in this direction, not to make good use of all the profits because we are going to go to the prison so quickly. So it's just the space of the situation. Since there's another side to this, I wanted to ask why. Chairman of the budget board on the pay side. It is said of the consumption of taxes, to form in the paper with this synonym. They're taxes, they're very different taxes. Mind your own business. The chairman of this taxation office, or he agrees with it at the highest level. A businessman who, for example, wishes to have a bank tax rise? Are there any other sources of income that you can take? A committee manager would rather look at these consumer taxes on which the report is used?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u113	A respectable president. Indeed, many things are practical for us even if only the quality of land - activation is better spoken of. There are increased profits in the state, and there are a number of incomes that I believe can help to meet some of the challenges ahead. With regard to the consumer taxes, I'd like to say: Of course, we have the merit tax and something else that everyone needs to pay. We've dropped it to 11%. He's pretty low, so I'm not really worried about that. As for the bank tax, I can totally stand here and mention that I've talked about it, when it was reduced, it said that if we didn't see the banks returning it to the people, I would be ready to raise that tax again. I've always talked about it, even though there's not necessarily a harmony in the entire government or all the groups about it. It's just like it is. But I've talked about it, and I did it here in a pit when that tax was dropped. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u114	A respectable president. I want to ask you what. Chairman of the budget board two questions. On the one hand, I'd like to know why the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, puts this presumptuous emphasis on reducing the scope of the state and the government of the economy in the coming years, both on the expense gate and on the income gate. Does the left movement offer any dislike for drinking and public service? Is that how it is? The other question is, Count out. A member of the council of the government may be adopted and revised in accordance with the historical expenditure shown in this financial policy and in accordance with the low level of public investments expected in this financial policy? Would it be most simply with those who chose these political parties, even read the government covenant, and thought that there was something to say?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u115	A respectable president. I'm gonna say I think it's a little bit deep in my year. I'm going to say that I feel that talking about the fact that the left green hates the combination. I'm just gonna say it here. We are not stressing that the extent of the State, the budget and income gate, will be far less than ever. We've grown - and we've heard it regularly at the Senate Hall, and we know why. A senator, that we are shocked, by the independent tribe in particular, to extend the booth. I think there's something that's gonna answer itself when it's wrong. A senator looks back on what happened during the last term, where, apart from the funds that have taken care of Covid, our entire infrastructure, our health system, our welfare system, our transfer system has been put on a tremendous scale. I can't say that we're suggesting that all of this be in some historical minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u116	Mr. President. We have a document that means that the annual physical growth of bills will be very small in historical terms, 0.7%. Official levels of investment will also be unusually low. The matter is pointed out by the financial adviser. This isn't something I'm making up for. It's sad if it is. A senator doesn't think it's tasteful, but that's just the way it is in this shitty financial policy. According to the budget established by the government last year, the rate of GDP should be lower by the end of this election period than it has been seen in this century. The same applies to the extent of the official generality. It is not merely backing up something in recent years; it is being made political decision that the State and the government bring together the sails, hold their hands, will be less involved in coping with the challenges we face as a community. There's no left on this. [[The president calls.]] It's a right course, and that's why I ask again, "Why do the people chosen for the left movement feel that it is a green offer so important that they reduce the scope of the government and the extent of the economy?" [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u117	A respectable president. I said before, because I had it all figured out. A senator said that the left green disliked the combination, that I liked the words tasteless, and that I love it. So I'm gonna stay here. And in terms of the need to revise the Law covenant in accordance with a decision made, I say: No, it doesn't have to be done that way. I've done so in reply and in my speech, I believe that we can handle what we have to do and really do. And considering how close we have been to people and businesses through the conditions we've lived with, I'm not so worried that we can't put up with the events ahead of us. We're also supposed to be talking our community up. After the more than two years, we have had problems, whether travel or otherwise. How happy we must be that it produces more economic growth, which becomes a treasure for fine works! [[Up front.]] And that's why we're left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for the speech. Actually, I'd like to say about four or five times, so it's not just once. Hv. The chairman of the budget board came up to the development of financial policy, and I would like to use this opportunity and ask him about it. Now I've been looking at the budget policy this year. The course itself is two A4 pages. There Is a Purpose, by Figure 1 2.mg. 4. c., in this table. The course itself, suggestions itself, is very low, but the meat is all in the report. There are, of course, those enormous goals. But wouldn't it be right to change the format, to expect more for this to be more objective, that it was a personal policy? The tax policy - what are you going to do, how do you picture it? Where to increase the consumption taxes, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u119	Thank you. A senator resists. As I said earlier, I am very interested in our efforts to adapt the format of the plates we cover at any given time. This is a question given by the law, "Do we really want to change the law in particular about the format? " I don't know if it's necessarily the right course to do that. But I agree that it can be more clear and more effective with policy-making that governments are advanced in order just to put the policy forward, if you can put it that way, as we have discussed, so that we can see plans better for ourselves than in any phrase that can mean one thing or another. That's why I'm taking it. I've always said we should do our best to keep this clear and to keep it unto ourselves. That's what matters. We have made progress at one time and another, but we need to keep moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u120	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. 2nd over 2.mg. Section 4. says it's an article on how to meet baseline values. 2 mg. Section 6. will be followed, both in terms of the development of the paying and in tax policy and in other government revenues - the report on this. I can't read it any other way, so the report should be in financial policy itself, so it should be in the suggestion rather than a paper on the proposal. I get it so that the report is in financial policy, not financial policy reporting. With regard to the presentation, I'm sure it's changing the law to make a clear, but to me it's an explanation of a legal case, an explanation for the Senate resolution. But I'm not going to spend much time with this, but hopefully we'll have a good job about it. With regard to the Golden Rule and Investors, the EU, I should hope we make our own rules. We don't have to take everything from Brussels. In terms of financial investments, I feel that it is very important that even conditions for living will be taken there as an important part of the investments in the country. [[The president calls.]] That's absolutely basic when you're going to be dealing with investors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u121	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator about the logic, so I'll start with what he said about the law. When we get to that job, we're sure to take that point into our conversation. As I came in earlier, in terms of my investments, I think it is of great importance what a lucrative investment means. Arduous investment is also social; i.e. That's exactly what I'm talking about, making sure you're even. I myself live in a rural society with four four tunnels, which are by no means profitable if you see it to give some money to the state, but it certainly has transformed and inhabited by society. I've also kept it up, so I'll stick to the tunnel, that we should just take a loan and do like Faeroes and have a few tunnels running at once. There is something that we need to do, away from whether there are a lot of people living on it or not. We know from there that not many are needed to drill a tunnel. In many ways investigating investors, we need to consider that social interests are also profitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u122	President. In fact, the only relevant factor in government remuneration is this less than 1% real growth, which has been calculated to 0.7% in ASI reviews. At the same time, the goal of the government is to grow out of nowhere. You are trying to maintain unchanged expenses or 1% physical growth, and economic growth is going to rise in order to bridge the gap. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is this remuneration going up? Are we postponing our sustainable development, considering the negative results? Is it not true that despite the economy, the government fund is currently insurmountable? [[The president calls.]] Does that not mean that we have economic growth - dependent resources? If so, does the remuneration go up?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, the thing about growing out of the hatch as we've done - we have an insuficient position, we know that. That certainly means that we may need to postpone the situation in a sustainable manner. I think it's in the middle of nowhere. I said before that the economy is all on its way up, and maybe faster than we had anticipated, but if anything comes up, in the years of policy development, we may even have to re-create or revise it, we may have to face the fact that it will be self-sustaining. Economic growth - indeed, a major factor in the success of economic growth and the continued success of the future. But this does not mean that everything else is excluded in order to set up the state's financial status if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u124	President. This is exactly what I think is clearly accepted in this financial policy, i.e. that it is an underlying problem, and that it is simply a postponement of the problem. It is part of the policy of not fixing the angle of growth but simply taking it up to the level of economic growth, to weigh the angle, and trying to push the interest higher than it was in sustainable long - term interest, so to speak, to offset the underlying problem of state funds. When, then, should the underlying problem be fixed? We must always aim at the sustainable economy-corrected, i.e. Whatever the case, it's an act of shame or a slight setback. If not during this financial policy, when should the problem be corrected?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u125	A respectable president. Of course, we're in this swinging economy and we can't avoid it. We're such a small economy, and it all depends on what long-term economic growth is in some equation here. It's something we don't know very well in Iceland, to have a profit that's slowly secreted. It's this underlying problem, like a whale. A senator, which means that at any given time, in each government, the criteria may change, whether in terms of expenses or income. You can't solve it once and for all because there are always new projects that need to be handled at any given time. Whatever it is. A senator's talking about, that we can sail such a pleasant sea, despite some tiny dip, is hardly possible in the small economy as we are, an economy that always becomes quite swinging.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u126	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place here on the petition that we're discussing as a matter of financial policy to 2026. Here, members of the committee have been discussing among themselves. Interesting discussions and the fun of listening to people approach these things in different ways, each one from his own direction. I now have the title of a budget commission to be an audition officer. I'm not allowed to just listen, but I'm allowed to share my opinion, and I'll have the opportunity to express my opinion here. There are several things that I find interesting and want to mention that are important to me and that I want to draw attention to when considering them. A lot of things have been said here today and something I'm just gonna have to repeat, but I'm gonna try to stick with a few things that I now feel important. I'd like to start, with President's permission, to read from the report in the introduction, which says: In 2026, financial policy guidance is that the increase in government debt as a proportion of land production stop. The aim is to protect the financial resistance of the public and the government's ability to soften the impact of unexpected economic conflicts in homes and businesses, while at the same time, at the same time, the place where a public service guard and a transfer system will be used. At the same time, it builds up space to meet increased expenses for predictable demographic change. Which we also know as a nation's aging. As you look at this text, there are many things and a great deal of things that are important, that are supposed to be a public service guard, strengthen the transfer systems, and stop the debt collection. But when you read what it says, you can't see where you're stopping a debt collection. On the contrary. As this policy continues, debt increases throughout the entire period of time. We now received information on these financial policies and, including financial advice, which is now the person who is to be monitored by financial regulations and by government laws, and who wants to take note of what is said and put on the table. There are several factors that I do well to address as a financial adviser. They're talking about stability in policy. It says, by permission of the President: Official financial laws are designed to provide a structured framework for public financial policies, which include: factors for firmness Then they say: "Religion problem in the public media. It's too short to look to the future and the impact of interest. I think reading this is very important. Then, because this has been moved to 2026, they say that in this financial policy, the first provisional policy has been made and the growth of the debt ratio has changed 2025. The problem is postponed beyond the government's terms. It's amazing to read it. There is a financial obligation to say that this government will not handle matters; she intends to leave it to the next government to do so. I can't read it any other way than for them to look at it that way. Then, in the ensuing circulation of policy, they say that there was a lack of concordance between financial policy and a government contract. This should be taken seriously. If the financial policy to be run here for the next four years is out of harmony with the government covenant that the greater part has since autumn, then we have a problem. Then I find it remarkable to read a chapter on the development of a property that, on the basis of President's permission, is that a debt policy is not to be a factor in the possession of public balance accounts. What is the point? Are they saying we shouldn't sell Iceland Bank or what to say? They are warning against using government property to pay off debt, which will be done in some other way. But in this financial policy it is said that it should, for example, be held. to use sales in Iceland banks to pay off debts. A respectable president. I'd like to mention this here specifically, because it was mentioned in the speech of a man. The senator and the chairman of the preceding legal committee would need to be more familiar with the legal committee and the financial body. Then I'd like to review a country partner's position that needs to be discussed with what's going on, for despite the fact that it's her own administrative level, they're dependent on each other, working together, and usually doing the same service. So it is important to have discussions between rural and State about how to earn money and then who to give the service and the money. When you access the European Union Society's website, you will find some very important information there, including. increase in salary and have been increasing as part of the sector's annual budget, from around the end of the year 50% for being more than 58% based on the results predicted for 2021. Of course, this will make it a significant amount of community space to provide other services to be provided and investments to be made. It also says that an investment project needs to be done in the year for 55 billion, but to pay back 19 billion dollars in return, it is 36 billion plus a rate in the rural population, which is 6 billion. In some way, rural communities have to finance 40 billion, and it is not recorded on the street when the debt ratio is averaged 117% for the rural population. There are a number of factors worth referring to the situation of the rural society. We found this in the week's ballot when we met fellow rural governments around the world, many of them being frightened over the situation. We're hearing committees of humble, small income companies. At the same time, however, there is a growing number of projects. The list of cases involving those who were disabled is spoken of here as missing 9 billion. The cost of children with a specific problem has been discussed. I don't know the cost of that. There is a change in the waste management and waste environment. This will cost societies something. Change of focus on reporting. Most rural societies just have everything down their throats when it comes to CA. This is not an election, and it is not popular to take in elections and spend hundreds of millions. Then there are those successful bills that are planned and should provide better service than there is no funding. Although these over a billion people have been pushed into action, there is no future funding. An additional service is to be extended, but increasing the cost of service, and who is to pay it? Is that what the locals are supposed to do? For what money? At the same time, everyone's arguing over the rise of real estate costs in their communities. So they need to find some other farms to work with. Then you can read that rural communities now have to make changes in budgets with an Annex to what is burdensome and have been placed upon their rural communities, on the other hand, that rural communities have to enter their annual accounts in rural law. The situation of the rural society may be mattered. And, on the other hand, which becomes quite burdensome for many rural groups, the secretary of finance confirmed before Christmas in previous grants from Icelandic insurance mathematicians on life expectancy that significantly affects the assessment of pension bonds. This will greatly increase the commitments of rural society in many of them by hundreds of billions. This will, of course, affect local management if anyone becomes. In this financial policy, it's like the members of the committee, or maybe just the Ministry of finance, are very busy with what happens in collective agreements, very busy. I'd like to mention something here, by permission of the President, which says: In the United States, there has been a systematic increase beyond the scope resulting from inflation and production. As a result, in this country the rate of remuneration in valuables is now by the highest known in controlled countries and in principle, equal to the highest. Of course, these are big claims. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has been here repeatedly and said that there was so much money in Iceland to buy. But the one with 700,000 bucks. and paid for $25,000. elevations have not increased pre-causality over inflation when inflation is 5.7%. It's just a matter of time. Because the $25,000 is 3.5%. Yes, perhaps the one with $300,000, was able to increase his power, not the one with the average income. Promission has been dwindled. So when it comes to taking in such countries as Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Spain, where the level of pay has not been high. It is said to have a 60% share in Iceland. In Finland it is 54%, Sweden being 55%, Norway is 58%. In Switzerland it's 61% and in Germany 61%, so we're just pairing with what's happening in the countries we want to compare ourselves with. That's just the way it is, no less or less. Because we want to be a welfare community, we have a fine relationship with the countries we would like to compare with. It is clear and sacred that collective agreements must be within stability limits. I'm asking you, who are they? What are these stability limits used by the Icelandic retailers? Sometimes inflation is 2%, sometimes 20%. What's the stability? The transport systems rock out and south, and when they're requesting a new work market model in Iceland, you have to go to the quality and social stability of the North countries. It is not taking on child damages because the pay increased slightly or because the property was raised by some form of expansion. People keep what they can, they don't move, they don't get personal discounts, they don't follow the pay changes that happen there. All of this has to go together. Icelandic employees cannot always be expected to take on a limited share. It will be our task here at the council to create this stability. For some reason, though, it seems that we have nothing to do with it. We have a liquid crown, and it is thought to be so convenient to wear a liquid crown, yet we still have this crown - it has a belt and a bracelet. We have some national receivers to protect what? A useless currency that swings up and down. We've got a currency account to try to keep the crown so decent. We forbid the pension fund to leave the country to invest because they think they can enjoy the best fruit. So I don't understand why we keep trying to maintain stability in this strange environment and suggest that it be a challenge to face it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u127	A respectable president. I just want to thank you. A senator for his introduction in this discussion. Most of his time went to discuss the local position, but I'm going to start by asking him otherwise. It didn't go unnoticed. A senator whose way he or regal wants to slow down or speed up the debt pay when he spoke of an increase in debt during this period. What will help him to cope? Then I want to go into the locals. I agree that we need to consider making a lot of money for a country or a country partner. We've talked about it here and all that has come out of it is the tax connected to the tourist service that has been so suspended, the host tax, or laid aside for now, so there's little to come in there. What are some ideas? A senator on what might come there to create a new income company or something like that? I wholeheartedly agree that we, who have been met with the government, have been putting on increased spells on our rural communities with all kinds of new headquarters and regulations and what it is now all about. I'd like to, though, because of what. A senator quoted Icelandic partner's relationship, however, that since there are expected to be a slightly higher proportion of 67 rural communities who have 99.9% of the population at a angle than 35. Happily, that is how it is, for the projections over the past year were that 27 were to be fired with rest and 42 with a tilt. Happily, something good is going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u128	A respectable president. The guides of financial policy are said to be a stop in debt, and I was just pointing out that I don't see where I'm headed in what way to do that. I'm not sure that I'm necessarily willing to cut down to reduce my well - being, I'm not there. The restoration has even been achieved. An opportunity to increase income is suggested by raising resource costs, and there are more things. There's been a name here on bank tax and money tax and whatever it is possible to raise money. Of course, this need to be played together. The trip costs money, and we have to finance it in some way, so I'll just be there. In terms of rural society, many of them are now faced with the issue of not even investing for deduction. That's just the way it is. The need for investment may have to be adjusted in some way. They need to build a nursery, it is required that their communities provide resources for children from one year of age at the end of their delivery course. It is not a legal task for the local community to do this, but it is a requirement for the communities. The rurals are far more than just legal tasks. Of course, local income options need to be considered. Hv. A senator mentioned the host tax that had brought benefits to many rural communities. It is also not a law that the switch between income tax and an answer is always the same. You can change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator answered, it was interesting to hear. This is a list of resource costs and resource taxes and other things, and it would be interesting to know if the restoration had discussed in particular what the resource budget should be if not these 33% e.g. from the resources of the ocean. Are we talking about other resource costs, because we're forgetting a little bit about the other resources, the geothermals and everything we've been discussing in this context? It would be nice to have the answer. I'm an ex-communicator, so I figure out what's going on. It is now assumed that the relationship's negative outcome will be about 1.5% of rural income. There are over 6 billion of them. We also know that there are many smaller rural areas that are more difficult to deal with the challenges mentioned, including Waste management and waste disposal. But there must be something we want and must do. We can't push it away anymore. Like what? A senator mentioned these matters with a lot of sadness, but in other places this situation is being done very well, and it has been done well, whether the irrigation or the waste management. We also heard during the district week that there is concern that the induction period is not long enough. I know the relationship belonged, for example. to provide a central waste management manual. I haven't figured out what the situation is now after, like, six months or so, if it's not yet available. Of course, it is shocking if not, for it was given special funds to do this. We cannot push these matters away indefinitely, but we may need to look at someone but just the answer. I think we need to have some kind of imagination in wondering where else we can go, and we don't feel very burdensome for the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think that use of common resources should be expedient. I'm not quite ready for any of this, but I'm sure that the output that exists today doesn't give the money that I think the nation has a right to. I think that we should unite in this ideal period just to consider the possibilities, both the income of state funds, and then the income of our community. It's important that all of this is okay. We heard in our polls that there's talk of health care, it's called law enforcement, that's what we're talking about. How should rural society unite if it is not possible to drive buses on roads, the school bus on roads? There are a number of projects waiting for us, both at the Assembly Hall and then at home in the province, and we are to unite in solving them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and would like to intervene only in the workforce discussion because it has a lot to do with this financial agenda. The cost of pay is a large part of the country's annual budget, 50%, for the state, about 30%. The State has repeatedly underestimated this cost. We have tailored ourselves to a very narrow position in this financial policy, 8 billion leeways now. At the same time, there is no discussion, and it seems total indifference to consider options that could prevent us from getting high - paying increases in our arms during the fall, because housing increases consume all the money we earn now and in the same cycle of pay. So I'm going to throw that question and think about it. A senator's lack of this vision into the financial policy, the reality of the labour market, and whether people in the Ministry of finance and the government are so busy planning something ahead, something vague, some frame, that the basic managers of the economy today are missing, who are taking into account the labour market situation, accept economic error that has taken place. in a house - to - house market and now taking responsibility. The problem is, this policy is broken if there's nothing to do today. I'd like to hear a point of view. The senator's importance in today's activities is to keep this course from rising immediately in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u132	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm really worried about this. I myself worked in this workforce for 20 years, being the president of a trade union, and I now feel that the situation is drawing up as if it was drawn up in the old days when we saw inflation and undermined the well - being that people had expected. They're throwing it on the table for us that public parties are leading to a remuneration change, which I just want to object because at the time of the minimum wage increase, it was the most effective, the most effective bait, where pay was the lowest. It was with the BSRBs and union workers. One percent of them worked more there. We know that there are serious challenges ahead of us in the local community. The teachers are down, for example. a recent agreement based on a biographer agreement and is now having some further discussion. We don't know what BHM does. They have drawn up the policy of assessing the level of pay and will want something for them only. Then we have this inflation, and if you're going to make money, you don't make any money less than that of inflation. Yes, I'm very worried about this, and in time this could be a real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and would like to follow this along with the discussion that was initially in regard to the lack of spending and income policy in this financial policy, whether it's an opinion. A senator that if this were to develop, there would be some debate about evolution in the child - reform system, the development of growth reforms, and the like, it might create a slightly greater level of peace in the labour market in the fall. Is it not irresponsible on the part of the government to present such an important document in which there is just as little room for action as it is seen in in inflation and inflation now without even referring to the possibility of strengthening the transfer systems so that we do not see a dolphin running at a labor market in the fall? People cannot rely on maintaining their power of purchase by means of other sources from the transfer carts; they just need to pick it directly to employers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u134	A respectable president. Of course, it makes sense that if the transfer systems are stable and people can assume that there is something that can be done to create an environment that can be worked on. It has long stuck to this community of ours that, despite the fact that nothing else has changed, it has the same salary, and even the result of the loans increased because of the rise in in inflation. This, of course, is the prerequisite for us to create something called the Norse Corporate, which we will build for the future, that we have this solid foundation that people can rely on. Otherwise it'll always be like a jungle here, a dolphin race, and there'll always be some bad ones out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u135	President. I find something interesting for the management departments to come up here and ask what the government would want to do in terms of pay and income, etc., especially because there is no financial pay or income policy. Perhaps just hoping that they will ask and seek advice is all that they can do. Hv. A senator came up with some ideas earlier. The foundation we're dealing with is that despite what it looks like, where it's supposed to be a good economy in the years to come - we're coming from great depression and it's often easy to get out of it -- it was economic growth of 2.8% in 2019 C.E., and that economy was insurmountable to government management. Long-term haplasia should be approximately In the space where we should remain, we have enough to cover expenses and such things, but it is insurmountable. All right. We're supposed to grow out of this economic depression now, which means that economic growth should be developed higher than the long - term average in order to make money back. The more economic growth, the more income we earn, the more we earn, the way we work against the angle of this insurmountable business. If there were some form of revenue, we would win this collection faster down. We'd achieve a sustainable government business until it's not done. It is remarkable, in context of all the medical facilities, housing markets, collective agreements, the aging of the people, that there is nothing to be done. [[The president calls.]] It is interesting that governments are asking us what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u136	A respectable president. It's getting pretty big when the government members are putting us up against a wall of solutions in this. I don't have the solutions, but we can all work on them. When I'm in politics, my thinking and my primary goal is to improve my well-being. It matters to me that I can contribute in some way to improving the welfare of our society. How do we do that? We must earn money because of the cost of our well - being. Then all we have to do is face up to the fact that to earn money, we have to tax. We have to tax. We must also accept natural and justified taxes from the use of our resources. But we have the guts to face the fact that we have to tax. There's nothing wrong with paying a lot of taxes if you make good money. Of course, we're just afraid to take this discussion. We're not supposed to be like the United States, where everyone tries to steal from taxes. We're supposed to do what Scandrina was like because we want to count ourselves to the northern countries. We want to be a Norwegian welfare community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u137	President. Indeed, an inevitable fact is that long - term earning of more money is needed in relation to the trend in financial policy, e.g. Because of the aging of a nation that puts more stress on the pension system and more pressures on the health system. It's just inevitable. The policy, however, seems to be not taking place during this financial policy, so more angles are to be collected because under it is insurmountable. They're supposed to try to weigh both up, tilted by the epidemic, and this incoherentity with more economic growth than long-term economic growth is expected. I don't see anything in financial planning and financial policy that says how the government is going to promote economic growth, there's nothing about it. I don't see how to solve the underlying problem. I'll just stand there and scratch my head. I have a lot of ideas. I just don't have a position to measure how extensive those ideas are, how far they would go to make up for this insatisibility. [[The president calls.]] We on the board of directors don't have the time to go into the administrations and gather them. [[The president calls.]] That's impossible. Where are we when the government groups can't even do that? .
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u138	A respectable president. When asked a large question, there is little about answers. We always need to know what we will do and what we will do. The price of what we're doing has to be taken care of. I don't see in this policy that it's done because there's a lot of cost waiting for us. It takes building roads to serve tourists. A nursing home needs to be built, and health care needs to be built, and there are a number of expenses that need to be paid. It refers to areas of growth. There's talk of violations built and all of this. We need to consider all of this, but we do not see the place in this financial policy. Hopefully, there is something to be expected in the financial program to contribute in spring so that we can start counting on something of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u139	A respectable president. We're here discussing an important document, the government's financial policy, and I'm going to start by saying it's nice to see how many senators have participated in discussing this policy here and tonight. I think it's important, because, of course, this is an important foundation. When this direction came to the previous discussion, there was very little participation in the discussion, and I was amazed at how few members of the council addressed that discussion, but it has indeed been added here and tonight. I'd like to start by saying that I believe that the laws on government finance on which this financial policy is based are of utmost importance to us. I hear something in the discussion now and also about the previous financial policy of criticism, often being useful, and it can be good, but sometimes you can take it so that all of it is completely impossible. I therefore feel that it is so important that we have entered the course that the laws on public finances direct us, i.e. This is a policy, and here there is a framework, so when the government's actions are called and how the government is going to achieve the objectives it has set up in a government contract and appear in financial policy, and then in the budget for each year, it must fit within this framework. I think it really matters a lot. I know that when these laws were being passed, there was not one agreement that many feared that such a firm could bind the hands of the government too much. I think it's important that this be done because I really care about government matters. I think this approach, which lies in many ways, is realistic. Once I have observed it here, I have not been able to see anyone here actually offer other financial policies. I have not seen any new suggestions from the government in that regard. I think it's a realistic policy. If anything is, maybe it's too pessimistic. We talked about it only when we were in trouble. The legislature Committee whether we could manage to turn the boat around sooner, i.e. Would it be possible to plan on the withdrawal of debt until the plan tells us to do so? We're not actually going to reach the zero point until 2026. That may be one of the concerns I've had. I must admit, though, that yesterday's latest news or tonight, in fact, may be one of the main concerns of whether it is possible to fail. We have discussed some of the swings that the Icelandic economy has experienced. We can say, though, that in the last few years, we have achieved much more stability than history tells us, even though we have gone through some swing. Now we are dealing with increasing inflation and growth, which is still very low in historical context. If there's something I'm afraid that could possibly affect the document we're discussing here and hopefully agree tomorrow or the next few days, it's that external influences would be in some way that we might need to take action. Then, of course, I refer to the situation in Ukraine and how it can affect Europe, where we see the rising energy prices there. We know that part of the reason for the rise in in inflation is imported inflation. We know that our neighboring countries are dealing with inflation. Whether this horrible situation could result in even more serious consequences in this regard, we can be sure. To tell them, I'd also like to say that when we discuss financial policies, you'd like to discuss something even longer. In fact, it is also stated in the public financial law, and by the end of the last terms, we received a report on the challenges to the future in government, and I am very happy. We have taken that discussion here in this hall, they have only been brought forward, these future challenges that we face as a nation, the aging nation has been referred to in it. Not that the nation is growing older and living longer is negative. Rather, it is only a positive development. In fact, there might be more of a pregnancy to compensate for this. Autoindustry and other things have been mentioned. But as I mentioned in my earlier discussion of financialism, it was a huge step we took at the time by law on public finance, to be looking ahead of five years. Before those laws were passed, it was just not done. It was merely working with the budget of each year, which was often done at the end of December. But when we move in this direction that we have done with these laws, you really want to take even more speculation into the future. I think this frame here is good, I see this as a frame, this is a policy, and in our plan we need to stay within this frame. On the other hand, I stress it, and it is not just now under these circumstances, but I feel that it should always be so that we should constantly be reevaluating government expenses. The most significant reassessment of expenses, I think, is important. We should always ask ourselves, " What are we getting for the money? ' It is not necessarily a token of the necessity of animal care and services. It is our job that the fund is not only to distribute money on individual projects but also to ensure that for this money we give the citizens the best of our best services. Then I'd like to come into the rural communities, which, yes, are part of this financial policy, and I agree with the discussion that has developed that it may really have to bring them into this discussion further. We know that the basis for operating too many rural society is completely unsuspectable, so I think we need to see more potent units in our rural communities. So I'm saying that the smallest of our rural communities must unite and become larger units in order to have the ability to provide the vital services that we as a society have decided to have a place in the rural communities, i.e. The close-up service. I was thinking about going back before whatGuðbrandur Einarsson Why? Because he specifically mentioned two categories of affairs that were expensive to the rural community and that were garbage and irrigation issues. You see, I have often said so here in this public discourse and elsewhere that these are lawsuits over which the State should take over. When we discuss the financial status of our local communities, these are certainly expensive support, but these are also projects that are not closer to me. These are large environmental and climate issues, and these are a whole set of issues to be seen across the country to achieve the most practical and reasonable solutions. I'm going to put this idea into the pavilion when it comes to discussing the financial status of my community. I think that every time I've been discussing financial policy here at the council, I've talked about my rural society because they're my favorites, I've been working in that field very long, and I'm very interested in this very important basic service that's on the shoulders of the local community. It is so important that they have material opportunities to do that service well. Now ahead of the election in the countryside, and I may also like to say, as I was present at a meeting in my rural society today, in which there was an act of approval of the Independence Party, and I would like to say congratulations, but I'd also like to say, "Don't go too far in some election code," because it's important to watch out for the time we're living, and people have to wonder about it a lot about it. This is a moral hazard at this time when the election is about to take place. But when we talk about their rural communities, their income stocks are too few and they're too weak, and I think we need to take a deeper discussion about the need for capital gains in some way to go also to rural society. I'm just as much wondering as our future challenges from self - efficiency and from a changed community that capital gains could become larger things, so it's important that our rural communities get to enjoy them too. To put it this way, of course, I sign more of the committee, where I serve as a financial committee and agree with what it says. I must also say that I am looking forward to the soon - to - be financial discussion because much of the discussion that has taken place here tonight is, of course, the work of a financial program in which this policy is broken down on real action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u140	President. But before you heard it, you said why. A senator is afraid of financial expansion, would have liked to have them a little higher, the numbers itself, closer to zero, probably more in plus. It has been observed in recent years in the opinion of financial advice and financial policy itself, in the report below, that the state funds are unsuspectable at the same time as long-term economic growth rates, i.e. No matter what the economy. Then I wonder what. A senator feels worse, is he in debt or is he in debt? The last option is to cut down expenses somewhere. Of these three, what must be done finally to remedy the sustainable problem of the state fund? Finally, we have grown out of the problem, but we have an economy over long - term forecast of economic growth, which we do not come about to maintain forever, meaning that we will swing back and forth. If we pull the bow high, we'll make a pox that goes off, it's just the way it is. Of course, it is good, and it is the purpose of a government law to try to keep at least a swing around long - term economic growth. Because this financial policy does not solve the underlying problem of living, what should we do in the end? Are you going to cut expenses? To strengthen the side of the income? Or should we just stay in the minus?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's right, he's here referring to an answer that I gave to each speech. A senator earlier tonight, where I said, "If anything is, I'm more concerned that we're stopping debt collections too late, i.e. not until the last year of this policy. I repeat, I'm afraid to some extent. I don't think it's a bad thing to get over the state's debt growing each year. To tell them, I also believe that the terms of the money policy and the conditions in the economy are needed at one time. We're coming out of a Covid crisis, and the decision was made that we were going to grow out of it, we were going to take the blow to the state fund. It was a political decision that I believe in the very foundation that most of us have agreed on, whether we have been in a government or a government position. This is exactly the direction shown in this document. So my answer is, if there's anything I'm worried about, it's that we're shutting her down. I still think we're using the right technique. I think Icelanders and other nations learned a great deal from the financial collapse and the action then being taken, i.e. that surgery was too fast. As a result, the economy was much longer recovery from the wave valley. So I think the course we've decided to take here is a coral. But I'm always going to worry when things are growing the debt of the state, and I think we should worry about it. By collecting debt, we are increasing the burden of payment for generations to come. We're collecting debts that our children need to pay. We must not view it in a minor way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u142	President. No, not in the opinion of a financial body, where money - making investments can be made on loans without having a negative impact on the survival of a government fund for a long time. What I've always tried to point out is: Yes, I agree that the long - term negative result is, of course, involuntary, but if there's a certain investment that comes along with long - term, it's totally justified. That's exactly what I feel is missing, and I understood a policy of growing out of the problem in a way that a government fund would take investment plans and add to what would be considered normal to create an extra value, to pay for the resulting angle. However, they were only about to save what could be saved, what could be saved. There was very little effort on the occasion. For example, the newly created emphasis may be pointed out. Of course, they were some, but in the extent possible, they were only a new fracture. We immediately saw this in the distribution of the Technical Development Fund in the summer after the start of Covid. There was a very low share rate in quality work. There are lost opportunities. I saw growing out of the problem as funding opportunities for such opportunities that would increase economic growth beyond normal long - term economy that would then pay for it. Today, however, we are dealing with a balanced trend around equal economic growth, long - term economic growth, which is to be paid in return, which will take much longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I must admit that he started very well, and I understood what he said about a lucrative investment. However, I lost him only when I was sick of the counter, but it may be my fault, not my bad. Senator. I thank him for mentioning that I consider the government's debt to be a concern. I think we're supposed to be covering the state funds because I know these debts will be paid by future generations. But then you're absolutely right. A senator's concern is what he goes on to, and if his money goes into lucrative investments, it's an opportunity to make money for the future, I take my mind off it. I'll give you as an example of a lucrative investment like the Sunway. I also mention the city line that I think is socially a very lucrative investment. But then came a why. Senator into the innovation sector, i.e. the fact that it really has become a fourth foundation in Icelandic economy. He really is, so tell us the numbers. That's even. Because the State has taken very progressive measures to promote innovation in Icelandic commercial life and is not just some fashion term or something that ministers or models use in beautiful talks. We see a truly powerful industry based on innovation and technological development, and I think the government and the government have done a lot of work to secure that development. I completely agree that we should continue to do so. Of course, we can always talk about further development of technology, research, and innovation. Of course, these are priorities, which we will discuss in connection with the budget and budget of each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u144	A respectable president. Now it is clear that in recent years, the government's income base has been reduced by tens of billions of dollars, with unsuspecting tax reductions. As a result, the descendants of the State had grown weak and had made certain mistakes between incomes and pay long prior to Covid. How can you tell? In the years that followed, a senator will consider strengthening the government's income foundation in order to correct this situation? Counts 'em out. A senator, e.g. Is it desirable to raise taxes on the income market and to have the most important groups in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator here will discuss the capital of the state and wonder if I want to raise my taxes to the most afforded, if I understand the question correctly. Hv. A senator should realize that the political party I represent is not that way, no. On the other hand, we've put a lot of weight on it, and I think maybe there's a basis for something that I didn't get to answer. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, before this is the portion of the tribute, which is the portion of the tribute. It's our opportunities when we say here that we're going to grow out of this, that our tax base is going to grow, that our jobs and our economy grow all together. One of the things I mentioned back there was our fourth support, our innovation and technology. Suddenly, we have real support into Icelandic employment, new companies, new jobs. Not only do companies pay high taxes themselves but they also pay high taxes to the employees working for these companies, which are better paid and therefore paying higher taxes. Hv. A senator should be aware of that, but it's fine if I reiterate it. My view is primarily that governments should build here a foundation, so that individuals and businesses can thrive and pay well to the community where we would like to offer a good service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u146	Mr. President. It's a good thing to get a clear answer about this, a reminder of this. Let's talk a little bit better about government income. Now it's got the highest. Business minister, who is using proben, not the secretary of business and banking, but just the secretary of the business, put in ideas of raising bank taxes. Similarly, a minister has suggested that the excess in the ocean soil will be taxed, that there will be an increase in taxation on the ocean's superintendents. I'd love to hear from it. A senator whether these are ideas that she wants, whether she would support ideas in that state, and if she does not feel how she feels about these ideas above her head.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u147	A respectable president. Hv. A senator gives me a great opportunity to discuss an interesting matter that is a bank tax and a tax on the economy. An increase in bank tax is not a good idea for me. I was sitting in the last term on a financial and business committee, and one of the things we're dealing with only them in the beginning was the future of the Icelandic financial market. It was specifically stated, which was called a white book, I'm sure. It was one of the suggestions to lower bank taxes and was given for many reasons because we have a bit wanted to watch the competition or close to the local community, and the bank tax certainly had the effect that financial institutions in this country were under hat other than foreign banks. The situation was then, too, that the state had a full of two of three banks, which aren't exactly there today, and hopefully it's about to change very fast when we finish sales in Iceland. But the bank tax is one of the very things that were considered undesirable, for we would like Icelandic banks to work in the same environment as foreign banks, and many of us have also dreamed that we could see further competition in a bank market, that foreign people would like to enter that market. One of the reasons why the bank tax was not considered to be very desirable was because they were not laid on a pension fund so that the competitive status of bank pensions was not equal when the mortgage was not equal. So I think reducing the bank tax was rather good. Hv. A senator also asked me about the taxes on the global economy, and I have to admit that I find that discussion in chapters very political because of what's super economic? [[The president calls.]] It is also very good when we discuss profits or make money when people look at self - interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What money is in there when people are talking about great profit? [[Take it up for: Ask the minister.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u148	Mr. President. An interesting discussion has taken place on finance policy. I began to recall, when the senators were here throwing it between what was going on and what wasn't, and what should be there and what should not, that we are here to work under the law of public finance that went into effect, if I recall correctly, 2015. I come in here at 2016 and then I'm on a budget board, and we're going to work on that policy, we were in it, on the other hand, on the course of a new government to five years, and then we're going to work on a budget set up annually within the framework of that policy. Well, in the year 2022, we are in the reality that we have not passed through a whole period. There have been a number of traumatic events here, some of which have been completely self - centered, such as the fall of WOW in the fall of 2019, and then not to be so seismic of the modern - day Korean epidemic. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, so there's an extra point between, which I'd forgotten, right now. Senator. So we're not here yet, that I think, to take advantage of the great tool involved. So it doesn't change that the discussion is interesting, and it may just be the exact same as this, not the collapse of WOW and not the crowning epidemic, but this fermentation in how we use these laws. It was a huge change, was and is. I do not have a financial committee, so I do not know the discussion and work that have taken place there in the processing of this document. But I've been watching the discussion today, and I've kind of wanted to come up here and put some points on the table that are related to the work we're dealing with, political colored points. I look only at the sliding and the collection of debts that have been very naturally discussed here. In this government financial policy, the debt of state funds is expected to increase rapidly and will continue to do so until 2026. It is important in this discussion to keep the government's funds in irons before the pandemic. There were certain reasons, specific events that had occurred, and then the door of joy was not very slow when it came to government spending, I'm just going to let me say it. The underlying sale was 2.2% by 2019 and, of course, was reduced to the scope of the state to cope with economic downturns. Thus, the result has actually been worsening since 2019 although we overlook the direct, direct, and indirect expenditures associated with the epidemic. Since then, all operations of the government have been based on increased borrowing. It is true that borrowing related to the response to the Korean epidemic was very supportive here in the Assembly Hall. There wasn't much fine art, and these were just things that had to be done. The situation was to be treated rapidly and effectively, and in many ways it has been successful. Of course, it is time to pay. In such a situation, borrowing is a natural threat to the sustainability of government funds. Although the debt rate is still somewhat modest, in view of some of our control countries, the fact is that the interest rate here is much higher than in the countries around us, and the fact is that interest costs have now become the fifth largest currency in the state's budget. There is no particularly convenient picture to watch, there must be said at the moment. We certainly have a long way to get what was worst after the financial collapse, and I'm just hoping we'll never get it back. The thought of the film that was there in front of me gives me the creeps. But the fifth largest currency, the interest rate, is a fairly large one, and a small population with very small coins simply has difficulty living at that position for a long time. Official debt, according to the evidence, will increase by 70% from 2019 to 2026, and then the scene assumes a further increase in debt as a unchanged income system. Of course, this is to limit the scope and ability of the public to live up to the basic services we all agree that there is a need to be, and if there is something, the demand for such service increases from year to year. But it does not stop the debt as soon as possible, it is a policy. In the financial policy, a debt decrease is to begin after policy expires and after the elected period of the government ends. This alone is not critical. We have considered here that there is also the cost of future generations when debt is so severe that it is paid at the expense of infrastructure or some display. It is as burdensome for future generations that such an investment could take place, just as burdensome as a debt or debt as such. That's what matters, for example. Whether the collection is new to profitable investments or whether we are in a bad place when we are using it to finance a service, something that other business promises to finance our finances. If so, we are truly insurmountable. So it may not change that, despite the fact that the state, I think it may be considered a good way to agree that it would not be wise for the public to go into debt just as steep, such as. and previously known, there is not much fine art when it comes to suggesting how to meet that goal, even though it is after 2026, after this election period, after the completion of the government's work period. The ball is somehow pushed forward unless there is some optimism about economic growth without a line on how that optimism really works. Thus, all plans for this course depend on a highly efficient economy. It is estimated that without it, there will be significant tax increases or even significant cuts. The growth of interest is vital when we have this policy of breathing into debt. We have experienced in the past that huge growth in tourism almost came as a lottery fraud. It's possible that it happens again, that the tourism is flying faster than we expect, but the policy seems to depend on it to happen pretty fast. This includes variables such as the rates of the kroner, which are much higher today than when tourism began. We also live in that during the same period, the pay rate has increased considerably, and of course it affects the possibility of the industry to rebuild, so there is something to consider. If economic forecasts on which financial policy is based should be able to follow, then the development of fertile soil must be guaranteed for the construction of the country's industry. We need a regular work to support our job, but we do not need it to prevent it. This is what OECD has told us. We could have a clearer vision and things could happen a little faster, i.e. that the box around the job life follows some of the rapid structure we are hoping to take place there. I'm not going to stand here and discuss these matters without mentioning the importance of a constant currency and a more favorable environment than we live. We've always had to fight this thing. We are competing with other nations. We are competing for staff, for customers, for business dealings, and we live in a very different environment than the nations we compete with. We also compete with these nations on principle of living and simply create an attractive business environment for an enterprise and an attractive home environment. We continue to point out that a swinging currency is what is most important in preventing the availability of enterprises, especially innovation companies, the foreign investment and the growth environment that comes with the crown, making it even more difficult for them. Member States that the European Union and the euro would greatly increase the likelihood that economic growth of economic policy will not have to endure significant tax increases and cuts in the coming years. I am fully aware that there is a reason why this is not mentioned in the financial policy, but it is important that, when we are discussing a promising way to achieve the public standard of living and the company's management conditions, we discuss these things together, that these things are on the table, too, so we know what we're talking about. To be honest, I don't know what financial policy and financial policies are meant if they don't take these things into account. When it comes to the management of the economy, I'd like to mention only what I saw in ASI's review of financial policy, a severe warning from Iceland's Secret Bank that I'm going to allow myself to read, with the permission of a president: ▪ As economic activity is straightened out after the epidemic and the rest of the nation's nest turns on tension, the late bank feels that there is an urgent need for the stimulation of last year's activities with the highest financial resources and that the goal of losing debt is not to be disfellowshipped so that there will be a steady state. It is a political decision to take these things into account, and I have spent my lung from talking about it, that it is a political decision that was somewhat good for the government, to go down more slowly, but it needs to bear in mind what it can do to continue this course as the process begins. Extensive measures in such situations can cause an increase in in in inflation, and it is still harder to wind up from things. I think it's extremely important, and I suppose financial programs will, to take it even stronger. We'll see her next month or the next month. There are other details there. It's just a thing to keep in mind. Since we live in this immensely fluctuating economic environment, the steps need to be very careful, and the brakes need to be established when it appears that we are losing control. It is one thing to go slowly into debt, and it is another to lose control with the resulting in inflation and expansion of the economy. I may have wanted to mention the income side because we've talked a lot about the sides of debt. We're discussing the need to encourage and it's been shown during the discussion, including the following: When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who discussed that innovation had become a fourth foundation in the economy. It is well for us to see that there is growth. The next step is to arrange for the fertile grain sown on the land not to end up as a flourishing tree outside the rocks but to thrive here on land and to prepare for a powerful business on this land. I've discussed the importance of interest and constant currency in that case. There is another factor related to the revenue of the state fund, and that is our resource policy. I'm just thinking that we need this here, on our resource - related economy, we have a very clear resource policy based on the fact that, once for all time, the people's income should be for that resource, and they have to be running in the sense that I'm sure we have natural resources that we have no idea today that could become a source of money for state funds. But then we have the resources we eat almost every day, e.g. Seafood, but there's more. I think it's just getting really important that we go through these things well and try to make it here together. I say for my deal, talking of taxation, that I would like to see, me and my party, other ways e.g. in the fishing road. We want to see the market route there for the price, but I don't have time to go over it right now. But if there's a tax, if we're on the other hand talking about taxes or payments for earning money, I'm much more impressed with the fact that Icelandic nation, public funds, receives income from laying taxes on the property of the Icelandic people, the country, really, than paying taxes on someone else's income, such as raising income taxes from all authority or from any tax. I'd much rather see this way ahead, so this is an important introduction to the debate on a stronger income base for the state's budget, which this policy is about. There's been quite a talk about rural status. I see I'm running out of time, so soon, I'm trying to choose and refuse, whatever it is that I really want to use the time to talk. A good deal of discussions has been discussed in rural areas, and this has been made clear, especially in the case of members of Congress who have experience and knowledge from rural governments. I just wanted to mention the fact, and again I collect into the envelopes I reviewed, that it was quite critical that this financial policy did not create the basis for social stability and stability of the work market, and if we were to maintain the current well - being, the same arrangements for spending and income sources would lead to a major negativeity of the government. According to a financial report, the long - term prospects for economic and government finance will increase by 1.5% of GDP from 2027-52050, including Because of the huge increase in medical costs due to the nation's aging rate at the same time and the number of working hands is reduced to the level of the government's income markets. These are the major subjects, how we will protect the welfare system under these circumstances. This will help us to take advantage of the time to plan things and to see what will depend on the basic services that we plan to pursue, what will be needed. I have sometimes felt that there was a lack of a comprehensive discussion there. We are busy dealing with important things, but the picture at times remains, that reminder. We're talking about time to 2050, it's just around the corner, so we have to start taking this discussion in the big picture. I think, Mr. President, that I'm going to close this tour, and I have the feeling that it was pretty fragile. But that's just the case. I come very back in a long line of excellent speakers and representatives of the Gaming Committee have done well with the job. Perhaps the big thing is that we are, hopefully, on the final steps of this Korean virus epidemic and are dealing with the government's financial issues, in the shadow of its consequences. This virus was not partial at all, but I think there are indications that the economic impacts have been most devastating. This need to be kept in mind, when we are now living in an increase in debt and balance, that this trend will be reversed so that the emphasis becomes as soon as possible to correct their interests. The password is pre-instruction and transparency in the next steps. I think the big thing is that when the government talks about growing out of the problem, they'll be done in a way that doesn't go down the way we do, that we don't sit here and wait for the next lottery kicks like travel service, but we have a clear view of where we're going to go and how we're going to reach our goal. It must be the mission of all of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u149	Mr. President. I cut my hair off in the speech of the dog. A senator's attitude on resource costs that I would like to put aside a little bit and ask for why. A senator about. It may not be very complicated, but we know of the use of various resources and one of them is heat-powering in the earth or just hot water. We know that access to the quality of life involved in using that energy for house warming and bathing and what we do not do varies between the population. So I'd like to know, in the following words, why. The senator in her speech, if it is, for example. to speak for resource costs of use, e.g. warm water, which would be expected to appear in household energy accounts. I give it to you, Mr. Honorable President that I am not trying to complicate this or to lead the course. A senator trapped in a trap, because I think it might be good for us to see what topics we are talking about in resource costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I was primarily talking about the importance of resource policy in my opinion, so we'd be a bit clear on those things, i.e. how we were going to use these resources of ours, where we'd be paid to use them, and where to pay for them. I know why. A senator is not trying to get things complicated right now, but it's a little big and bigger than getting it right here. But just so I'm absolutely clear about it, and I've been it already to e.g. For example, electronic agreements, it is absolutely clear that the basic obligation of the government and of us here is to ensure national equality. It also applies to their bioavailability and cost of these resources and to their ability to enjoy an equal life - style. That is absolutely clear. So no, neither here nor before, nor will I do so as to contribute taxation, resource costs, or resource policies which include the mismanagement of our resources between the inhabitants of this country when they take advantage of our resources to farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u151	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial policy and financial policies, the expenses of government funds are laid down to some extent, as well as the income of state funds. One of the larger government budgets, which would indeed affect financial policy, long-term government spending policy, is when we are making the budget to settle the country's standard of living, e.g. Through subsidies of distribution costs for house warming and such factors. Like I took those words out of nowhere. A senator, and she made it in her answer that she was more talking about resource policy than taxation, I'd like to leave here in the second, just answer this attitude: why not a resource charge of e.g. use on hot water?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u152	Why not charge the resources with hot water? I'm only available in that discussion at any time, but she'll have to be the kind of person that it's going to work evenly over everyone. I don't know how that move could be. If here goes, for example. becoming a flourishing commercial plant that would make use of this warm water, which would be at the same time a scarce amount of water, and that would be free of expeditation, and that would be passed on from generation to generation, and that would not have been used by others, and the price would be raised on markets, would we not have an undesirable position? This is what I would like to see a resource policy called in. I wouldn't want to talk about this until we went into a real resource policy. I'm not standing here asking questions. A senator, but I just wondered, " How is it possible that we haven't gone to this job long ago? ' I find it almost as remarkable that we don't have long gone to work to set up real tenures for the state. It is really closely linked to this question. Councilman: How do we treat our shares? How do we work with this in the interests of the public? We need a policy on this matter. We just need to talk about this. And again I say that we are sometimes trapped in some old bikes, old debates, old debates, and forget about that game and that game in many ways, I think that it is just much more that unites us than divides when the final goal is to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u153	A respectable president. We're discussing financial policy. I realize it's not a plan, but it's certainly a big picture, and as an vice-constructor of the Stockholm people, I'd like to consider it in the context of what it likes to the people in the country, because our motto is like everybody knows: the people first. Yesterday, I had an inquiry to the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, where I asked for even a few questions. Whether the children were discussed in the lists and the parents were involved in taking the position to see how they were doing and how they handled the wait. V.E.G. A minister answered and referred to the success law that was given last year with great joy. I have to say, when that discussion was all going on here last year, there were a lot of excited people. Of course, as the city councilman watched carefully and for a long time, I felt that it should wait and see if it would go through and if it did, everything would be good. Then the city might just relax a little bit that the State, the State, would come in strong. It's like the highest. A minister repeatedly said in his reply, this is related to the introduction of the successful legislature, where there will be a fundamental change and it will ease third degree of resources and become more familiar with the health care professionals, and then pressure will also decrease, as stated, the need for this excellent legislation to become informative. Meanwhile, my question always came up: Where does the money come from to strengthen all of this and to make sure that there is an introduction? I don't really remember hearing where to get this money, and I have to say that I used to have a lump in my stomach in this discussion, and especially when it was welcomed. But where's the money? It's not the first time we've been making legislation, cool and beautiful, but there's not much talk about where the money should come from. And this is no small thing, we're not talking about any small coins here. It brings to mind the psychological service talk that has been going on for years. It's been 20 years since I was a psychiatrist on the Icelandic Psychologist Association's contract with the state power to negotiate with psychologists, and we know exactly where we are. However, the forced out or guaranteeing of at least 150 million has been successful. c., a natural drop in the sea, almost to be lived in a 24 - hour period. This is always the question of where the money comes from, and we in Floki's people want people to be put first in their lives when it comes to decisions that concern the people of the country and their needs and their service to the people. It's a question of what we want to do with our tax dollars. How do we want to hand it out? Then, if we look to the local community and to the government, it is always the question, How is it done with funds? Are you wasting your time? There's been a lot of talk here about the community business and it's totally great, I think, being there too. Of course, the way rural society handles its capital is different. Some may be careful and take care of their money while other communities play on the money more, and some have talked about quality projects, etc. But rural societies are naturally very different. The situation of disabled persons was mentioned earlier, and, of course, this is the case when it is being given a large task to the rural community that they must follow funding and, as we know, have not been such a student to a small extent. Last day, we were discussing just the balance fund and all that. But if we just watch the NAPA deal, where do we have them? There are a lot of contracts waiting to be picked up at the company, e.g. Reykjavík City, but we're short on funding. So all people who wish to get their NPA deal need to accept that they won't be real. To starve a group in this way will never result in good. This takes even more expenses later, the problem grows, takes on other manifestations, and in the end, expenses would have been even greater than ever had to be handled quickly if the people and their services had been taken care of. That's the way it is. They're a lot of minus and they've been talking about this pretty good today, but I just want to come into the country. There was talk of the garbage business, and it was presented in a talk. A senator said the garbage business is not close service. It's a climate issue. I think they're both. I think it must be. Of course, this is a service to people and climates, and sometimes a number of flies are hit in one blow. It's just wonderful. Of course, this harmony should have taken place long ago. Four years ago, the mayor's proposal was to coordinate and classify organic waste at the site. Then it was laughing, but it's happening right now, and it's more like making it handsome with great ambition. That's good, but it's gonna cost, and how is this going to happen to their worst purse, their least of them? The tents are rising dramatically now, which must be done because of the cost, and of course, they are the most vulnerable to it. Also, a team member has been talking, and this brings my mind to all of these bs. Conspiracy laws. If there's so much settlement needed, then why shouldn't groups be united, and why can't they look to the capital area and unite? Then we won't need settlements. And how are these settlements? It's not much democratic about them. We know very well that there is no financial responsibility in any way to the effects and control of the Community Act, and there have been many in the European Union and have been given a special company to find ways to better invite the owners to their decision-making. It may look a little better, but I don't think the result will be good until some of these rural communities meet together. We also know that some members of the community are not interested in social housing, and it is said that people are being referred to in Reykjavík, where the list is very long, although only strong. Of course, it's a debate that needs to be passed by the Icelandic Country Association, and I've requested a special discussion and a meeting on these matters, as I'm asking how it would be to examine the responsibility of a local community in the capital area in terms of social housing and not just some community members, but all of them. Thus, there are many things to take in connection with this financial policy, and even more exciting to look at is the plan because people really get to see how all of this is going to go out. Nevertheless, this is the big picture, and I have felt that it was really important to sit and listen to this discussion. She's been very informed from this point here, from the state of the Council. To see this coming on both sides, from the kingdom and from the city, is a certain experience. I just want to say that we need to know how we're going to pay for it, that it's not just words and talk in the air. Sometimes you feel that there is some popular competition, especially when it comes to elections, that is to have beautiful words and beautiful bills and try to get them through. Then there may be nothing behind it, and it will not benefit anyone. But I still ask, How is it to finance the promotion of the successful legislature, a huge project that is costly? It would be great to see where to take that money and who it might come down on. This is all from one pocket to another when you are making money unless you have to look at the savings in particular. Then it's just like the people's party wants it to be, that they're the first people to be the most important and other things that aren't exactly the service to the people at first waiting. It is also the children that we must have and that we want to emphasize. The thought of all these children, now I only talk from being a psychologist to more than 30 years of age who has worked with children and their parents, who are on a waiting list for over a year even and how they feel and what happens to them, is incredibly difficult. I know cases where children have suicidal thoughts because of discomfort, and these figures from the governor's office, from the health care department, about the worsening feelings of children in Covid - you just get scared. I feel like it's playing around here on fire. Who wants to play this game? I'm not holding any of us here, either at council or in town. It's not enough to say that this is a task we're about to take, that it's gonna be done, and that it's gonna be a basic change, that's gonna all come together. I want a precise schedule. I want to know the exact cost, and I want to know where to take this money, so it's some serious thing. I know too much of it, including. from the city, that there are endless beautiful and cool paths, you get quite tears in the eyes of reading those paths, but then you ask yourself, "Where is the real world?" When will this be done? Just saying it's a project we're going to do isn't enough. The project must be proved and how to finance it so that it will be credible and in order for the people of the country to trust in government, that they are doing things, and that they are going to do things they say they're going to do. A respectable president. I'll make it count for a while. There are many things to take, but everyone here is tired and wants to go home. I want to thank you very much for this discussion, and as I said earlier, it has been very interesting and experienced to listen to all these good things. Senators speaking here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u154	President. I'm gonna slide over and finish my committee opinion. I had come to think of a financial body and was going to run over what would happen to the Covid debt and think of more parts. But I'd like to start with one thing I was thinking about why. paritaprevir The powers of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who was wondering what suggestions we would make in our government. Then I began to dig more in these numbers, which I received every year on the price of 2022, trying to examine how expenses and income were developing in terms of the proportion of GDP. Over a period of financial policy, expenses are falling as a proportion of GDP. The share of expenses according to land production is reduced. This is normal because the cake is growing. All right. But what I don't understand is that the income part is growing as a proportion of GDP is growing. I'm sorry, I'm going to be absolutely sure I'm saying this correctly, as follows: The expenditure as a proportion of GDP is falling from 31.95% to 29.87%. Less share, same expenses than bigger cake. There are now 26.7% of GDP, 952 billion of 3,565 billion produced by national production. Then the income gradually increases, 990 at the next year, over 1,000 2024, almost 1,100 in 2025 and over 1,100 2026. But they have become 29% of GDP. The share of income in GDP increased, but without some sort of increase in tax returns. To illustrate: We have 30% taxes, huge flat, and there are 100 billion in GDP. That's 30%. If the GDP increases to 110% and we still have 30% tax, we still pay 30% of the gross domestic product. The percentages don't change unless we raise the tax. The resulting crowns increase because the domestic product increased, but the ratio remains unchanged, 30%. But here, in view of these figures in financial policy, the ratio is to increase, and I don't know where that comes from because there's no pay policy on increasing taxes. I poked in an executive for this, and maybe he's wearing an committee writer's bell and see if there's any answers to this, because it wasn't covered at the Committee job. This is part of what I was working with the budget board, trying to get the figures that were on the budget each year in the national budget of 2022 so that the figures in the national budget could be compared with the figures in financial policy and the numbers that are considered to be greater. After you've added this up and shared your income and expenses as a proportion of GDP, we'll suddenly find that your income increases proportionately. I don't understand how that happens. I can't wait for the answer to that question, and I hope it comes, since we're just about done. But let's just dive in the opinion of a financial body. I say in my opinion that the opinion of a financial body will explain itself, but it is necessary to draw up some emphasis in the opinion of the Council on this matter. The report states: There is no agreement between a government contract and financial policy. Governments have proclaimed that the economy will grow to prosperity with a positive effect on the survival and debt of the public. Their views are not directly referred to in donated financial policy and are not in the spirit of baseline transparency. This statement from a financial body sums up the financial agenda, according to my opinion. After all, government policy in public financial matters is nothing more than secretiveness. That's one thing they say in the government contract, and then when you get financial policy in your hands, you don't feel the policy that the government was put together. Moreover there says, and is the same criticism as I had before in answer: However, at the same time as economic growth is desirable, it must be explained how governments intend to do so and what public funds are generally able to promote sustainable growth over heads. There is a need for deeper and more extensive coverage. This is totally fraught with my discussion of the national context of financial policy that governments completely avoid. The opinion of the financial body also states: Despite the turmoil that the economy has gone through in recent years, only public financial status can be said to be good, especially compared with many other countries and past. A financial body believes that here the legal code that applies to government financial policy and shapes the practice, still proving its value. Here, however, I disagree with financial advice, and I think that the situation has been good on the surface only in spite of government financial laws, since the law was not valid until 2015, after most of the lines were placed on the payment of stability property. And while the state's debt was good after the stability project and the tourist wave, there was a great underlying need for maintenance and building, which I mentioned in the discussion of the budget of 2019 as a debt of infrastructure. After that debt, growth costs are undisclosed, but it would likely have an impact on the priorities of debt spending. If caring for maintenance is more profitable because it takes more time to ignore that assignment than to pay off interest on pure loans, then, of course, money should be added to maintenance rather than to pay off a clean financial debt, making money from it for a longer period of time simply more money. Paying down the wood debt would be more practical, i.e. if we had the numbers in front of us, the choice we don't have. I do not object that public financial law has had a positive effect. But there are still many things to be done, except for the induction of certain standards for accounting. The main impact is, in fact, just a more detailed analysis of economic conditions, which is positive and is highly involved in the financial sector, which lacks complete follow-up into government policy, how the government's policy meets economic conditions on the baseline standards. Government policy simply does not meet that law on public financial matters. Then I refer to quoted text from a financial body that says similar things. Since the epidemic began, a decline in government management has been borrowed. In this financial policy, it is expected that this will happen, and by 2026, where the contribution of the Kingdom Fund will be at 35 billion dollars. leaning on the price of 2022. I believe that the contribution of the State Fund will be positive, not because of government policy, but in spite of government policy. The presentation presented in a contribution to financial policy is their opinion of the government's policy. Of course, no logical support is involved, as is attributed to the opinion. What we stand for then at the end of this financial policy is a debt of 2,138 billion dollars, except for an unfunded pension debt, which was about 746 billion dollars. at the end of 2020, with at least not reduced since then, and commitments due to the IL Fund of apartment loans to an additional 200 to 250 billion. That brings us to 3,200 billion, something like that, in reality, the gross production of land as it does one year almost. What is missing in the government financial policy that claimed to be growing out of the epidemic crisis is an explanation for how to do so. In contrast with our last crisis, where we had possessions that were set aside that were to enter into the debt set aside by the collapse of the bank, the government did not receive any property at its expense as a result of the epidemic. In this crisis, funds were poured into keeping companies under cover. There is no plan on how that funding comes back, except simply hope for better economic growth, etc., which I don't see to be extremely important, you just cross your fingers and hope it will be that way. The promise to grow out of the problem must mean an increase in more than long - term economic growth in some way, so that the investment in the past pays up accumulated debt while normal long - term economic growth is a longer - term improvement in the standard of living. Otherwise, we're borrowing from future generations. It would have been natural, therefore, to display a prospective self - worth picture until they are paid down to normal proportions. A trend without action would have to be shown in order to increase from the epidemic and how government action will affect that development. But if governments cannot even contribute a pay and pay policy for the next five years, of course, it is not possible for them to estimate the evolution of debt for an extended period of time. The Magisterium puts it this way, with the permission of a president: The proposed policy is not a matter of how the debt rate will be reduced when the laws of the law return. In spite of the government's plans, the decrease in debt process will begin beyond the period of contributing policy, in view of baseline sustainableness, the appearance of the government's application in the process of policy. I don't have enough time for everything in my opinion, but I'd like to say, finally, I'd like to agree with the financial Council for the need for a deeper and more extensive discussion of government policy. The laws on public financial matters deal extensively with the duties of governments to support their policy based on baseline security, stability, sustainability, and transparency. The need for such reasoning is rarely greater than just in an economic crisis. I think it's the responsibility of the greater part of the budget to stand by the Senate's financiership of the government. In view of the greater part, we will discuss the need for visual analysis, the need for further attention on public projects, and the need for more comprehensive outcome criteria if economic development becomes more positive than predicted. If the majority is serious about these indications, then the council should not issue financial policies until this indication is answered. Financial policies are not presented each year, such as financial planning and budgets, which can be done better next year. It's the financial policy of the present government for the entire election period. This financial policy provides no insight into the development of public funds during this ideal period. I recommend that policy be turned back to the government, and therefore I do not propose a formal adjustment proposal. I recommend it, and I hope that the more part will take it to heart. There's nothing more complicated than that. Other than that, I agree to a joint declaration of 1, 2 and 3, and an audience on the committee, as I mentioned earlier. President of the Committee is back here in the Senate Hall after hopefully a suitable conversation with the Economic Committee that is always bothering us at night, when we are finishing financial policy at 10:30 p.m. Always plan. I hope to get some ideas about why the State Department of Business is increasing by more than 2% over the next five years without any particular policy on growing income farms. At least I thought it would be inexplicable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u155	Mr. President. It's a fairly special teamwork, but it's fine and it's working hard. A senator on a budget board is usually all right. There is an excellent teamwork, and it is natural for us to think about it. I'd like to start with the first thing in my previous answer to the question. Senator, I also believe that we will rise faster and that the economy will grow faster. Until today, I had faith. Then there is more world war today, and it can have a powerful effect here with us too, so let us not ignore it. But in general, I think there's more power to ask than we necessarily can see and the predictions that have been seen, after the Senate showed up, speak in that very direction. Today, we actually put financialism ahead of percent or values. The budget is then working to figure out which numbers we're talking about, but the proposal itself is not published in numbers. There are some financial programs waiting to be discussed this spring. I'm trying, after consulting with those who are working with us, to figure out where the senator brings up this information on income and expenses, because we don't break it specifically in the opinion and not in the table we published, where we try to make the percentages. My answer to what? Perhaps a senator is just asking him to explain just the image he is trying to draw out from this table so that I am better prepared for the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u156	Thank you. The majority of the members are listed in this table where financial policy is in place of proportions. The next year's national interest project shows gross domestic product on the price of each year. I sent some committees questions: How can I calculate this on the price of the year 2022 so that it is comparable to the numbers in policy management and then the table in the opinion of the greater part? I know the cost, and I know the income in budgets of 2022, and I can count it for 1% for cost interest. I can see what the national product is in the years to come, and I can cut down the expenses after the cost raise, the increase that is supposed to be at the state's budget to earn the income that needs the expenses needed to get the right minus. Then I can take that income and share it with the interest of the gross domestic product that I pulled out of this work with the Committee editor, and see what the income ratio is of the GDP. I take this step by step to try to get the overall context of how the policy works. And this is the result. I know that committee writers asked the Haust Office, because it didn't quite work out at first hour, and the Hag even gave it to the final transmission of the commissions, 5 billion or something like that, by the end of the season. However, it is not the amount that alters the 2% difference in the proportion of gross domestic product between 2022 and 2026.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u157	Mr. President. Kind of so I don't have the same pill as that. A senator is witnessing. It is not part of the greater committee program, so I must be ashamed that I do not have the same evidence and the same breakdowns as that of the dog. A senator in his question. However, my answer is reflected in the table published by the committee in the majority of the hosts, where figures are put behind the proportions or percentages, that during this period there will be an expansion of the activities of the Covid pandemic and the economy will be extended. This conclusion is ultimately seen in the better supply of the Kingdom Fund as the time of the forecasting process passes. I think, yeah. A senator and a respectable president, that we don't waste this discussion here, she has much more to do with the financial agenda itself. I'm getting close to this because I'm just getting closer because it's being mixed up with this - a respectable president, I don't know what term I'm supposed to use for it - a better supply of state funds, with increasing national resources, a strong economy, and because it reduces the measures taken during the current year because of the Coron virus epidemic. Hence, a better contribution is made to the wealth of the Kingdom and, to some extent, to the extent of its breakdown. A senator refers to, but I haven't seen that table and I don't know how it's made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u158	President. Yeah, look, okay. Hv. A senator does not have this table. I had already taken part of this table in an effort to figure out the context, and now I won this calculation - was merely understanding them in the discussion about other questions. Senators answer. So I wondered if a financial committee should not look at these data, this information, before we settle the policy, just to make sure this works. Let's just say it's like I say--I'll quite admit that the excel-can screw up in some way. It's not too complicated, but you're here late at night and stuff like that. Let's just say that the proportion of revenues of GDP increases by more than 2% over the five years without a trend for more income, beyond just taking the same proportion of larger cookies - higher income in the dollars, but higher income in proportion is a different matter. I don't know exactly how it works, but I suggest that the case be reimbursed for a vote. I don't know how it stinks, whether it needs to be interrupted or how it works. At least I find this interesting because 2% of GDP extra in the relative income is no small thing and something I think would have to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. His second speech. I totally agree with what. A senator that I believe we're going to pay off debt faster than financial policy shows. I am very optimistic on the part of the Icelandic economy over the years and in the direction it will take for the next few years. I think there's going to be a big growth, big growth, in the years ahead, and we can take an example in historical context. After the Spanish influenza and the first world war, there was an enormous rise in Icelandic society, but I believe that it is a policy taken by an Icelandic community rather than a government policy. We've got a pretty weak centre, but we've got a strong community and that's what's going to drive this thing. There are questions when this growth begins and we have to pay off debts. I'd like to state that we are today teaetically speaking, breaking rule 7. that debt is less than 30% of GDP. They'll be 49.6% at the end of the period and then we should start paying off immediately by 5%. We are in a very unusual situation right now. When the situation begins, it is important that we eliminate poverty and disability for the poor and the elderly. In a board of committees why. A senator, considered to be a 3rd minor, takes a heavy look at the income policy and the remuneration policy and lists to five teams the income policy and three teams in the remuneration policy. I didn't read any particular policy there, but there were plans for a course. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does he read something from the pay policy and the income policy, or the pay policy specifically, that there is to be a greater need for welfare, to contribute more to the poor and the elderly to defuse the revenues, and to eliminate the poverty traps? Does he see anything in financial policy that will increase the consumption rate in such a way that we do not need to be in discussion at the end of the period of poverty in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u160	A respectable president. It is very clear in the pay policy that there are about 1% actual actual growths per year. All calculations tell us, based on demographic trends in the aging of the nation, that the vast majority of the increase is becoming part of the health system and the pension system. Then there's not a lot left in a pensioner's pensioner's compensation, it's just actually growing because of them. The answer is very simple: No.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm sorry to hear that the answer is no, because I think we're going into an enormous economic growth, and then we have to deal with the problem of poverty in Iceland and poverty traps. The society is far too small to endure the fact that 30% of the people live in poverty, so I don't talk about the poor and the elderly. For example, many workers who work secularly do not get to enjoy themselves and try to make their own lifestyles, find out where they can work, and how they can earn money without going to the limit immediately. There was a review of the social security system. This revision was used for Christmas as an excuse for waiting, up to be stopped, about this series of lawsuits. This does not mean starting by evaluating disability and then saying what they can do. They are to find out for themselves what they can do by going to the labour market and trying hard, those who will and have the power. In the years that I consider this matter to be of utmost importance, financial policy needs to reflect it. I don't see it in financial policy. Also, I do not see in financial policy that the land hospital will have to be subsidized, for example. We saw it on the budget last time, and it's definitely going to show up in the budget, that there's a need to put more money in it. The question, though, is: See what? In some part of financial policy, a senator is suggesting that we are not subsidizing the Land Hospital and the Health Organization? That we are actually going to take on this black spot in Icelandic society. The party I represent was formed to fight this issue, and it will probably live longer than financialism and debates about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u162	President. There's a chance this can be won. There's a 1% increase in expenses that could cover the health system, maybe a little more. Depends on how close we are to 1%. If it's 0.7%, it's only the health system, but with 1% it's a medical system plus something, probably an increase in the pension system. Another would have to be financed by some kind of spending limitation in other areas of matter to increase them to the pension system or something like that. There would then have to be sideds within the box, not growing expenses or anything like that. We can only see this in financial matters. There is no sign of any change in financial policy, and there is no need for that to be done there. That's actually the big picture of the total frame and how income, possessions, debts, expenses, etc. influence the big picture. Then comes the careful implementation of government policy in a financial program regarding measures in individual language areas and litigations. It's a chance, but it would mean contraction somewhere. It may be less publicized when the Landspians finish, that projects will be reduced, and that they will begin to promote something like it or something like that, but we have to see in a financial plan how it goes out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u163	Mr. President. I was just going to come up at the end of the discussion and thank you for it, but then I thought it was part of the rosary. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson would also have asked for the word. So it may not be the final discussion. However, I will not fail to be grateful for my participation in this discussion. It has also been fine materially. What I may feel is that most of us members of the council have the expectation that the economy will take on faster and better, but we may be applying in this suggestion, which is then a cautious plan that will prepare the direction that is being discussed. The policy is displayed by percentages, it is not displayed in the amount. Thus, it is not really a matter of trying to break it down on income and expenses in such a way as to pay. A senator was describing how he had been working today. By that time, it should have been revealed much more clearly in his committee. In spite of these speculations, which are all well worth paying for, we are not negligent about the Congress arrangement. It seems to me quickly, when you start trying to figure out how to handle this case, that you may be mixing a little bit, taking the cost stock at the price of 2022 - and - a - half - a - year price. A senator will react when he gives his talk in the following - extrapolating his expenses. However, policy spending is primarily on straddled expenses and 1% on them, but not on these irregular factors. We are hoping and assuming that large budget mails such as the automotive equations are gradually subsidizing with economic recovery, less unemployment, etc. So that spending number is not a good basis for making progress in the way I felt it was. A senator is trying to do so in his speech. The key point is that in general I feel that I have believed in the economy and in the belief in strong resistance and that the financialism discussed here, in the circumstances and in the predictions behind it, is quite credible. I want to finally thank you for this discussion. There is therefore nothing to be neglected to take the initiative here for release, a respectable president, as recommended by more of the legal committee, and that it will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-22-39.u164	A respectable president. Sorry about that. Here, I'm just giving an excel speech. It can be fun. If I reduce the cost rate to 0.35 percent, I still have a 1.5% increase in income, i.e. I'm not counting a 1% increase in all of the government's expenses and going down to 0.35%. Now it was 0.7% for ASI. Let's say I only double it on the staging expenses. Then I should be well up to the goals mentioned there. Then we are talking about a total of 1,139 billion, 1,140 in reality the following year, an increase that is nothing at all, some billion between years. However, because GDP is growing to such high levels, income still totals 28.1%. Let's at least look at this on a budget board and talk about it there. I think that's interesting. Although the financial policy is presented in this frame, they were being developed in the opinion of the greater part to put it in numbers compared with what numbers are in the national economy. It contains the domestic product in raw centenarians. So, you can actually aim at the numbers, take the ratios in financial policy, and look around. what it would be for billions. I suggest that we pop this up on the board of committee writers, show us a little bit of how it looks, the next legal hearing or something like that. I think it would be useful. Other: Thank you for the discussion, and that's just how we do it.
