ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u1	As the president reported at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, it had been reported that Guðrún Helgadóttir, former president of the United States, had died the night before, on the night of Wednesday, on March 23, 2022, in the nursing home of a long - term illness of 86 years. Guðrún Helgadóttir was born on September 7, 1935, in Hafnarfjörður, where she had a strong roots and a large family. Her parents were the husband and Ingigerður Helgi an Guðlaugsson, a sailor's husband. She completed a student's exam from the University of High School in Reykjavík, 1955, and soon after that, she became a high - school minister for about a decade. From 1973 onward, Guðrún was the head of the Department of Social Affairs and Information at the State's National Security Agency until it was elected to a seat at the World Council of December 1979. However, her political career began the year earlier when she was married in the city of Reykjavík, where she was one of the ideal times. At the General Assembly, it remained until 1995 and once again in the spring of 1999. Together with other jobs and later Congress, Guðrún Helgadóttir wrote and became known nationally to his children's books, especially the books on Jón Oddur and Jón Bjarni, who first came out in 1974, who were very popular among the people. For that reason, she and her political leaders, both in the city council and in the Council, were interested in her wherever she was. No doubt, by means of a mismanagement hearing, it played a major role in the approval of the Common Community at the mayor's election in Reykjavík, 1978. After the total election of 1987, Guðrún I became vice president of a united assembly, and after the reign of the fall of 1988, she became President of the United Assembly of Women and then became the vice president of that government. The chair was held until the election of 1991, and one of the vice presidents of the Generals was the elected period. During the Presidency of the Guðrún Helgadóttir, significant changes were made in the General Order and confirmed after the 1991 election, i.e. disintegration of the council and the formation of new councils. Guðrún herself promoted changes in the council office, including hers. in addition to other reforms, the Bureau of Committees to assist members of the Parliament in their work. As a member of the General Assembly, Guðrún took the most interest in health and insurance matters, knowing well about, the affairs of children, culture, and so forth. She actively participated in the international work of members of the Parliament, especially in northern society, until she became president of the United States, and later served on the EFTA Congregation Committee. Guðrún Helgadóttir dissuaded from Congress at the election in 1995, but he was a substitute for the next term and was again taken to heart at the end of 1999, when the main man resigned. It was that ideal period, too, in a radio council and insurance council. She was sitting at 22 legislatures all over the city. Despite two decades'work on the front lines of politics and confidential positions in that field, the Guðrún daughter of Helgadóttir will be the least writers. It was rewarded for its books and won a place as the country's most famous children's author. Its books will be read for a long time to children, and children and adults will also read them as a delight. During her life's responsibilities as a senator, Guðún Helgadóttir kept up with what else she had in her life. She was quick to criticize what she thought was unjust and faultfinding in the community, but she was always kind in cooperation, rash, selfless, and many friends. She was president of the United States during a period of political conflict, so she was honored by a government official and made an earnest effort to be a senator. To that end, she even gave up. will make the first strategy of the Council in 1988. I request a council assembly to remember the former president of a united General, Guðrún Helgadóttir, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u2	To answer, Minister of Economics, Environment, Energy and Climate, Minister of Culture and Business, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u3	Mr. President. Today, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, one of the government leaders, has declared that the nation should have a larger share of the sea resources. He says that taxation is necessary for great economics in the seaside, and therefore he joins another minister of the Department of the Ministry of the Government. It's certainly a fairly new tone with one of the government's pointy minds, but the Conspiracy celebrates this turn of events. Such a case cannot be found in a newly developed Constitution, but I'm sure it may end much more of it as measured by the fair interest of the marine resource. That is why I simply want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance only to the following words: Has increased the taxation of heavy economics in the sea been formally discussed at the government table? How do Ministers comfort themselves over these ideas of their fellow government? And can we expect the government to contribute either to such taxation, or even to increase the spells of hunting fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u4	A respectable president. It's a big case this is asking about, in fact, the fish fishing system and charge for access to a limited resource. We are going to have one price today, actually depending on whether we're talking about fishing for fish or fish fishing, regardless of the size of fishing. And here's the problem: if we want to raise the fishing fee for having a large production, and it's going across every cast, the smaller members are going to have to sweat. They will suffer because they do not enjoy the practicality of their size. We saw this very well in our time when investments stopped in Iceland's productions in the history of the Joanna government. The rise in hunting costs was very steep, and all investments were halted in this article. Today we have a rule that will take about A third of the fishing trip or the survival of each fishing trip returns it to the state in a fishing fee. But we don't have any special taxation on the global economy, like this one's in here. All I need to do is get better information on what's meant when people are talking about the financial cost and particularly taxing it. Is it when the recovery has become some sort of talent? I can't quite figure out what they're talking about here. I think, however, that as we want to further demand to gain a larger share, which will be required to the state, the requirement will be that, according to what we would like to have greater efficiency, which, in turn, will appear to us politicians who say goods here and where and fewer and fewer, and smaller, and smaller, and large numbers of people, can survive in these circumstances because we have put one priority, which is the highest profit factor in this article. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u5	Mr. President. It can be implemented in various ways, depending on the different sizes, but it was two minutes to answer: No, it doesn't agree with the head of the Agency. Then it's clear. But because of the highest. The secretary of finance seems to be in some doubt about what is superintendent, and it is expected to create a definition of a stretching concept, that Brim gained about 11.3 billion in the last year, paid 900 million in hunting fees but is paying off 4 billion for his money. Likewise, the $11 billion - in - the - cost Filtering industry pays 531 million in fishing, but it's going to pay 3.4 billion in cash. We know that fishing costs do not even depend on control and extravasation of the resource. A scientist in these numbers, he's the highest. Secretary of the budget that these two companies are available?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u6	A respectable president. I ask myself why. A senator does not want companies in general to pay taxes by size? Or is it only in the amount of payment that men should pay their taxes? I don't completely understand the ideologies that are behind us. Do I think it's possible to change the hunting fee system? Yeah, I spoke, for example. ... whetherwe should not consider looking, rather than going deeper into the fishing fees of Iceland's producers, using a special income tax that would be a message to the publishers of Iceland that they should try to do the best, we would take our profits' worth. But these numbers are like what we're talking about. A senator would like to include the discussion completely without regard to financial commitment, roll, etc. Why not talk about profits as a proportion of money? Why not admit that when a person pays his own money, a tax to the State will come to 22%? Why not mention that 20% of our profits come to the state? [[The president calls.]] It is not only the fishing fee that returns to the state but also the tax paid, and it does not pay for the tax, as it were. There seems to be a senator, 900 million when it comes to 11 billion profits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u7	Keep this speech before the chairman of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u8	The president asks why. speakers and the highest. Minister to respect the duration of the discourse, which is limited in both queries and comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u9	Mr. President. 70,000 million foam floated up into Reykjavík City accounts. Flirting is a reevaluation of social facilities carried out on market prices instead of doing so at cost prices, such as the rules of accounting for uninvestable investments, which end up in social resources. ESA, the EFTA Office of Monitoring, has twice sent a letter to the head of the agency requesting support from the bank accounts of the city of Reykjavík, which may be in violation of international accounting standards. To date, as previously said, the city's subsidiary has considered its real estates to be a standing price rather than a price. If the organisation is forced to change the method of assessment, it could lead to a high 70 billion dollars. Substitution of the value of real estate. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretarys whether any assessment has been made on the basis of the effect that these 70 billion foam is being moved to the right of the city's books, whether any analysis has been performed on its effect, and whether a financial monitoring committee has the power to handle a project such as receiving the city of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u10	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I don't know the details of this case and I don't intend to pretend to be a legal accountant to determine which method is better to give a clear, clear picture of the economy. However, it is usually the responsibility of accountants to write down that the account gives a clear, clear picture of the situation in business and economy. It sounds like a reason. Yet, a senator is touching a huge language that has meaning. In recent years, we've been working things that way in the state that we've been introducing international accounts and we've been trying to increase transparency. We have been taking into account things that have been out of account, as we know of the apartment loan fund, and we have therefore put special emphasis on facing commitments and the real value of possessions. We've been building a government account that didn't exist before. We've been trying to evaluate the value of the assets, as this example is about, in order to determine whether new investors work on the rights of writing and whether we're going to the State's possession over time. Looks like it's what. A senator may be moving a case that turns only to Reykjavíkurburg, and as I said before, I do not know how to determine if a surveillance committee is needed or if ESAs are right. Actually, it's a little Spanish to me to see that ESAs have an opinion on this. I would have thought it was now creditors and other members of the country who had financial interests in Reykjavík City who wanted to have opinions about how this city settles. [[The president calls.]] But this is the best answer I can offer. A senator up to the top, i.e. that I am a spokesman for the right interpretation that gives clear and clear picture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. This is directly stated in ESA's letters to the government, not Reykjavíkurburg, that property used for social housing, which also produces income despite the market prices, is considered to be examples of property falling outside of definitions of investment and that such property should be registered in accordance with property that is assessed at cost. Then I'm just gonna pray to the highest. A minister in part to see if the financial management committee is in position to handle this project because it is a huge issue. There are accountants who have more experience in accounts than the one standing here and the highest. A fellow minister who claims that the money money in Reykjavík is unsuspecting. So I ask: Has there been any consideration of the impact such a situation would have on my community's financial resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u12	A respectable president. Wait a minute. A senator being content to say that I take this indication seriously, and I'm going to be aware that somewhere in the management system is being checked for these indications, which I find as an indication of how to make an account, what surprises me, in particular is that ESAs monitor these things, which may be just my ignorance of teaching. But I'm listening to it for a while. A senator says, and I think it's important that we respond to such indications. I don't know if the review board has a chance to handle such a big deal. But sometimes it is that while the size of the language is very large, the underlying concept is simple, and perhaps it is just as simple as that of a dog. A senator was describing here, by pointing back to the ESA's conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u13	President. Eelphnes use organic waste to burn on the stake on a large scale. Metagas is an eco-friendly product wasted instead of using it. Now that we are on our way into the energy exchange, it is shocking to see how we waste such an eco-efficient product instead of making extensive use of it on cars. During the war in Ukraine, oil prices have risen and are confident that further increases will occur. More importantly, Iceland will become sustainable in energy production using its own production and eco-friendly energy available in unsolved amounts. Waste has failed to market statistics alone, and we are unable to get the record public. That's where the state needs the highest. Environment Minister to use it, otherwise this eco-friendly energy source will continue to be wasted on a large scale. Akureyri has set a good example when it comes to the use of metals and has been able to do well while incineration as if there were no tomorrow in the capital area. Does a minister agree that it is necessary to make better use of the values collected at the village? And would the Minister support cooperation between state and rural society to find solutions to the evaluations for energy exchange? As we all know, village is a settlement, with six societies, Kópavogur, Hafnarfjördur, Garven, Mosfellstown, and Seltjanarnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. I've done so myself, this was shown in the report, in the Greenbook on the energy situation. It says on page 84, with the permission of a president: ▪ Metan is produced in two locations in the country. The village gas station produces 3 million Nm3 of estimate every year. The estimate is sufficient to drive some 4,000 - 6,000 people or about 100 buses. North energy produces about 250 thousand Nm3 annually from the old glass valley filling that drives about 8 public cars and a number of cars. The production capacity of methadone is about four times higher than the use of metal vehicles in the country. I have to admit, I just don't understand how this situation can be. I think it's so amazing. It's obvious that we're not going to use this on the whole car fleet. Here's a energy source that's been very effective. Actually, I just got back from Akureyri, and that's where it's a hell of a role model. There they only use all the appreciated they can, and there they walk in this sector with a fine example. A respectable president. I've considered it my job, not just as an environmental, energy, climate minister, but in general, that you're trying to work with people, not to tell them what to do. But why on earth does the city of Reykjavík not use this estimate? It's a complete mystery to me. Or the rest, who are many and who can take advantage of these things? Because it's there, like a cot. A senator referred to, and there's nothing to wait for. It works, it's done in Akureyri, but it's very small in here. Here is a completely ruined opportunity, not to be taken deeper in the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u15	A respectable president. As city councilman in my section, the person standing here has been beating and fighting in this case for four years at the city council and has not received any listening from the greater part there, the Conspira, the largest category, and on the left of green, which has been in charge and is now in village, but all know about Gaja and the terrible mistakes there have been financial failures. A clean, big mess. So I'm standing here wishing for the best of the team. Environment Minister, to come to help and try to bring understanding to those groups who are now directing the city and who will do so only a few more weeks. This isn't working anymore. We can't even watch that we're wasted. This is plain and smart stupidity, and if the largest part of the mayor is not better done than being unable to do something about it, then the government needs to come in here and help. It's called for government assistance in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u16	A respectable president. I think the point of the matter is, of course, that the situation is not acceptable in this way. A senator said that he was fine. This isn't exactly the level of the record right here, but it doesn't change my attention when I read this in the report. For the last time I knew, people had a very ambitious aim to use the record and we know it, I've only got one good friend who's been on a record car for ten years and he's only working really well, that there were ideas about it at Reykjavík City to use these obvious opportunities. I will, of course, do what I can to encourage people to use what is there, because we're looking forward to a huge project when it comes to climate. Many assignments are easy, and they are just there. It takes nothing more than a political will to make good use of what we have. I'm just hoping that it might be, and maybe this discussion will be held here as a matter of course. A senator had some effect. Let us hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u17	President. When plans to sell Iceland banks were first published, it was assumed that no more than 25% of the bank stocks would be sold. So it turned out that 35% of the stocks were sold. The sale was strongly criticized by the government opposition and the reviews of experts, especially by subjugation and the lack of logical support, in order to develop a competitive attitude. Finally, the bank stock grew after the sale more than 50% in six months and competed with the government, and everyone who had recommended the sale, saying that it had been a very successful sale. It's just self-diving at the most. Experts in this issue aim to indicate that at such primary invitations, there is an increase of 51⁄2-10% in the rate of success. And what does this mean in the context of this sale? This means that about 30 billion were released from a government fund. For last year's sale, a minister said that a maximum price was not the focus, but in a memo and a minister's proposal to the Council was one of the main goals of government sales: to maximise the recovery of state funds from holdings and selling items. In view of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, it was clearly stated: U.S.A. accounts for government sales of items in Iceland banks include: The reduction of the State's risks of financial assets, the support of more active competition and, at the same time, maximising the restoration of the state of government from the holding of financial institutions. By means of the sale, the need for loans can be reduced, improving his credit ratings and strengthening the position of the state of the capital markets. This will increase the scope of the state funds to carry out a lucrative future project. Whatever the minister may say, it was one of the main objectives, at any rate, to maximise the restoration of the state funds. In fact, there were 30 billion different market prices. The Kingdom received 55 billion, which should have been 85 billion. How can a minister say that the sales were successful when the government fund lost 30 billion dollars??
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u18	A respectable president. Of course, it is one of the goals of the state's funds at sales in Iceland to maximise the recovery of sales. It is public, and it has been our clear goal to do so. But we did not want to put it as the sole purpose of the sale. Those who would have put up with it as their sole goal would have offered the whole bank to sell to any buyer, it would have been simple, and the highest available. We didn't want to do that. We wanted to emphasize the importance of having a healthy possession, distributing property. We started out on a public discharge and were very successful, so we noticed, probably the largest private development in Europe last year. This recently released shipment is one of the largest in history, not only in Iceland, but this year in Europe. So when comparing these goals, you need to decide whether the overall result is in harmony with the proposed result. We got investors who wanted to hold the item for a long time, e.g.? Is the distribution of property desirable to one's head? Is it wise to stress the pursuit of foreign and domestic parties? I'll say yes to all these questions. In this we are saying that the price is not one thing, but we received, both last year and last, the invitation that has just been completed, a very good price, received the price that was in force today in January and February and was the highest price the bank had since then registered. In the meantime, the payment of money went to about 129, after the payment of money, is hardly equal to 123 gangs, and we sell to 117 with a maximum discount of 4.1%, which is only very well done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u19	President. The minister says that the purpose of distributing property was, but as the council put it, the main aim of selling state parts of Iceland to reduce the State's risk of such a large part of the financial system, to promote active financial competition, to maximise the recovery of state funds, to promote the diversity, healthy and spread of property, to increase the investment potential of domestic individuals, and to reduce debt and to increase the limits of state funds. That's 30 billion bucks. worth - simple question would I say - taking into account factors other than maximizing recovery? Is that a good thing to do? Is that what we expect to be predictable? Is that what the State said: We are going to reach a scattered possession, but it will cost 30 billion to achieve that goal? No, it never came out. There was no need for logic. The sale that happened the other day arrived, e.g. magazines in the morning newspaper reports that there were three investors who bought there on the Inn list of investors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may be understood, when the sale works so fast, that such a mistake comes up, but is it normal for the members of an inside list to buy for such an invitation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u20	A respectable president. I just have to say, just as it is, it beats me as a bloody dog's fat as it is. A senator comes here to draw it to the point that only those with open eyes sold the bank 30 billion times as cheap as it was really appreciated. It doesn't make any sense. The bank's dignity grows as it is registered. When they are trying to get the bank into a stock exchange, first steps are taken by looking outside a wide group, and we made them compete to participate in the purchases, and so did the public. Compare this with e.g. when owners of Arion sold their banks or when others who have held property on their way into a store, what they have hoped for - take the cold process, for example. So, what if the owners of Cold Processing were just tens of billions of dollars by registering the company in the market? Were they merely giving tens of billions of shares to new stockholders? But tens of billions are what the company has gone up since it was registered. [[The president calls.]] That's so much of a dog's plow that you can't really answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u21	A respectable president. On June 16, 2009, the General concluded that the European Union should start a discussion. The people were not considered. On March 12, 2015, the current minister of foreign affairs announced that the government is happy to cancel the discussion. The people were not considered. In the European Union, there is an enormous interest in the European Union. It is about closer cooperation with countries close to cultural and historical, business agreements with countries outside of Europe that we have no such agreements with today, access to the European financial and currency alliances that can free us from the fluctuated crowns and high growths and increased democratic access to national legislation on consumer protection, environmental protection and human rights in which the European Union is in an effort to shape. Today, war in Europe has clearly shown the importance of keeping close and strong in our relationship with the nations we share with with with with interests and values. Accepting membership is a big decision, but it is also a big decision not to do so. That decision is at home in the hands of the people who have never been considered. Opinions show a tremendous increase in support of continued discussion of the Member States. This trend does not occur exclusively in this country. V.E.G. In that hall last week, the prime minister said that it was a mistake to cancel a requirement for national pay. Most important of all, there was more to the council. V.E.G. Ministers speak of what some nations call democracy. That's why I want to ask the highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party whether his position is that the nation is concerned only with a matter that is already a more important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u22	A respectable president. This is a good core question which appears here in the rest, which I'm going to come in after. But I'm going to say first, "Yes, it's important to discuss the European Union, possible involvement, open, completely off-limited at any time at the council." In fact, our relationship with Europe - we put together a special report on the subject during the last term, during which light was shed on many good benefits of the EEA community, which in no way is flawless. It is not limited to walking in the European Union, it is also associated with major defects. This is where we spoke. A senator said that we would benefit so much from all the laws that came from Brussels. I'm going to say as far as I'm concerned that it's time to have some dignity here at the council and believe that we can be self-sustaining in Iceland without having to copy it from Brussels. We just need to realize that many of the things we have to implement for the EEA deal are things that often have a low level of Icelandic reality to do and take a considerable amount of time in the Senate work. I think we're fully capable of doing all of this together. We can look forward to fine examples from other sources, but we do not have to give up much of our sovereignty by walking in the European Union and relying on the good laws as a whole. A senator has great faith and is often in government officials with just no democratic commission, which he makes a great deal of it. People who receive little support in elections in the Member States come into the European Parliament with no initiative rights. A European Parliamenter has no initiative, he cannot even submit a legal bill. The bill is built at the post office palace in Brussels. It's democracy. A senator likes me so much. I think we have much to learn about the implementation of national crimes. And, yes, I believe that there can be no trouble because I have asked the people a question that is prepared that more of the council is opposed. [[The president calls.]] I don't bid on what the Senate is supposed to say to their colleagues in Brussels when they're about to take over the contract and the senators and the ministers say, "Thank you for the talks. I'm gonna go home and fight the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u23	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that democracy was not best protected by entry into the European Union. We're already making the rules and laws that have to do with the four freedoms, but we have no democratic access to building them laws. This would be different if we had our own elected representatives at the assembly that we had for some reason trusted today to build these important laws for us. There lies our growing democratic attendance into the European Union. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has repeated the French that Iceland is the best city outside the European Union. I'm glad he's open to discuss it better, because the repetition doesn't prove it. I repeat, entering the European Union is a big decision, but it is just as big a decision to reject it. Most serious, though, is not even going to allow the nation to take sides in the matter. In many lands national laws have shown one conclusion and ministers who failed to accept it because they no longer have support in the majority of the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why would he not allow the nation to come to that great decision? What has he to fear?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u24	A respectable president. The big question is, why did the improvement of the EU business put into the back pocket before election? Why wasn't there a way to flaunt the case? If it is so important, why was this case not placed at the top of the policy list? Well, we were choosing. We have done the democracy. We have come to the people. Why didn't the Conspiracy do the same thing? That's the big question. It was the nation's opportunity to express a firm stand. I say the same thing about matters like the Constitution, which the Piratars said was the biggest case in the world, and I was going to make an important point in the development of government. The result? Wasn't there a democratic election? I think we can read it out of the package that the party took from the election. Yes, I believe that we are the best city outside the European Union, not isolated from the European Union, but, rather, in good cooperation with the European Union, and that the European Economic Area ensures our very important interests. It is not without blemish, as I said, yet. But we have the only new proof that we are well - protected outside the European Union. It's the biocopy study that just came out. She'll determine what the standard of living is. And what else is this matter in the end than a standard of living? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u25	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Is there a request for a vote on this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u26	A respectable president. I don't care if it's about a vote or a meeting because it's about to begin. A president has decided to vote the length of meetings. It's out of control here at the Council. It seems that time management is in desperate need of a president. It is out of control for a government government... who is hereby conducting a revised Parliamentary Constitution with new members of Congress... and then the minister comes the next day with something new and unprovoked. It seems that it did not matter if last week's meeting days were increased by one and two more weeks each. V.E.G. Still, the president feels that he needs a longer meeting on a date that had been once intended and accepted by the prime committee as the day of the committee. It was not even supposed to be a meeting day today. It was supposed to be a day of committees. Naturally, at the usual workplace, those who work here have prepared their day to see that today is a day of committees that would have to change to a convocation date, all right, short notice. But I'm calling for a recession at this meeting, sit down with the Iceland government and they're trying to get something out of their job here. This has become completely unacceptable. There's not been a public service here, just like the government's supposed to do. We just need a specific control over the program, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u27	A respectable president. I would like to direct that question to the highest level. The president what it is that calls for today's extended meeting. Now I'm a special amateur for long meetings, even overnight meetings, they can be the greatest fun at all, but they're burned to the point where representatives of the board will not participate. I'm here to predict that there will be little fancy art in the management board when it begins on the day of the Senate today. I think it matters, chief. Mr President, we know what it is that calls for this extended assembly meeting today. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir here assumed that yesterday and today would be the day of committee days and therefore, perhaps many members of the council made arrangements that could be set aside for an appointment after the previous committee meetings had ended. I want to pray to the highest. President to explain to us what's required of us, because if it's primarily a shy use of the government classes in the last few weeks, it's fine that it comes out. I'll leave this question at the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u28	The president is kindly and obliged to answer that the reason the president seeks a longer meeting is that it has been extremely slow to resolve matters through 1st. in the last days and weeks. The president believes that the need for members of the Parliament to express themselves on these issues makes it necessary for them to set aside only the meeting period to meet that demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u29	A respectable president. In light of this, the highest possible response will be made. It's just a pleasure for a president to see the presence of the members of the council on this side. I don't think I've seen many of those faces in the past few weeks, so the demand isn't that much, the highest. President. There is more than half of all voices missing in the council hall here, so it's hardly so horrible that members of the government resistance express themselves, just after the Senate, in the year 1st. which is not such a resource. It would be wish, of course, if it were the highest. The president intends to extend a meeting here, that he might be less impressed. Generals see that this is also their seminar, and it would be nice to hear how they feel about all the political affairs we're supposed to follow up here until the night. The demand is not greater than that, so more than half of the council is missing. That can hardly be considered an occasion for an extended assembly meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u30	A respectable president. The senator's interest is to discuss the cases on the table at the highest level. I'm surprised to have a president. This may explain why the time has not been new since our starting Congress this year. Rather, we have been waiting for days and weeks to come for what the government had said was going to do for the council long ago. It is clear that the government expected that they would be able to present the issues she would like to pass without any discussion at the council. They do not participate in discussions and expect the smaller part of the council to stay late at night to discuss a matter that we have had three or four months before. What was going on in the three to four months? We've been waiting for these things. We are now to be treated for wanting to discuss these matters at the High General Assembly, the democratic realm where we will discuss the laws before and before they are approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u31	A respectable president. Yes, I'm going to say that I'm surprised we're in this position. I would have thought that when the president makes a clear move to ask himself, " What is the state of Congress ahead of me, since we are taking one case after another in? ' ... that he would begin at the right end, pointing out to the council members that this is a matter. But they do not participate in the discussion. It is part of our role as lawgivers to deal with opinions and arguments, not only in committees when the greater portion is suitable, but also here at 1st. That is what the lesser part has been doing, or possession, and conscientiously went through it. I think it's the highest. Well, Mr President is beginning at the wrong end, especially here on this day, where it was originally meant to be a meeting for members of the council, but was changed to a council meeting. To have that meeting longer, it's kind of hard to put it down, so it's hard to put it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u32	A respectable president. It's just that you have to say, as it is, that you feel like there's some kind of play here at the council. It reviews the most important value of this year's National Meeting: honesty. What is a real position during the council? Is it not that the simplest of matters suddenly call for an enormous length of discussion, and now that the President responds to this great demand to discuss matters, people get up and say: "It's impossible, impossible, impossible to give more time to talk. Yes, because the management team is missing the discussion. It's just as strange as when I heard members of the government opposition complain that a minister was not going to bring a case into the council. It's different for me before. When I was in a position of government, I preferred that the government I opposed would just come up with new issues and be changing the law. But now there are other times. The government's situation complains of not receiving a matter that is supported by the greater part and is missing the members of the discussion, but it certainly does not want a longer public speaking period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that it's not really true at the highest level. A president breaks the tradition of not asking for a prolonged meeting time at the beginning of a meeting. There is no doubt about breaking that tradition. It's also true that we who came up here during discussions, 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um., we are in order to make our point before the issue arises. The more important part here decided to have a larger proportion of committees, and as a result, there are fewer opportunities for us who are in a position of government to promote our views. That's why we're talking here in 1st. the way our rights are perfectly. [[The president calls.]] We talk, and often there's no one sitting here listening. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. The president asks that the Ministers who represent the hearings and members of the council who are on the committee to take over, then be present at the council chamber and participate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u34	President thanks a lot. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson's Gíslafsson for training on the tradition of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u35	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance carried himself grudgingly and spoke of the opposition to the government. We are calling for the issues that the government has foretold that it will bring. In fact, the most recent legal update to the government, the second update from December, they're going to cancel 34 cases, which is fine because it is quite obvious that they will not be able to live up to what they were saying at the beginning of the program. But what is there too? There are 31 cases that were due to be in January and February and are not yet there. We're calling out that there's some sort of crazy thing going on, a respectable president, that there's someone watching the events ahead of us, that there's someone with some organization because we can be careful about what I know to do. A financial minister may not be particularly preoccupied with these days, so we need to respect a certain time frame. It's 24 hours in the 24 hours of the day, and there's seven days this week. It's a box we can't circle with. [[The president calls.]] Even the highest. President and Chief. The government has to respect this. We can't control the moon and the sun. [[The president calls.]] We're asking you to have a rule of what you say, even if only if it's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u36	A respectable president. In the light of words, the highest. I'd like to come up here sometime in defense of the 1st. Paint here at the council. I am now a senator for a class with only a regular member of two of the Eight Synod Committees. We would not be able to form that position in six committees of eight to bring up a committee opinion. 1st. we are relatively important in establishing viewpoints, asking the committee to consider certain aspects of matters, and so on. So I want to keep it the way of 1st. if he does not have some formality in order to get matters on the line of the administrations. The fact is, in the light of the highest words. Secretary of finance, that I believe that it would be best for the current government to bring in, as there are most benefits these days, unfortunately. I'll support the good stuff that comes out, but I want us to get close to 1st. with due respect, for for some of us in this room, she is the only event until the members of the committee have convened a committee that is hardly ever willing to make any changes in the views of the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u37	A respectable president. The lack of order on your part does not require an emergency on our part. They set up a program for the council, such as the Supreme Court. The president quoted earlier when the first council was set up to improve. That's important because like a dog, that's what matters. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said that there is a limited time in the Senate work, and of course we want to discuss all the issues that enter the council. Nothing but us, I'm sure. But when it is carried out by an ordinary organization, it is a sign of some sort of mistake. The mistake here is definitely the fact that, first of all, the Constitution by the government itself has not been carried out. She will be evaluated for when the matter should enter the council. The next mistake is the organization, and if it is possible to get them through the council, it is the responsibility of the president. There's a lot of stuff, we know it very well, and then we leave when it comes to nothing at all through the council. We even had the highest. Healthcare Minister for the 1st. the day that drew back a case that was quite critical of, and he gets nothing but compliments for it. But it also shows how important 1st is. often and often. [[The president calls.]] I'm just going to point it out to the President that it's his responsibility to attend to that the council isn't in some mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u38	Of course, the president will have to be careful, and if so, the president will try to respond. There comes a situation in 1st. spend a long time looking for a warrant for a little longer meeting meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u39	A respectable president. I am one of the people who have great respect for the Council, for its function and function, and I feel less sad than when members of Congress or the Supreme Assembly. Ministers themselves participate in speaking down to the Allied Parliament. And what do people do with respect to the council, its role, and its respect when they fail to be able to participate in discussions at the General Assembly? Although we are now with Iceland record for a number of ministers in Iceland's government, that's not enough for us to get ministers here with reasonable attendance at queries. Government officials take virtually no part in discussions about the bills presented by the government itself. What do members of the Sanhedrin fear? I have to say, I feel that the council here on account of the efforts of the greater part is in great and serious trouble and that the government is in its first year of this election period beating an entirely different and terrible beat to its approach to the Council of II. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u40	Mr. President. V.E.G. A financial minister came up here and thought that he had exposed some kind of drama or dishonesty from the lesser part of which we are calling for politics, but it may be reasonable for us not to be calling for it. Of course, the reason is that we knew that this would happen. We knew that it would be this way because it is not the first time that the administrative part draws its feet in putting forth the issues he truly purposes to do because it is supposed to get them through at some point at the end of the assembly. This is not happening for the first time, and it's not acceptable. When I was a single mother, I thought about volunteering for the council, I was told that there was no particular child-friendly place for me. That is correct for us, who are in less part, because it seems that those in the greater part have no obligation to the council other than to attend a meeting. [[The president calls.]] They don't come here for a discussion, and it's okay to leave the smaller parts of this here until after night for their discussion, and they don't even share in their discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about a meeting board or maybe a president's meter. He says that prolonged meetings are needed because cases over the course of 1st have been very slowly resolved. I went through the statistics, a few cases we've been discussing here in the last few days. The electronic bill, it took only four hours for 1st. There, in a case that the government groups acted as though very controversial among them, but perhaps they did not show up in the discussion. The school case, two hours and 16 minutes, is being legalized by a surgeon who has been legally covered for over a year after the health care department is screened and screened. It's now that it comes to the council. Of course we talked about it - but for two hours, President. How much is that? If the President wants us to be that much assembly of opportunities, it's a big financial agency for the government, that we can't talk for two hours about bills in the 1st. we have a slightly different view of what is considered a long discussion and what is considered a natural discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u42	A respectable president. It's weird to come up here and say that the executives haven't been in the discussion since you just can't make it because you don't know when it's on. There are a lot of cases where I thought I'd take part in the discussion, but I just didn't know when the opposition would come to the subject. It's moved by day. I'd also like to point out that some of these matters -- we, for example, are. has been waiting a few days to get into an environment and transport committee to discuss communication, call for references, and take over the discussion in order to make it up to the 2nd issue. If this is a long time for the committee to enter, it will affect the work of the Generals with these cases, when the reviewers can arrive, when we will be able to return the committee and what has come near the end of the council, and when the case is scheduled. So I just don't understand the whole program management board on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u43	A respectable president. I feel as a new senator, the hours of work here at the General Assembly are very special and the disorganization is almost complete. I can take, for example. For example, on December 22rd and December 23 I recommended my membership as part of a budget board between 1: 00 p.m. and 2 p.m. - or was it December 23? There was the President's conference board about 10:00 in the evening, and they said it was just a bad day. Then came another one of the highest. Ministers, saying that these things are a bunch of weak-ass recruits to be complaining about. I wasn't complaining myself. But being doing this in the night is a complete scandal and beneath the dignity of the Generals. Regarding the process, I feel that the bills the government has been putting in simply badly designed and deliberated. This has been shown in 1st. I can take two examples: After 1st, a cab driver's bill was pulled back. It was because of criticism that happened to 1st. It was a bill that was just raw, it was a complete joke. [[The president calls.]] Another bill is about the management of the Land Hospital. The history of the Hospital Management Board is this: 1990 Committee on the topic of government, then a advisory committee, then a professional committee, and now the board is due to return. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's how it works. You can negotiate this time of work, it is very simple to do so. They need to sit down and negotiate the issues that get started here, and that's the government side absolutely ready to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u44	A respectable president. Yes, I'm about to join with the highest. Secretary of finance, saying, "We want a case from this government. That's exactly right, including. Because her priorities are just not okay. It is enough to mention that homes are not mentioned at all or at all as anything this government presents. However, we do our best to correct matters from these things, so that they do so. This is so that we can influence and point to faults that are often quite obvious to government opposition. There's been one minister in the past few weeks who's worked hard to sit here and listen, and he took a lot from it. He said it was full of good indications, and he accepted them. How fine it would be if more ministers set a good example for him and listened to what the government has to say! Then maybe we wouldn't need so many speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u45	A respectable president. I can't put it in words after that. Secretary of finance said here earlier. Why is it now that we sometimes call matters from the government and from the government? It shouldn't be, though, because the politicians in this room are just so that Congress cases don't stand a chance unless they're about something very specific, unless they have nothing to do with the big picture and e.g. The real economic situation. There are now a number of economic and economic issues that result from rising prices and growth. Will members of the board of directors take care of this and make sure that they get a quick start? No, these cases are going to be put to sleep and while we're waiting for something from the board that's not gonna get hurt. Where are counter measures due to rising prices and growth? Nowhere in the Constitution, no matter how much declaration the highest. The minister of culture and commerce has or is at the highest level. Minister of wood, even secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we want at least ... thatthe Constitution is being followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u46	A respectable president. I'm just going to express my amazement at the way people associate and promote their thinking about the democratic process to be carried out here in this house, especially in the highest words. Secretary of finance earlier. Some wonder that when he was in a position of government, he was not calling for some kind of case from the government and so forth. This tells us all about what respect is given for the work being done here, at all levels of the people coming here. It is against me and us in the government's opposition that a case from the government will not come and we'll just discuss the government case. But there's a program, it's called the government case. Of course, we want to talk and call for it, both to reject and after experiences agree with some, but especially to fix problems on many of those coming here, often half-naked and late. The request and we are about to vote for is completely out of the context of the recent council work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u47	Mr. President. Because of the most incredible words. I'll have to get involved in the discussion. I was going to leave it, but it was an amazing entrance. A conversation or a conversation, or what terms we use about this, is absolutely necessary for the lesser part to have an opportunity to discuss the greater portion of their affairs. The talks of the week have not exactly been mixed up by the ministers and the directors. So the majority of them are howling under criticism of their own slackness of presence and construction. This is amazing. This room is more and more surprising to the lips. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But it can be understood, to be reasonable, the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u48	V.E.G. President. It is the president of the council, the whole body of Congress, who will conduct the program at the High General Assembly, and it is the president to make sure that the matter is balanced and that the interests of much more and less are cared for. It's the President's main project, and that's why the job is the highest. The most important thing to do here at this workplace, the most important thing. The calendar is in the hands of a president. The president can say in advance that he is directing the program here, ordering it, evaluates it every day how to operate. This assessment will include a conversation with a representative of the government and, of course, more of the part of how we work together in this room. So there's another debate whether or when we'll change the rules we're working on here in this room. But as long as the rules and laws are like this, the government has very little opportunity to influence the program here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u49	A respectable president. If anyone didn't know, I can inform the Congress that people in many parts of the world are amazed at the work hours in this institution. Although we are at the world's oldest active National Congress, we do not need to observe the rules and traditions originally established. If we had done that, we would not be voting with buttons but with weapons folding. On the other hand, in many parts of the world, there has been a tremendous development of political and political activities in order to make them more efficient and more productive. It is hard to believe that meetings are long. I was here until midnight on Tuesday because in the U.S. Congress, it says that members of Congress have an obligation to attend meetings, each of them. It wasn't a crowded hall, but it's our duty here. I can't say that things are getting too late, they're only discussed until they've been discussed, and then they're being taken over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there may be tremendous improvement on the terms of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u50	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the vote, aren't we? I'm going to say yes and vote for a lengthy conference. I hear there's a lot of fire in people. I myself wasn't working here last week, was with Covid, and was at the Council of the Northern States at the beginning of this week, so I'm excited. Here is a full program of exciting subjects that I am ready to participate in. So I'm saying yes, we have an extended conference. Let's stop whining and get to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u51	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that it is easy to negotiate a work lesson here at the General Assembly, and it is by negotiating with the government opposition on the issues of which will be established at the General Assembly and which cases will not be successful at the General Assembly. That's the way to win this thing. I am not in my heart against all affairs of the government. These theories that the opposition to the government is contrary to every language that comes from the Senate, which is rooted in history and with the former mayor, former president of the Independence Party. This culture means that if you are in a position of government, every issue that comes from the government must be stopped. I've only spoken as a citizen of the country, and I've been following a political debate in Iceland, that this is a totally black spot on a political debate in Iceland. The honour of the Generalis is here. It's very simple to negotiate. I feel that such a proposal to extend the conference period of the Generals should not come to votes until negotiations have been made in progress on the smaller issues of the General Assembly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u52	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here under this team as a relatively new member of the council. There's a lot of things that have surprised a man at the council, and I'm not going to trace it all to you. However, I would like to speak from my breast for this and the discussion that has been discussed here about the fact that it was called after the presence of a member of the board in the last days. I can say for my part that I think I've been here almost every day until the end of the program, until a meeting is ended here in this house, and there's not been any overcrowded class at the council Hall or here at the same time as I'm here in this house. However, it is of utmost importance for me and for us, knowing that we are here and listen to the discussion presented here, and then taking it into committees. [[The president calls.]] I am the head of a professional committee, and it is just important to listen, as it were, to participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] Active listening is an enormously important weapon, and we should make no less use of it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u53	A respectable president. We talk about Generalis'respect, and we talk about his being involved in discussions. Except for two ministers of 12 they can't be seen here unless there are votes or unprepared queries. That's what's at the top. Secretary of finance decides to call the play and the highest. The Ministers laugh that it is precisely not what these two ministers have been doing, i.e. to listen and participate. That's what we want to see here. I also agree entirely with what. A senator who spoke of the need to negotiate. This is where we have to negotiate and talk more about how we're going to work together here at the General Assembly because this shit that's taking place now is not the respect of the General Assembly. And where it's the highest. The president encourages me to give him good advice, so I would like to give the advice to take a break before making a vote and making a deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u54	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister noted earlier that when he was in a position of government in his day, he had not been calling for matters from the administrative point, but it should not be that nothing had to do with them. At that time, a government who went to great lengths, responded to challenges, and dared to make decisions, was not always in some popular media contest without following their declarations here at the Assembly Hall and by Congress. But is that not why it did not always have to be called for? What are we calling out for now? We call them even. by the fact that promises made by the government to write life agreements are fulfilled. It's just that way. This needs to be done in the interest of social stability in this country. Next bargains soon. Then the government still has its pants down from the start of the lifetime contract, that there have not yet been legalized for tenants, that action against pay thefts has not yet been legalized, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is what we call to. There may be other issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u55	President. We're paying a vote on the length of a council meeting. Let's take a break. In all likelihood, the administrative body votes with this, and then no longer participates in the discussion at a meeting asked for in length by this same body of Parliaments. If we talk only about honesty, you see, it works that more of the members of Congress take part of the program here at the council and treat it in a way that he simply pumps matters into the council program and then just does what happens. It's the decision, especially the president, to make things that way. You can choose to do things differently, as it were. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur of Ármannsson spoke of earlier, talking to the members of the council, that this might happen. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said that people know when things are going on. It's not even tried. That's what we're making comments about. [[The president calls.]] At this point, a meeting meeting is being extended until midnight, and this is likely to mean that there are a few additional issues that people need to prepare for now because there was nothing to expect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u56	The president has noted that the points on the program have been on the schedule throughout the week and that the good part of the past week has already been so that they could be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u57	A respectable president. Let's stop whining and go to work, the senator said. That's when you know that the comments of a government stand up for work are called tabloid. I am now like many new people here, learning how to work in this kind of work here. It wasn't unusual for me right after the New Year's Eve that we were taking a case on the program without notice because there were issues that had to be done just for the sake of the nation, but that they were being pushed in on a case that was supposed to be on much more notice, as we were doing right after the years, I don't understand. [[The president calls.]] I think we must have the right to make comments when things are being pushed down our throats and we shouldn't have any opinions about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u58	The president would like to state that he has no intention of restricting the discussion of members of Congress. He is only suggesting that there be an extended meeting meeting so that there is more room for it to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u59	Mr. President. Let's stop whining and get to work, said why. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir here. I would like to answer that on a similar plan: Mirror. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's been over two weeks since the senator of the advance or the senator of the left-green power in a peninsula to express his opinion in a political language. Come and work, my fellow directors. What does a management team think, e.g. for health care policies with the elderly until 2030, a big deal we talked about for almost five hours? Not one member of the board was able to express his opinion on this matter. This was the discussion to do so, the first debate of the council resolution. They gave up the wealth, all 30 and what they are. And then we were encouraged here last week to see how the people are doing. Let's just think about it, Mr. President. Here Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, a health minister, spoke for one case after another, and he was on his own in the field. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Notice that. Notice this shocking lack of support and support within the governments. [[The president calls.]] The day after day, that a minister stands alone in the hall, there is not much to hear, and there is not something to show a whole team within the board of directors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u60	The speech time in the talks about votes is 1 minute, not 1 minute, 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u61	A respectable president. This has been an informative debate over the length of a council meeting. From it, it seems to me that if something looks like a filament, and sounds like a filancy and actually smells like propancy, then it's almost definitely just a perfunctory debate of government opposition, where they come after each other to reason on government issues. They need time for it, and if something is, the discussion would have to be longer, because I've heard it here that more speakers are missing during the discussion. Therefore, all of us must support the President's proposal to extend the meeting and take up these big national contracts that are discussed on the program and discuss them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u62	A respectable president. It's a smell of precocious pride. I just wanted to keep it up. Let's stop whining and go to work with President's permission, that's all. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said here earlier. It would be interesting to see the management work. It would be interesting to know why a member of the board, listed below, is eager to get into a speech about government, but he just didn't know when, only in one speech, has there been a talk in one speech of the remaining winter. paritaprevir Will Árnason. He's waiting here to get ahold of the discussion, but we won't let him in. After this background, there is any hope that he will be involved in some conversation rather than in others. Councilmen here? Of course, we're just calling for a democratic discussion, a respectable president, but not for people sitting here like a bunch of mutes to disappear in between and accuse us, who are here in a democratic discussion, being lazy and losers who are not prepared to work. It's amazing. It's amazing. People should ask themselves, " Who are the lazy ones and the losers in this room? ' [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u63	President. What I find amazing about all of this is that we receive an e - mail from a president this morning, in which the government declares that we are not approved for having a further conference meeting because we do not see the evidence or that there is a reason for it. Why is it that rather than calling members of Congress to a meeting, the president does not simply call a meeting of members of the council instead of resorting to some of these devices, calling for a vote on a longer council meeting, and forcing a longer conference into the state of government with the majority authority? It's this violent rhythm that's always used here when the more part doesn't get its way. V.E.G. The minister of finance speaks of the opposition as a matter of speech. I'm just saying, you haven't seen anything yet. [[Up front.]] But it's not a filibuster. It's a busy discussion we have here. [[The president calls.]] If the management officers try to control their own planning and bring up everything, all too late here, I suggest that the management officers call the opposition to us, make us talk to us, tell us how we can work better together, instead of always using the majority of violence here to get things through. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Just talk to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u64	In celebration of the speech of the roost. A senator wants to know that for a few years he has sought to see if an agreement could be made that would last longer, and it has never been approved by some representatives of the government opposition. It makes it possible for the president to wonder what other treatments of Congress are at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u65	Mr. President. I'm not new to the council, and I've seen this happen before. When government practices are so bad that a few weeks before the council is to be completed, this will happen. They wish for a longer meeting period to try to get their affairs through. This is bad work. These devices smell like they're doing them. These devices smell bad, and they're obviously bad. But what do they give us in our position of government? They give us a better position to get our way and get our emphasis on the matters that go through, and so let us, at the position of the government, make good use of ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u66	A respectable president. It's finally going to be fun at the Council. This is a conversation that I have felt was lacking in the past few weeks. I think it's somehow about the work and the work done. A long time ago, a case was promised and may not have arrived. Others are coming, and they are expected to be taken care of by some method. Is it really so that our work needs to be that way? Is it not, then, an assignment for the president to review these procedures and set aside time for every case set before the council, and if there is no time for it within the framework that has been planned for it at the council, then the case will not be scheduled? I think there's a way to change these tactics, and we're all supposed to do it. [[The president calls.]] Yes, the minister said, "If it looks like a filibuster, it's a filibuster. " But it's gonna be a saying while the work is like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u67	A respectable president. I say, "Yes, we have extended conferences. " Like what? paritaprevir How important it is to listen to the discussion presented hereStefánsson Vagn, but it's just as important to have the opportunity to listen to a client on the committee after 1st. So a case has to come to a committee, so we have to make it through 2. you can have a conversation about which topics are relevant here for the complete payment and who may need additional work to do before returning them to the council later. This is what I emphasize here; that the committees have the opportunity to work with the case. There is, of course, reason to correct certain misinformation here. In the past week, members of the board have repeatedly voiced opinions or viewpoints. Remember, too, that the Assembly Hall penetrates the side hall, where members of the Assembly have often been present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u68	A respectable president. This may not be a strange situation for the council. She's been here before, and she's been called the correct name of a member of the anti-continent who came up here and said that if it was a filibuster, it would be a filibuster. It is said of tradition and that it is not the custom to ask for a length of meetings at the beginning of a meeting. I'm not familiar with that tradition. I've been here since 2007, and I've got a lot of action open when it comes to these things. It is also said that it is beneath Generalis's dignity to speak until the night. I think there's a reason for the government to figure it out and get it sorted out how long it's been in the last few weeks and even months in the President's conference board. How long have we spent here today? [[Up front.]] It is a very long time where the president, as we have seen, is regularly meeting with members of the council where people can promote their views and views. Of course, this play started does not result in adding the esteem of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly what the government's work is doing, reducing the respect of the General Assembly by means of this procedure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u69	President. It's all been said in my opinion that matters in this matter and the viewpoints are expressed by both parts, parts smaller and more. [[Call interference.]] - There's a weird situation here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I mean, we're supposed to put this discussion down and do what's been recommended here many times. Of course, it's about getting the beat together. A word that describes us all too well is a lack of strength. If it were a band that offered four times a beat on one side of the country, the three changes on the other side would all turn down, whether on radio or on television. Avoid that beatlessness here. Let's find out about the arrangement, find out what we're going to get along until the end of this council, build friendships, destroy hostility, and become a model for other institutions in the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u70	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal. I'd also like to point out to the council that I've been praying for a week to be because I have to measure for a bill about a change in artistic law. This is a temporary increase in the number of jobs they earn for local artists and musicians who have had to endure an 87% blow in the crowning season. 87% payoff. Here, too, we are meeting our young artists, and I pray that they give me an order for this matter. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir My Jakob Magnússon... that we need to get to the beat. This is important, our artists are waiting, and they deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u71	A respectable president. Because the conversation is developing in the direction of whether people are in a mood until midnight tonight, I'm going to inform them that the television program is so tonight that I don't complain about being here and will take part in all the discussion. However, because respect is being discussed at the council, it is now the focus of the Lawgiver's work. It's the conversation, that's argument, that's the job of the management team to show support, to be active in their surveillance, to ask questions. It does not necessarily shorten the conversation that the chair members do not participate in this conversation. You see, it doesn't. I'd like to beg the council members to be here with us in the state of government tonight and to be in the Senate. It's the council rhythm.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u72	President. I agree with what. A senator about how the management should participate in the discussion, and I call it also. Then I call for the President of the Parliament, if there is a real desire to have a conversation with members of the council, to do so by e - mail, because it cannot be called a consultation or a conversation. Some independents come up here and they talk about some rhythms and acting the government side, and I just want to say, "Many people think I'm okay. Perhaps it is a rhythm that the Independence Party uses but does not need to dominate or mirror us at our position of government now. I think it's a real will to have a good, meaningful conversation about a matter in the district of 1st. This too is vital because we see that two ministers have taken a case back after 1st. And figure out how bad they are. Then you will ask yourself: " If government officials were more interested in having democratic conversations and consultations with government opposition, would they have appeared in advance? [[The president calls.]] We could have saved the duration of the council to discuss that matter because they had only been taken back, and we would not have had to take them to 1. [[The president calls.]] But it's not a will for this discussion, this democratic conversation with the government opposition, and that's why we're in this position right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u73	A respectable president. The Presidency Committee accepts a work programme and also agrees with its meetings to compromise the existing programme. It was adopted on the Presidency Committee to cancel committee meetings last week and make that day a meeting day so that all committees had to step aside for their work. Then the prime committee decided that the president's recommendations would be made to eliminate two days of committee committees this week and that they would make those days of meeting days, two whole days, long days, and it was accepted. Congress leaders did not comment on this. This was the conversation that took place between the classes and the presidents and then the prime committee agreed on this. This is a conversation that took place. In e-mail, the president proposes that there will be a sudden change in the day, a temporary change, of surprises. It's the kind of work I'd like to object to because they don't put a lot of pressure on the council here during the first year of this election, long before the end of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I won't vote with this. I'm not afraid to work here like a whale. þm. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was exaggerating. [[The president calls.]] I've been here all night and I've been watching.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u74	The president still reminds us that when the senators report their vote, they have one minute to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u75	A respectable president. I vote against this act of authority by a respectable president who does not agree or want to negotiate. I insist that all those who say yes to an extended meeting sit here for the final meeting and participate in the meeting, not in a cafeteria eating, but sitting in here, listening and participating, and that includes the highest level. Minister, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u76	Mr. President. It is falsely claimed that it takes a long assembly meeting to address some huge discussion in the district of 1st. Pain in these last days. We're talking one or two or three hours in each case. It's not much. This is the democratic way, discussing things here in this room - except those in the management school, not sharing in the democratic conversation, and that's bad. That sludge is very bad. I still can't figure it out, Mr. President, but why are you guys at the Board of Directors working so early? We haven't even reached the Senate deadline. Why do you have to drive the program into the house tonight to sweep up the lawsuits? What mess is going through the government into this room that needs to be cleared for? What's this for, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u77	A respectable president. I vote against this proposal. It is not the hours of work that matter. Working around the clock giving talks at one, two o'clock in the night is not what counts, but the quality of the cases that are handled by the High General Assembly. Quality and multitudes, that's what counts. To achieve that goal, we need to look at specific matters in a critical way and decide which subjects will be successful. Then the best thing to do is to do it as soon as possible, not at the end of the assembly. It is the best thing to negotiate as soon as possible any of the cases of government that are likely to succeed, at least according to a new Constitution, and what cases of government opposition are being carried out. That's how this works. It always goes badly when it comes to ignoring the smaller parts completely, running over them in the power of the Senate. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're in the position we're in, so we're in this mess we've been talking about here today, and that's why it's a vote. [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u78	Mr. President. I vote against this proposal. I don't think it's necessary. I believe that we are being punished in the memory of the share of catharsis by presenting the issues that they want to stress on this council. I don't think it's time. I don't think it's fair and without any reason. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u79	A respectable president. I vote against this proposal because it would never have to come to her if procedures were normal here at the General. V.E.G. The president spoke of sending e - mails to the council groups and viewed them as consultations and of trying to negotiate with the council members. When they weren't available to extend a council meeting, there were attempts to make a deal just somehow wrong. Of course, this is not a conversation. This is not an attempt to make a deal. This is not trying to meet the government in any way. This is not asking the government if there is anything you can do to help at first. the burden of a matter is so great in the matter of Congress, although I do not agree with it. There's no need to extend a council meeting here, but it would be wish to see them. The members of the major section, who are going to vote with an extended meeting, at least Sit here in the hall and participate in the discussion. As a senator, it is not enough to listen only with active listening, as we have heard here. Our purpose is to participate in discussions. [[The president calls.]] I would like to know why these cases are presented by the Generals. We just don't get anything from them. Seriously. It's very strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u80	A respectable president. It's quite a fact that things that come in here are pretty badly done, many of them. This has been evident in the very issues that have been called back. Discussing that matter is normal in these circumstances. There's nothing unnatural about that. So what we see here is the highest. The president sent e-mail: Couldn't there be an agreement to extend a meeting? - What for? To discuss other issues? What does that mean in the big context? In order for Congress to function normally in the matter of government opposition, e.g., to be held hostage back and forth? That's a lot of things that always take the whole program. It is the majority of the part that tries to control the agenda so that only the issues of the greater part will come into play. That's how it works. What, then, does it mean when we are being included in a longer meeting with a vote for the greater part of the council? Is it not reasonable to react unkindly? I would think so. Why should I listen to such negotiations, really? [[The president calls.]] It is not even an attempt to ask: Can we resolve these issues together and bring them into the committee? [[The president calls.]] And that means that perhaps some cases from the government opposition will be taken on a committee such as the normal process, as has been described for a long time: There is now a need to work things out on a committee, there are going to be reviews and so on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And there's nothing to do about it. [[The president calls.]] That's the essence of the problem here. We live under the violence of the greater part - and I don't care about this bell - it's absolutely unnecessary to do this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, of course, I resent the longer meeting with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u81	President of the Council...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u82	I don't care.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u83	[[The president appeals to members of Congress (Precise Up Into the World).) showing proper respect for the president in the public talk chair and when they get out of the platform.]] showing proper respect for the president in the public talk chair and when they get out of the platform.)
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u84	President. It may be understandable that people were in heat, since there were no cases of government here for weeks. There has been plenty of time for politics to be established, and nothing has come to pass. Then come the politics, just everything, all too late, as always. Perhaps it is part of our reaction to this willingness to do so, for this is a form of willing and incompetent work, and that is what stings. The council's period is wasted in 1st. for cases of mismanagement and withdrawal. There is no consultation, and there is no one willing to have a conversation or consultation with the government. There has been no unusual debate over any issues on the side of the government so far, no one. If the president stood with the council and carefully used tactics, he would be using the whip - for yes, the length of a assembly meeting is similar, and it is designed to tire out senators. It's just that way. If the President stood with the council, he would be using the whip toward the greater part, which is just not going to work out, not bringing things in early enough for the council coverage. [[The president calls.]] So, of course, people have come to heat. [[The president calls.]] I say no to a longer conference meeting, and I'm very sorry that the president didn't think to have any real words and conversations with members of the council before he made that decision. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u85	President. I learned earlier today that the president of the matter would be worse to receive some history lesson or instruction about tradition here in the hall, but I just want to review with a president who has sat here a little longer than I am, that when they ask for a repetition of a vote, Presidents will simply be there, unless the president would hide the fact that the government would spring here from their seats as soon as they could to not look at the people whom they are going to have one of these democratic discussions. The executives who tell us to stop whining and coming to work but who are all gone for food or out to town or anywhere. Here's an empty Ministerial class, except for environmental, energy and resource -- no, what's his name. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u86	Which is nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u87	And the President is on it. The President of the entire Generals is expected to stand by the Generals, not by the board, who can't even sit on his ass through one vote. There was nothing more we were asking for, that they would sit here in their seats and vote for the extended assembly meeting which is not needed except for the disorganization of the president and the government. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u88	A respectable president. The president asked for the reason to repeat the vote. So it was that before a respectable president was about to report the results of the vote, the entire screen became empty of votes, nothing was seen on it. In other words, it wasn't before a vote came to an end. It was possible to see how others were voting. No doubt this can be seen on recordings in the hall. That's why, Mr. Honorable President, that's why we're asking for it. We hope that a dignified president will show the fine spirit of following a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u89	The President follows the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u90	A respectable president. 5 mg. 80. g. A law on the General Assembly says, by permission of the President: A U.S. Marshal's Office 2 mg. Its results may be repeated, although they may be described if the president considers it a reason or wishes to do so from a senator. The law does not require logic. On the other hand, I'd like to point out that once we got our votes, they'd pop out of the seat of the dog. paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, sitting next to me right here in the hall, says to me, "Don't change. At the end of the vote, he's out of the Senate Hall. There is reason for people to remain in their seats until a vote is complete. I just want to point this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u91	A respectable president. Of course, it's good and blessed that there has been some logical support here, but now I've been here for a few years, and I've never experienced a president calling for support to why it should be repeated. Never. I'd have kept and I've always experienced the highest. A president who prefers to be a conservative member of the council tradition so completely oversees it. [[No, come on.]] - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. A minister disagrees with me. Now I don't know exactly, because I have at least a Working with him for a few years as head of Congress, and we didn't always agree on what progress it would be best to take here at the council, etc. and the importance of tradition and customs here at the council and there. So this surprises me, and I'd like to ask for a little support from the President for why he requires logical support for this one time. That one time. That logic would certainly be interesting reasoning support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u92	A respectable president. Now I think it would be a National Council to the highest degree. The president of the Generals used the method to try to negotiate here something about the continuation of the Senate work rather than doing it in this way. The reason for this is because it seems like the atmosphere in this room is calling for it a little bit. There has been no lack of the desire of the government to discuss the progress of Congress here. But what I wanted to do is that when we were discussing the vote, I wanted to make an account of my vote, but the president left that team without letting me in. I'm not going to make it up to him that he did it on purpose, but at least I didn't get to do what was right, so in the context of whether to repeat the vote or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u93	A respectable president. According to the General Assembly Act, the President does not really decide whether to repeat his vote. It does not say in the General Assembly that if there has been a request from a senator that the vote will be repeated, it should be performed if the president considers it so. It doesn't stand in the Senate. I repeat, please don't. It simply states that a vote should be repeated if an appeal is made by a senator. That's uncool. I don't get tired of trialing here at the Senate Hall the importance of the law of the Allied Congress of Iceland. That is also true of the highest. The President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u94	A respectable president. I repeat, premeditated in 5 mg. 80. g. According to Congress, a vote may be repeated, although it has been described if a president thinks it is a reason or wish to do so from a senator. Now, a respectable president has refused to grant the request presented here. Then I wonder, a respectable president: If the President can accept Congress laws and interpret them just in his own way, what other things can we stop following in the Senate? We need, for example, Following the rules of speaking class? We need, for example, stop calling forward? I'm just asking. If the highest. A president can take over the task of breaking a council, too, does that apply to other members of Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u95	President. I've just never known that it's impossible to call back a vote. I've never heard a president say there's a reason we're asking for it. There are some mistakes here in the hall when we're voting. It may also be taken into account that after he heard--well, I had the last talk here on a vote, maybe someone changed his mind after hearing me speak here in a pontu and arguing my vote. I agree with the request that the president support this decision because it seems to me, and others in this room, be in violation of Congress. What do members of Congress do when the president violates Congress? What, then, can we do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u96	Come on, pick up a new one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u97	What happens then? What are the consequences? I demand that there be some sort of logical support or a note with some legal basis for the vote not to be repeated when a senator asks for it and really asks for it. It just seems like a cow to me. I also want to know what to do in such a situation where the President decides to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to remind you that when there were some changes in ethic law in 2007, special regulations were set in order to intervening this Court of Parliaments to request that a vote be repeated. I'd like to read up here a little bit from the legal papers, from the report: Since its results have been described, it is important to consider the exact date of the return. Experience shows that there may often be a need to repeat a vote, but it is important to have such clear instructions, especially the limitations involved. I'd like to ask for it at the highest. Mr. President, I would like to know if he knows any examples of the response of the U.S. President to request a repetitive vote in this way, asking for support, and then denying that request. Man of the highest. A president who may be among the senators here in the hall who have the greatest political experience, after such an incident has occurred in the past since its firmness, this right of members of Congress to call upon the order of repetition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u99	Now, the president intends to interrupt this meeting for ten minutes and request an opportunity to meet with members of the council in the President's conference room and assume that a meeting will be held here at ten minutes over one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u100	A respectable president. I'm happy about this, too, and I'm glad that the president went to the top search. Economic and financial secretary reporting on Iceland Bank sales next week. As we know, an offer was made to make professional investors at the table. We still have very limited information about who bought it. There are, however, three insides connected with the government and the head of the Iceland Bank. One of them, a middle manager at the bank, buys a share through a holding society that has negative personal funds of 135 million. K. Of these, 120 million are in debt to each other. This is something that raises questions about how professional investors were chosen. There's something else we need to talk about here in this council hall. Therefore, I am very happy that the president went to work very closely after the discussion here yesterday and responded to the request that all of this be discussed here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-24-56.u101	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of communication that has been proposed during the last two meetings, but it has not been achieved. The bill is presented here in a slightly modified picture. If there is a need for a reexamination of communication laws, progress in communication and communication services have been great. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the best possible available, reliable, and secure communications in this country. In addition, increasing consumer protection and options and promoting active competition, economic investments, and innovation in the area of communication. The rational structure of telecommunications timber, especially with the urban fiber - opticisation of the region and the predictable 5G structure, is of interest to Iceland. The bill suggests that this land will be introduced by the Council of Europe's recent directive and the Council of 2018/1972 on the rules of European telecommunications that are often referred to in the daily terms of the Communion. This is a new framework that replaces four older European directives based mainly on national communal legislation and adopted in the EEA Convention in the fall of 2021. To some extent, the directive's requirement allows room for implementation, but it is very limited. It should be noted that some of the requirements of current communication laws and bill are rooted in a number of other EU types of communication that will apply together with the Communicator. Although considerable change in land rights will be predictable, this bill will be a law, it is clear that there will be no denatural change. Among the newcomers and the main changes expected by the bill from current communication laws are: Communicators on the pressures of communications companies are larger than in existing communication laws; however, the number of pressures and entanglement should be reduced in the event. The methodology of marketing analysis is basically unchanged, but it is new to recommend a period of time to complete it. The work of market partners and joint investments in building infrastructure is encouraged. The more efficient construction of the 5G systems is being developed, ensuring access to the 5G netting site and delivery facilities, while the bill assumes that there is a critical period of 15 to 2020 years in terms of the time of the frequency rights. It is suggested that expeditors and rent licenses be opened between markets. Simple management is equipped with a uniform pooled sales price for phone and texting in the EEA area. Increased emphasis is also on consumer access to information and comparison of the price and quality of communications services as well as the control of business conditions. It is suggested that the maximum binding time of agreements for communications services with consumers be extended from 6 to 12 months, and the criminal protection of consumers will be increased by the regulations on package oers. In an international service, consumers should be able to provide access to a suitable network service and telephone service with the given quality. The security of telecommunication networks is reinforced by its demand for communications services and telecommunications agencies based on high-risk approach, with particular attention to the public interest and national security with reference to recent changes in the law of communication and telecommunications. In turn, a remote agency is authorized to lay down administrative guiltys due to violations of communications law, but under the current law the Agency can only commit day-to-day crimes. As a result, information has been updated in a revised bill consistent with the wording of evolution since the last council, the fall of 2020. (b) What will be considered in the next article? No. 75/2021, formerly Post and Communication, the publication of the Companies in the EEA Convention, which occurred between the fact that the bill was submitted here, and the law No. 17/2022, for the change in communications laws, telecommunications laws, and for the financial investment of foreign parties, the trauma of communications services and communications networks approved at the General Assembly of February 10 of the past. A respectable president. Then I plan to review key changes in the subject content of the bill from my previous donation so that it is even clearer. Changes are submitted to Article 34. for access to land and manpower that contributes to the rapid resolution of a conflict of communication. 54th. will be expected to consider business agreements with Member States outside the European Economic Areas as well as for maximum prices for telephone calls in the national and international trades if appropriate, such as Britain. At 62rd. it is expected that the right to an all-time service will also include microministers in the sense of annual accounts in areas where they have a full wound function. The 78th requirement. The bill, on network and information security, and on the setting of risk management, changes take place according to the conditions of the above changes No. 17/2022. It's suggested that we get legalized at 86. gr. Permissions for Ministers to issue a ban on telecommunications cables. Substantial changes are then proposed to the 87th grit. and the 2nd matter will be added to 3 mg. this article. Then a change to 92th is proposed. for the shape of data required to deliver to the police. It is suggested that there will be a new location on the reliability of emergency and security exchange in the new 95th gr. The bill. The wording and the use of the wording have been cut to some degree and the wording of Article 5. Revised. It is suggested that the implementation of new laws be performed in the mid - 2022 or the second July 1st. Preparatory work for reassessment of current regulations and communications regulations and new formats is initiated, including By the Annexes and the Substitution of the Empress. If the bill is legalized, it is estimated that the government's cost can increase by up to 185 billion. K. This year, and in all respects, the cost of telecommunications operations is increased. An increase in income may be expected due to an assigned rate of 20 million dollars. K. In a year, like the 22nd grade. Act of a telecommunications agency. In a sense, the total increase in the state's budget will be about 165 million. K. every year. This need may be reduced since the late part of the decade when it comes to 5G's high distribution, whereas new projects related to the use of 5G may be added. It is assumed that payoffs according to preliminary regulations can possibly achieve 750 million. K. in a state monotonous if all frequencies are reassigned at the end of their time. The estimated cost increase is based on the analysis of the Remote Relations Office and the improved work given by the Agency according to the criteria of the bill and on how their implementation would be performed. The terms of the bill, particularly affecting the Agency's costs for the increased demand for the security of communications, increasing communication levels for 5G building, and then rapid technological changes with regard to changes in the balance and composition of communications networks as well as changes in the availability of communication services can have a significant impact on the costs of monitoring and administration. A respectable president. Then I would like to mention the basic tasks of a remote agency that can result from this bill and include new expenses or the higher costs previously detected. They provide additional monitoring for the safety of communications networks and communications services set up in the bill as well as the development of monitoring and other topics related to the entire 5G structure. There is increased emphasis in the bill on market analysis that can lead to changes in infrastructure, and this is the participation of a remote network at the centre of a European Communications Observation Group. Further emphasis is also being made on the global network databases and on buying and implementing new equipment, the necessary re-education of staff, and the translation of international standards and standards. If the bill is legal, it will affect the activity of communications companies, especially those who run telecommunications networks, and the cost may be expected to be increased by some of them because of a richer report related to the security of telecommunications. The bill includes an increased demand for information, but the cost of communication companies is likely to be limited. In turn, it can be assumed that the increased emphasis on the cohesive use of communicators, i.e. Communicators and individual networks, lead to a much lower cost for communications companies than would have been possible. With the modernization of the principle of the bill, telecommunications companies are expected to create opportunities for further revenues and economy. In that case, the Code and the bill on the European emergency number and the official warning systems have touched the work of the 911, 112. The bill is urgent, especially as a result of the proposed high rates distribution, but the time for a number of frequencies will run out in this year and the next. Therefore, the demand will be among the market and will be agreed on to contribute to greater competitiveness in Iceland, increased consumer protection, the need for continuing development and development in the Icelandic telecommunications market. The agreed bill is also important in fulfillment of the national commitments of the Icelandic state, while the decision for the recording of the Companion at the EEA Convention was made governmently in advance of September 24, last year, to be valid when Iceland has lifted it. A respectable president. I've been explaining the subject of the bill in general and suggesting that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
