ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u1	A respectable president. Before the pandemic, we knew many of the benefits of distant work, but few had tried it full - time. But now both individuals, companies, and organizations are more experienced and know the positive effects of distant work can have on job satisfaction, production, and flexibility. A steady workplace is not the only way, and it is possible for many people, especially family members, to be able to work at home or to work in a mixed job in an office. Thus, the experience and knowledge we gained in Covid must not flow into the sand. Remote work can also have a positive effect on transport and traffic weights and thus support the climate goals. A remote policy involves an opportunity for the country's settlement to be employed regardless of its population. Finland has been responsible for a long-term workforce when possible and a flexible work period has been legalized in that country, beginning in 1996 and in 2020, laws in a country where full-time workers have the right to organise about half of their working time, i.e. where and when the job is done. At present, there is one department of 12 with a progressive policy on these topics. But I wondered, " Why doesn't the Board of Directors work for a long time? ' Thus, workers could be drawn, could be saved in office management and travel costs, increased flexibility in staff, and set goals in climate support. Residents in the country could compete for the work of public institutions by working on telecommunications. I have proposed a synonym that the evaluation of opportunities involved in telecommunications and a targeted telecommunications policy for the Icelandic labour market should be made, and it is especially a public view where telecommunication can be the case. By doing this, the Icelandic government may lead to a long - distance work policy and the Finnish way of doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u2	A respectable president. Yesterday, a health minister's response to my inquiry about the lack of doctors and other health professionals in the country was received. There are many fine points, but there is also a lack of ability to deal with the situation right away. It must be added to the basic services, the human standards of doctors and other professions, and it will ensure the inhabitants of the country's infrastructure and security that the State will provide by law. The problem is complex. One is the chicken - stick system where managers and commanders in the Land Hospital are at the top while workers in scattered areas are at the bottom, and conditions may not be the best choice for young doctors, nurses, and their families. In this system, it is more difficult to employ and maintain staff. One of the things to be done is to create further opportunities, the medical and nursing staff of the country, and not only at the largest positions, to develop and participate in professional activities on national and international levels. Thus, jobs in such places will be even more desirable. In addition, in the power of public interest and regional equality, it is necessary to use the available will to balance national status as a good choice for people who are starting a career in their fields. Well funded measures in this category should be one of the cornerstones of a policy-making strategy, but are not. That's what needs to be changed. It is important to note that some countries, such as Australia and Canada, have gone into building rural doctors as a special profession and even a special institution in that area. It may be a more efficient way to open the way for Icelandic students to study there, rather than to rely on HI and Lands Hospital to do better or at the same time. Under the present circumstances and conditions, there will be no pleasure. We need immediate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u3	A respectable president. According to some information, Iceland's Secret Bank invaded the currency market last Friday and bought over 800 million currency. K. to prevent the crown from being strengthened. There is a possibility that the crown's strength would result in a reduction in the price of imported goods and should therefore reduce inflation. Instead of allowing the crown to be made firm for the common people, the Councilman chooses to keep the crown weaker and to increase interest instead of trying to reduce the pressure of inflation. One must ask, " Is it going the right way to work for stability that is both important and desirable for the public? ' A stragility such as this should make it easier to reach its targets by 2.5% of inflation. The route in which the Navy bank is going, i.e. by promoting interest increases instead of allowing the crown to grow, as well as increasing growth gaps in abroad are increasing, and this will ultimately increase the influx of funds that should again be made to make the dollar continue to grow. For some reason, you find it difficult to understand why this way is chosen, to grow in direction, and to keep the value of the value of a dollar. Allowing the crown to grow stronger should make it easier for the Secret Bank to fulfill its role and duty to keep the inflation under control and make life easier for the common people. The late bank, on the other hand, does pick other routes, and you must ask, "Is the curse a team with the Icelandic public? "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u4	A respectable president. Last week, in the evening news, there was a record number of reports from Grimney. Not a record confirmed, but my feeling still. The first report, about the ferry Seariders, described the Thai situation in transport in the country rather than the second, of the construction of the New Church in Grimney, well described the spirit and the fighting spirit of the people. The situation on the ferry Seariders is below all the caves. In the story, passengers were seen rolling around, not laughing, either green or white in front of them, throwing up in a paper bag. The water didn't even hurt. Bioavailability issues are fine. Granted, people get into the ferry in a wheelchair, but on a three - hour cruise they can't get into a toilet all on the lower deck. At the beginning of March, I asked for a petition here at a council on the Giorese Circle. By the end of March, I finally received the answers from a minister of wood, all clear, that there was a need to set priorities and that this was the role of the council, as if he had no access to the matter as a minister of transportation. But I told them, and now I'll do it again, that good transportation is a prerequisite for all the land. Now it is urgent to develop a transport policy. The priority order is not available. We must ensure safe transport as well as a sense of security for the inhabitants of the homes of the population of those who rely on squares in order to approach other urban areas and the necessary services. Finally, I'd like to thank you for the challenge by Gylfason, a sailor's son, to sail with Nautilus, but I will most likely not meet it when the high floor is one of Iceland's richest travelers. However, I will surely accept the challenge to continue fighting for you, with you and for the beautiful island.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u5	A respectable president. Much social change does not take place unless politicians have the courage to take the lead in such matters and changes. It takes courage not only to talk about things that affect people in their daily lives as engineering solutions. What kind of community we want to live in is a high political matter. No matter what government officials say about the standard of living in the country, a greater proportion of the population know that housing is a serious situation. The Housing market is not meant to be an investment market. It is one thing to invest in one's own home to have a home and a house of security, another when shopping has become an investment option for growth. A lack of supply is said to be the reason why people are stuck in a rented market, too little was built, and thus to be raised. But let's have one thing in mind, a respectable president. Since 2005, 35,000 new apartments have been built. At the same time, the number of apartments owned by individuals with two or more apartments and with businesses has increased by 23,000. 67% of the additional supply at the housing market has been used by individuals who are not going to live in the apartment as well as to companies. These apartments were to be home to people. Granted, people live in a public rented market today, but with limited protection make it difficult for them to call it a secure home. In many parts of Europe, there is a tenet that takes into account a national view that housing should be, not the source of growth, but the home of people. This is where we need a national agreement. It takes real changes to trust tenants, vulnerable groups and young people in a direct and indirect manner in reducing the prices in the markets that leak into all prices. It would be almost possible for people with extra financial resources to invest in something that is truly a source of value here, employment opportunities, and homes to be left alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u6	A respectable president. In the United States, we've had no contracts for almost three years or since the end of 2019. According to the Icelandic pro pilot's team, it seems that the policy at the Ministry of Economic Affairs is being taken by the U.S. National Guard pilots the same way that a court court of air management took place. It seems that the main issue is pilots' arts, which the Treaty Committee of the State does not agree with the laws on the rights and duties of public employees and connects the procedure that made such a decision in the case of the U.S. Air Forces. The FIA Convention Committee, the Fégá of Icelandic pilots, believes that this is a fundamental problem, since pilots'professions are based on reasons other than other professions. The pilots'agelist is based on flight security, and it is thought that by their delinquency, flight security is simply a danger, since U.S. airport pilots often have to make difficult decisions during difficult times, and the agelist is holding their hand around the pilot in the face of difficult decisions. Flight is the safest way to travel, but the success is based on a tireless security process. According to Icelandic professional fliers'records that fliers can cancel flights when they believe the situation is a threat to security, can cancel their jobs if they are sick or too tired without fear of being fired or punished, and are not afraid to report accidents if necessary. The cost of a pilot is also ensured by this system because long-term policies are always more successful in business than in short-term risks. Therefore, pilots' age lists are important safety issues and even more important in the case of the U.S. National Guard pilots, who often work under extreme stress, are in the process of saving lives at stake and flying in extreme conditions. I'm the highest. Minister of finance and Minister of Justice to listen to the U.S. National Guard pilots.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u7	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A council leader left green for coming and having a word with me about selling to the public in Iceland Bank. As you can see, that sale did not work out as best it could, and the process is now for a study of the State Review Board and the Federal Commission of the Secret Bank. We at the government stand called from the first day after a thorough investigation of the methodology for sales, implementation, and then legal and political responsibilities. This is done, not by SEC or by State Review, but by the Federal Commission of the Council. Regarding our demand, it was repeated on the part of the executives that it is not convenient for a case to be handled at two places at once, so the conclusion of the Commission and the National Review, which are actually two places at once. It has now been found that while we wish to wait, the government itself is calling for legal opinions from a law firm that may well have come to advise on the sale of property items. So it is reasonable to assume that a state law firm is one of the subjects of the study that is taking place today. Because of how frequent it is. A senator has been on the level and that the process is transparent and open, I would like to ask first: Does he feel that, along with an independent investigation, the government is ordering and publishing public opinions from a law firm that came to counsel the sale? Second: So he considers something to be a failure to do what is right. The Commission and monitoring committee will initiate the preparation of a decision to cancel the order of the investigator when it is established that the existing organisations will only take care of its specific parts and arrive, e.g. nothing into the political and moral responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helga Vala the daughter of Helgadóttir for a request to have a word with me here, and I find this a very interesting performance in the council. First, I will say that I take my heart to heart, and I have said it first from this place and from beyond, that this sale did not go along as well as it had been. We are, I think, absolutely agree on that and not just me and what. A senator holds more senators in this hall. Therefore there is great need, that I may say this once more, to roll with every stone in this matter. On the other hand, I wait, like the rest of this hall, on the result of their work as well as the State Reconnaissance and SEC, what comes out of the opinion and investigation that is going on there. I've held that Government Accounting is the Senate Intelligence Agency, which is important for us to make use of ourselves. As shown in endless talks, we trust her, and it will be important to get that conclusion sooner than later. I think I've called attention and mentioned in the symposium that a committee of inquiry, if set up, will always need more time. But because of him. A senator asks if I believe that the government calls for legal opinion from a law firm I cannot take a stand on it here, so they say. However, an investigation by the State Review Board and the case of the Federal Commission shows that there are other stones to consider, and there is no reason to stop. The administrative and monitoring committee will begin preparation for that work as I've told you before. But I know why. As with the rest of us, the committee is waiting for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u9	A respectable president. A domestic situation in Iceland is a big deal, and there is an emergency because of the lack of supply and the increase in prices. All of us need a roof over our heads, and having a home is our own human right. In recent years, communities and governments have underestimated the need for housing. This has resulted in a tremendous increase in apartment prices and rent rents. In the past 12 months, housing prices have been reported to have increased by 22%. As a result, young people who are buying their first apartment are in debt and have been helped by many to finance the purchases. Dedicated people do not have the power to promote economic growth. The same applies to tenants. More than one quarter of tenants are paying more than 40% of their rented provisions. According to some reports, the situation may be good for the average, but averages may not be left in the asparagus. We must stop accepting poverty by using averages. We must acknowledge together that in the days of poverty, we have failed, and we must do better. The domestic problem will not be solved in one day, for it will take several years to build new apartments. If tenants and young buyers can't wait, they can't wait. This trend must be taken by the General Assembly immediately by specific measures. We in Gang of the People want to see the rent roofs and they're temporary arrangements. We also need to assist especially those who have just arrived into the apartment market. We have to do something. We cannot watch the out - of - control market manipulate the livelihood of our families in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u10	V.E.G. President. There are over 300 applicants on international protection who will be eliminated from Iceland within the next few days. At Channel 2 this morning, the highest expression was made. The minister of justice in that either he has extremely limited knowledge of the case group or he was deliberately wrong. First, the minister claimed that the Icelandic government had little authority to protect these individuals from international cooperation, any rule. He did not say, though, what rule rule would be such that the hands of the Icelandic government were so maligned, and there is no international or European rule against the government that local governments forbids them to take on flight. Second, the minister said that he could not enter certain issues and change the rules, which would create legal uncertainty and extreme instability. This is an interesting position with the minister who himself has provided a bill for the change of foreigners and intends to change the rules of the game. Well, then it's got the highest. The Minister of Justice is authorized to change the judicial requirement of foreigners, as everyone knows. Third, the highest. Ministers to people with international protection in Greece have the same conditions as the Greeks. That's so wrong, you know. President. It has repeatedly confirmed the judicial committee of foreigners in its decisions. There is access control that basic services, welfare services in Greece, and the legal rights of people are not satisfied. Greek legislation is the difference between refugees and this at the highest level. Minister of Justice to know. In view of specific reasons, the U.S.A., a foreign agency that conducts this important case is under the minister of justice, and he has the authority to order the Agency to take the applications of people who came here at a certain time during the time of the crowning virus epidemic. You see, the minister has been responsible for this series of issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u11	President. Communications and cooperation between the northern countries, including in the region of the Northern Council, the United States has naturally looked very recently from Russia's progress, from its invasion in Ukraine, and from its threat to other European countries. There are revised communications with Russia, increased ties with the Baltic States, and, of course, emphasis on defense, national defences as well as national defences in the entire North countries. Now both Swedes and Finns have formally applied for involvement in the Atlantic Community. These two nations, like Iceland and Norway, have had an additional part of the Union, throughout the EEA Convention. Sweden and Finns have thus participated in NATO exercises, and they do not come to decision-making or fully enjoy the safety of membership. In times of trial, these countries prefer to take the step to the full, ensuring a seat at the table rather than to continue their half - value. They want to be competent participants, do their part, and enjoy the full cost of membership. You can learn from this, Mr. President. It is clear that NATO-Seglia and Find will change the balance between these nations and the European Union, and non-NATO, Iceland and Norway, in NATO and the European Union. Only Denmark has been a competent participants at both fronts, some of the main points of cooperation. This situation will be changed when NATO Company and the area becomes realized, with all likelihood that communication between the five nations will take some note of it. However, the decision to make a special application of NATO is based on extensive consultations after a few weeks of discussion. It is possible to react rapidly when conditions in the nations require that professionalness or essential political discussions be excluded. The European Union plays a key role in the world scene we live in and will live in. [[The president calls.]] Iceland's economists call out, yelling, that we reevaluating our foreign policy with a view to reaching out for member countries with the European Union. That is the wise course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u12	A respectable president. The social security system is about 40%. That means about 120,000 bucks is missing. increase to disability and the elderly each month. If a personal discount had followed a pay number, it would be paid at about 350,000. tax and tax-inademity pay, as the people's party has fought for it. It costs some 720 million to pay 90,000 dollars to pensioners. $1 bill, which is equal to a sale fee for the last sale of Iceland Bank. If we take all the cost we have paid on the bank, 2.1 billion, we could give $24,000. - I'll pay you right away. In Iceland, the elderly in social security have not received a cent from the government for the entire Covid period. No, for justice for them does not exist in this government dictionary because it is busy with everything else, e.g. A bank sale to the chosen and to do with the rich even more rich. Some 200 disabled persons are rushed to a nursing home, which is nothing more than a mental and physical torture program. The demand and need for health care in Iceland increase each year, waiting for services to be too long and causing lasting physical and mental damage. An elderly person with 450,000 K. cost of medical care last year, which has reached $350,000. the cost of this year asks how he should pursue a minimal pension. Anxiety, depression, fatigue, hopelessness, insomnia, starvation, and drug shortages are among those that afflict people in the social security system. These people are under stress, and they are often very close to their health. A 13 - year violation of property uptake on the social security remuneration system will only be returned four years ago to the guilty. The worst put in the penitent social security system is apparently a wide range of books on this government and the best way to break human rights and not to enjoy justice or fair. No, there's only one solution for this government on all of this and there's a reevaluation of the social security system without putting a dollar in it. The government's message to the public insurance people is clear: mend the jam chair, your time has not come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u13	Mr. President. The Foreign Affairs Committee had a special visit last week to Tallinn and Helsinki, and you can find other opportunities for the meeting of the Committee to go abroad and meet with what we met. We started Tuesday and met with the Estonian Foreign Affairs Committee and Foreign Minister and then had a good meeting in the Internet Security Center, the second - to - second online security of NATO, Tallinn. Then there was the big moment on Wednesday morning when we met with a foreign press committee. It was the class in which the 17 members of the Finnish State Committee were present in 16 of 17 cases of unique importance, and it showed how important they felt that the Icelandic Foreign Commission was coming to them on that great day, which was the day Finland formally applied to enter the Atlantic Alliance, in NATO. We know this process and this much discussion. Also, the Commission was meeting in a panoramic area of multitasking, located in Helsinki, and is a cooperating project of NATO and the European Union. It was unique, and it was obvious that Finnum was relieved after that decision. On that same day, Sweden also sought entry into NATO. It is clear that the Northern Foreign Policy and NB-8, where the Northern Nations and the Baltic States are in cooperation, will change much at the entry of Finn and Sweden into NATO, and this is what we need to consider in our context. I welcome the applications of these friends of ours in NATO, who will divide us immensely here in northern Europe in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u14	V.E.G. President. ON THE news, not long ago, the need for bed space in 2040 would be twice as much as a new Lands Hospital on Ring Road. This is according to a report published by the Department of Health. It was noted that there were flashes of light in the air as a result of wars that could further delay the structure. This tragic conflict also affects other plans, such as the construction of a nursing home. Here on our beautiful land, the land of Rhines shakes. Of course, you hope that nothing bad will happen, but it's always good to have it under your skin. What if transportation is disturbed, both in the air and on the ground? Are we prepared for this? Is the hospitals outside the southwest corner thus prepared, and health institutions as a whole are ready? We also have a backup hospital in Akureyri. Does it fill the conditions of being a relief hospital? What about airports? Can airports take on increased air traffic? We have a defined backup airport in the country. Are They Living Up to Their Name? What conditions do they need to meet so that everything is as it should be? V.E.G. President. These are many important questions that we need to know, since health care professionals such as this one is not likely to be able to be better handled today. It is not always possible to rely on their well - being. I urge the government to inform the nation carefully what the plan is. It's not something that's going to work out. It's much more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u15	President. Suicide is the most common cause of death among young Icelandic men. Some time ago, it was a traffic accident. Just before a weekend, I drove east of the mountain, and on the Hellish River is the city of the Catacomb that shows the number of dead in traffic accidents during the year. Now in the middle of the year, the number is two. In that same drive, when I was a teenager, I was afraid we would come to the sign and see if the number would have gone up that most of the time. At times, she went up to 201⁄230. Later, at the point where society rejected the physical laws of nature, we lost so many people in preventable accidents. Traffic safety was taken firmly with defined capital, manpower, and defined objectives. Moreover, driving accidents, deaths, and accidents began to decline rapidly. President. Many suicides are preventable. Yet, there has been a similar positive development when it comes to them. There has been little or nothing that has changed for decades. Each year, we lose about 40 people in this way in Iceland, including children. An agreed 2018 operation program was proposed to establish a new knowledge and development centre for the event, violence, and suicide prevention to set up a model for similar institutions abroad. Experts felt that such a center was a good reason to complete the action planned. With it, the money and the men would be assigned to the jury. President. I'm the highest. Health Minister to the amendment and suggest that the plan will now be revised, it is up to its years, and the actions of cost-distinguished, the priorities, and the permanent funding set up by the secretary to set up this promised centre and is the groundwork for reducing the incidence of suicide in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-24.u16	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to the bill in terms of changing income tax laws, social security laws and housing laws (improvement measures for inflation). The committee has discussed the matter and has brought some visitors to their home. At the same time, the commission received reviews on the subject. All of this is attributed to the leading party of the greater part, and I refer to it as a document regarding visitors and envelopes. I'd like to add that in addition to this, the Committee received memos from the Department of Wet and Notes, as well as financial and economic data. As a review, the bill is designed to reduce the impact of inflation on the vitality of society's most vulnerable groups, which are expected to be the worst affected by rising inflation. The bill consists of three changes aimed at the target mentioned above. First, it is the payment of a special child benefits of $20,000. with each child in those cases where income-related child reforms are determined to be added to the pressures of public pay on individuals in 2022. Second, there is an increase in terms of social security and social assistance laws by 3% from June 1, 2022. Finally, there is an increase of 10% in housing improvements from June 1, 2022, and a retrospective increase in home recovery of 3% from January 1, 2022. These are the main points of the bill. Regarding the review of the Committee, a greater proportion of them feel that it is appropriate to address some comments in the reviews received by the Commission, which otherwise make comments available on the II Parliament's website. In view of the greater part, it is important to be careful not to add further to social expansion, but to make effective measures and ensure that they reach groups of people who are sensitive to inflation, as is done with the bill. The majority are directed to the government to keep a close eye on the economic progress and influence on the most efficient and vulnerable groups of people who are the most vulnerable to growth and inflation. The Committee reviewed the potential effects of increasing inflation on young people who have recently purchased property. The burden of unfavourable loans and loans with variable interest rates may increase in growing growth conditions. Young, wealthy people can badly protect themselves from the rising financial burden of mortgages. The majority stress that the Ministry of Economics especially monitors the impact of inflation on this group of people and will take action if necessary. The microengineering League points out that the proposed adjustment of the legislation to a 11% decline rate of value from January 1, 2022 is contrary to the regulations of the law No. 75/2016, which included 9% impairment rate, and therefore, in effect, hides in a retrospective manner. The majority of the data shows that in section 4 of Figures 1.mg. 30. g. Refuse to Save Your Children, No. 75/2016, it is recommended that a minister be authorized by Regulation to consider the limits of holiday and the limitations of the budget. 17th par. The law. The majority point out that the bill is involuntary and does not involve retrospective impairment. One thing that the members of the committee repeated to the visitors in this matter was to ask and second - guessing as much information as we can about the fact that no one should be exposed to unexpected retrospective impairments because of these laws. The committee feels that they have been assured that they should not. I think it's important to say that the committee asked about this because it's what we're afraid of every time we're changing the social security law that's supposed to be in order, something unexpected happens. We feel that we have searched for any doubt that such things can be found in this bill. The majority suggest a 2 mg change. b-joints 3. The bill, that recalculation and correction of housing improvements should be temporary for January 1 through May 31, 2020. The greater part estimates that the change has been made to eliminate any doubt that the final housing improvement should be adopted according to the standard 25th and 26. legislation on housing benefits when tax returns for the year 2022 are available in the coming year. The review of the National CREEP says that the increases proposed by the bill will be carried out and payment made at the latest on July 1. While the Agency may be the subject of the legislation as soon as possible, it will still be the responsibility for the Agency to raise up. The majority of the items are included in the indication and suggest a change of 2.g. the bill, that the pay under the article will be carried out no later than July 1, 2022, but it will continue as a result of an increase from June 1, 2022. This is a practical point under the review of the National Insurance Agency. The majority, though, stress that payment will be done as soon as possible. All the work of the Committee has, in effect, taken care of this matter rapidly, both through the Committee's work but through the council, but carefully review all the regulations of the bill just so that it can be resolved as soon as possible. I think I can allow myself to say here that this has been a complete unity within the committee. So I'd like to reiterate that although this is a way of putting it in that payment should be done no later than July 1st, it is important to speed up payment as soon as possible. My hope is that this will come as a payment if the law will be accepted very soon. However, there is evidence that it will not be a month's match, but it will be in June. Other forms of the greater part are technical and are not intended to have material influence, but they can be considered at a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee than I have ever explained about changes that have some material impact. Under this opinion, write along with the one listed here, who is an executive, w. Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, president of the Economic and Business Committee, H Merdín Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Héðinsson, Ingi In Kristinsson and Óli Björn Kárason. I look forward to today's discussion on this subject, and I hope we can make it legal later today.
